from young people demanding climate justice to minorities demanding a seat at the table and brave europeans risking their own safety to help migrants at our common borders.
this parliament has declared a climate emergency.
let’s raise the bar for climate action and the protection of biodiversity, and let’s earn the title as guardian of the treaties, when the commission fails to fulfil this role.
negative impact on the environment and fisheries.
for ordinary people, for the electricity system, for competitiveness and, ultimately, for the environment.
the various chemicals in our environment, poor air quality and micro-particles affect the incidence of cancer.
this is essential to create or restore a climate of trust, which we see every day as necessary and sometimes damaged.
there is also a need to create a favourable environment for media freedom, which includes safeguarding the safety of journalists and protecting them from threats, including online.
yesterday’s signature of the ‘joint declaration for a dialogue on environment, climate action and sustainable development’ is testimony to your commitment to preserving the environment and to combating the climate crisis.
in terms of biodiversity, colombia is a world leader, so this joint declaration is fundamental to achieving our common global climate objectives.
latin america has shown that it has increased life expectancy, that it has increased its middle class, that it has also been able to increase, as never before, coverage in health and education, that it has managed to transition to market economies where there is private investment in infrastructure, in energy, and where we are seeing the concept of multilatinism grow, in our own region and in the world.
thanks also to the investment of this continent and hand in hand with national investors in the midst of the pandemic, we are moving towards the energy transition, from 0.2% of our energy matrix in non-conventional renewables to close to 20% which, added to the water source, puts us with one of the cleanest energy matrices on the planet.
but we have also made bets so that in the construction of peace with legality indigenous communities can contract directly with the state for projects that are relevant in their environment.
and together we must tackle the climate crisis that weighs us down.
if we don't act, the effects of the climate crisis will be irreversible.
that's why our nation, which only accounts for 0.6 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, but is one of the most vulnerable nations to the effects of the climate crisis, was there in glasgow to say that we are going to be carbon neutral by 2050, and to reduce 51 percent of our emissions by 2030, and that this year, not 2030, this year we will declare 30 percent of our territory as protected area to show that commitment and to validate that quick and timely action is an example for everyone and that if a country that only accounts for that 0.6 percent of emissions does that, so should the nations that have contributed the most to this crisis.
we've joined those efforts with the planting of 180 million trees, with the energy transition, with clean mobility, and with a political act worthy of admiration amidst so many debates that are characteristic of politics today.
we got unanimous approval of a climate action law that positions colombia.
today, dear members of parliament, we are here to tell you that the changes colombia has undergone have also been the result of its entry into the multilateral environment.
it accompanies us in the implementation of peace with legality and it accompanies us also in the climate action agenda.
the solution to the climate crisis requires latin america as that place that houses the amazon, and that has more than 70 percent of the world's wastelands, and that has underwater riches and that is also a pantry.
today we must defend a sustainable and responsible social policy.
they have a young and dynamic human potential and they have unlimited possibilities on renewable energy.
first, an ambitious global gateway africa-europe investment package taking into account global challenges such as climate change and the current health crisis.
– madam president, africa is our neighbour, africa is our partner, and both our continents face exceptional challenges posed by the health crisis, economic recession and climate change, as well as population growth and demographic trends.
the work to achieve the 17 sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda must be intensified and qualified majority voting in the european council on human rights violations must be applied.
sustainable peace and security also requires the involvement of all sections of the population.
we know that those who contribute least to climate change are those who suffer most from its consequences.
the fact that climate change is reinforcing inequalities and injustices that already existed is not new.
we must be more courageous in taking action based on the fact that a fair perspective is a crucial prerequisite for building a sustainable future.
the climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time, and we know that women and girls are being hit harder by the crisis, but they are also showing leadership in the climate response.
women are also underrepresented in climate and environmental issues.
in order to succeed in climate change mitigation and contribute to climate justice, gender equality and women's rights must be taken into account.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
by integrating the gender perspective, we will be able to accelerate and strengthen a climate change that is sustainable and fair for all, because climate and gender must go hand in hand.
we're going to be at the forefront of a safe and secure work environment.
the fact that individuals choose to collaborate, to organize and start associations and organizations to pursue their cause, to influence their environment, or indeed just because they share an interest, gives us power, meaning, knowledge and context.
in effect, putin and russia have been using social media and digital platforms and paying extremist parties, left and right, to create a communication and information environment that has sown the seeds of this war.
just as europe will be stronger by achieving energy independence, we will be stronger with a common asylum and migration policy, and i therefore invite the council to agree a roadmap with the european parliament, a timetable for the swift adoption of the entire asylum and migration package.
a german journalist has testified to the russian ambassador raising his glass and saying: "congratulations to the german government, this is a good day for russian energy policy, a good day for russia".
russia has invaded ukraine, and the eu has put itself in an extremely dangerous situation, as the transition to renewable energy has made us dependent on russian gas.
this is what happens when you subordinate everything to unthinkable climate goals.
a strong, stable and competitive union must be self-sufficient in planned and affordable energy.
it is time to stop the climate nonsense, to stop the nuclear phase-out and to invest in new modern technologies, efficiency improvements, preparedness and innovation.
it is simply a prerequisite for a sustainable and peaceful world.
batteries do play an increasing role in our lives to ensure that appliances and services used daily, like mobility and energy storage, work.
the european batteries regulation is a new type of environmental legislation model that follows the product’s lifecycle from manufacturing to consumption and all the way to recycling into new products.
with the new regulation, we will have more sustainable batteries that require responsibility for both human rights and the environment.
their carbon footprint has to be declared in a special passport and the material has to be recycled.
a circular economy is a win for us and for the climate, and a decarbonised future requires sustainable batteries.
it's been a little over a week since the ipcc published its latest assessment, which is the most comprehensive assessment of the impacts of climate change to date.
climate policy is security policy.
let's take it seriously once and for all and use this environmental action programme to really implement a real green transition.
the climate crisis is a race against the clock, and soon the clock will be ticking.
the eu is the world's largest economy and the world's most powerful environmental organisation.
i am a great european, and i am proud of the eu's work to save the climate, protect biodiversity, and secure access to clean water in lakes, seas and rivers.
without international cooperation, we will be unable to tackle the common environmental challenges we share globally or the problems we must solve locally.
today it is impossible to speak of our joint european environmental work without taking the russian invasion of ukraine as a starting point.
a free ukraine will be an important partner in developing eu environmental work as well.
the textile sector has a major impact on climate, the environment and human rights.
my questions to the commissioner responsible are as follows: will the strategy include a binding climate target that includes all emissions from our consumption?
a comprehensive european protein strategy is also needed to make our livestock farming more sustainable and less dependent.
the existing market for financial instruments directive and the central securities depositories regulation apply in a traditional, account-based environment.
to ensure adequate regulatory and supervisory requirements for this regime, we checked in detail which rules from both pieces of legislation would also be essential for application in a dlt environment.
what works in a limited testing environment does not necessarily work in a broader context.
the warnings of global warming are based on solid research, as is clear from the first part of the un climate report.
one is that, unfortunately, science is discovering new risks and dangers with climate change.
the energy crisis has created cold in another, very concrete way.
europe needs more green energy, more renewable energy, faster investment in this.
today's decision on europe's energy infrastructure will facilitate and accelerate this green transition and is absolutely necessary.
we can already see how ukraine was connected to europe's energy system a few weeks ago, and that is good, it creates greater stability and security.
we have to get rid of russian gas so that putin doesn't have control over our energy supply, over the heat in our homes or over whether our industry is going to work or stand still today or tomorrow.
but we must rid ourselves of all gas, no matter where it comes from, if we are to have any chance of meeting the climate goals.
europe's countries need to cooperate more to secure carbon-free energy supplies.
don't waste any more money on yesterday's gas lines.
let us move forward towards a european, sustainable, modern, high-tech, carbon-free energy production and distribution.
and this means fundamentally rethinking our energy policy.
the revision of the trans-european network for energy (ten-e regulation) offers an important opportunity for the eu to give priority and funding to future-proof europe’s energy infrastructure in a cost-effective manner in line with the green deal.
our future lies in renewable generation.
madam president, the past months have shown the importance of a strong, resilient and crisis—resistant energy market.
europe will, with this agreement, promote and invest in clean energy that will be crucial for europe to reach our climate goals.
however, in the next revision, i would wish for europe to also value the need for low—carbon nuclear and include financing for small modular reactors in ten-e. this will be needed for our energy, for our climate, and for our european security.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013).
it is an important matter, as repairing broken or damaged products can save consumers money by helping them to postpone making replacement purchases, while bringing benefits to the environment.
i also believe it should go together with the importance of a sound business environment.
we therefore welcome the commission's presentation a week ago of the circular economy package of proposals, in particular the proposal for a regulation on the ecodesign of sustainable products, based on the seven-res rule i have just mentioned.
in general, we have a serious problem with waste management, also in the european union.
it's not just an environmental issue, it's an ethical one, too.
the circular economy will be a competitive advantage not only for our industry, but above all for the environment.
it goes without saying that the way we live and produce and buy in europe is not sustainable.
an important step towards more sustainable production and consumption is the right to repair.
sustainability doesn’t always equal reparability.
instead, we must incentivise manufacturers over time to adopt new business models, which are a win—win for consumers and for the environment.
as a result, europe is the third largest producer of e-waste we produced over 12 million tonnes of e-waste in 2020. moreover, it is projected that by 2030, this number could double.
an effective right to repair has enormous potential both environmentally by reducing waste and economically by increasing the competitiveness of businesses and stimulating innovation or job creation.
the average european produces almost 16 kilograms of e-waste per year, and we have long been demanding a well-functioning right to repair.
this is a direct attack on the environment and on people's wallets, who have to buy new copies all the time.
if europe is to succeed in meeting its climate goals, we must move from a 'use and throw' society to a more circular economy with sustainable growth.
electronic waste is the fastest growing waste stream in the world.
it's a huge waste of resources and an environmental disaster that the world cannot afford.
today, more and more companies, both large and small, are working to develop new sustainable products and services with growth as their driver, with repair and rental services becoming an increasingly important part of this.
using resources more efficiently and extracting more value from what is produced is good for the climate and it is good for entrepreneurship and creates more jobs.
but to take every opportunity to want to stop growth and shame those who consume will rather stifle than help the climate.
prohibitions, taxes and new bureaucracies are not the answer, but we must break down barriers to trade and remove tariffs on low-carbon goods and open up the market for services and rental, remove the bureaucracy of recycling and clear the labelling jungle so that consumers can trust that what they are buying is truly sustainable.
so let's make the right-to-repair law a success in climate change and not another example of political greenwashing.
despite all the flashing warning lights about inefficiency and waste, parliament's main criticism is that the gender balance is not sufficiently even.
since the beginning of the 21st century, cambodia has had a preferential trade agreement with the eu under the 'everything but arms' programme, targeted at some of the world's poorest countries, to facilitate trade and cooperation and to support sustainable development.
firstly, by environmental degradation through the construction of a wall on the polish-belarusian border running through protected areas, including one of europe’s last primeval forests, which is causing a severe environmental impact on local wildlife.
i welcome the important support the government is showing to the ukrainian refugees, but that doesn’t give the national conservative government of poland the right to discriminate others and totally disregard the common responsibility we have taken in the eu for our environment and climate.
it must be costly for a member state to violate human rights and cause environmental degradation in our union.
countries that are gradually falling into the shadows of poland and hungary are restricting the freedoms we know are essential for strong and sustainable democracies: media freedom, minority rights and civil society opportunities.
we simply cannot control our own energy mix without the help of the eu.
putting those words in the context of today, the spread of disinformation by far—right turkish media are attacks on european democracy... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, so we have a report on the climate change and defence roadmap.
a report that calls on the eu to support states in developing their capabilities to tackle environmental crime, further enhance operational effectiveness by reducing the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of military missions and operations and embark on a path towards climate neutrality by 2050 and to mainstream, of course, climate and environmental issues into the ordinary military training system at tactical and strategic levels.
madam president, this house constantly debates the rights of migrants, the climate crisis and woke gender issues.
the carbon border adjustment mechanism is one of the most important tools for us in the eu to reduce gas emissions in non-eu countries.
the one—billion—dollar question is how to spend the estimated eur 1 billion per year in cbam revenues 2026 to 2030. we can decide to continue as business as usual through adding it to the next generation eu loans, or we can try to be revolutionary through investing it in the next generation eu and global citizen through new climate protection measures in developing countries.
the reinvestment of revenues in climate resilience would set a precedent for the future cbam systems.
it is in the interest of our planet, vulnerable communities and the eu that revenues from such systems are used for climate actions rather than for continued public expenditures reductions.
madam president, when witnessing the climate debate, it sometimes feels a little bit like an auction.
as negotiator of the ets, i have seen this behaviour as well, with the greens wanting to remove protection from carbon leakage as early as possible, not taking into account all the pathways looks like.
and you can’t just tap your finger and get new carbon—free industry in place over a day.
the outcome from the environment committee, unfortunately, does not do that.
it’s just going to hurt european competitiveness, threaten our jobs and risk increased emissions outside of europe.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013).
we're seeing skyrocketing electricity and energy prices, an inflation we haven't seen in many, many years.
now you also want the swedes to pay for other countries' skyrocketing energy and electricity prices through the social fund.
i wonder, is there any limit to your generosity with swedish tax dollars and your naive climate dreams?
a great deal to transform our destructive relationship with the environment and natural resources and curb climate change.
this is a big transformation that requires the effort of everyone and offsets like the social climate fund so that no one is left behind.
the scientific evidence for the climate crisis and the examples we see every day are staggering.
a just green transformation, based on innovation and technology, is not only the only way to tackle the climate and energy crisis, but also an opportunity to modernise and strengthen our economies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner timmermans, in order to achieve concrete environmental objectives, it is essential to create the conditions for important sectors of european industry, which are very exposed to international competition, to remain competitive throughout the transition phase and thus be able to make the necessary investments, avoiding that their production is replaced by production outside the eu, which does not meet our environmental and social standards at all.
pollution does not stop at borders.
we have been working on these two dossiers in an unjustifiable hurry, without taking the slightest account of the changed economic, geopolitical and energy conditions, which are not even remotely comparable to those existing when the european commission drew up the proposals.
the proposals that parliament has so far only succeeded in making worse, by competing for the most media-friendly climate objective, by following a logic completely detached from reality, by protecting only certain special interests at the expense of the real interests of the vast majority of our citizens and our businesses.
the ideological slogan of saving the world risks irreparably damaging the competitiveness of key sectors of european industry without any overall environmental benefits.
i have not met a single entrepreneur who has not shown himself to be more than supportive of environmental protection.
let's carefully reassess the entire climate legislative package before we do irreparable damage to our society without... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, commissioner timmermans and minister zacharopoulou – congratulations minister, and welcome back to the european parliament.
yes, for almost three years, i have stood here warning of the consequences of a downright unrealistic and naive climate policy.
i have warned that the targets and the planned economy methods would not lead to substantial emission reductions, but instead to skyrocketing electricity and energy prices, major geopolitical risks, power shortages, waste of taxpayers' money and declining competitiveness of industry.
this time a social climate fund.
- report by jessica polfjärd, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2018/842 on binding annual greenhouse gas emission reductions by member states from 2021 to 2030 as part of their contribution to climate action to meet the commitments under the paris agreement (com (2021) 0555 - c9-0321/2021 - 2021/0200 (cod)) (a9-0163/2022).
- report by ville niinistö on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2018/841 as regards the scope, simplification of compliance rules, setting of member states' 2030 targets and commitments to collectively achieve climate neutrality by 2035 in the field of land use, forestry and agriculture, and regulation (eu) 2018/1999 as regards the improvement of monitoring, reporting, progress monitoring and review, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, of regulation (eu) 2018/841 [com (2021) 0404 - c4-0559/2021 - 2021/2021 (cod) 0169/1202) (agreement) ] as regards the proposal of the european parliament and of the council (eu) 2019/621 (agreement) on the enhancement of monitoring, reporting, progress monitoring and review, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, of regulation (eu) 2018/1999 concerning the classification of vehicles with regard to the reduction of emissions from light commercial vehicles and the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the reduction of emissions from light commercial vehicles and the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles with regard to the introduction of new vehicles of the first generation of the first generation of vehicles of the first generation of the first generation of the first-
executive vice-president of the commission.
– mr president, i shan’t repeat what i have already said this morning, but the one thing i need to say again is that we need all these proposals if we stick to a legal obligation to be climate neutral by 2050. that’s why this package needs to be complete, consistent and especially socially fair.
this includes stronger co2 standards for cars; to reach climate neutrality by 2050, nearly all cars on europe’s roads need to be zero-emission by then.
it is consistent, especially if this parliament wants to dress down emissions trading for fuels and road transport, it must deliver car standards that bring affordable zero-emission mobility to citizens.
our car industry is the best in the world by a large margin, but it needs to be zero-emissions.
whatever study you look at and whether you include car production or not, electric cars are the affordable and sustainable solution.
they will take six times the energy to produce compared to the battery in a car.
i’m deeply aware of the impact on jobs in components and fuels for combustion engines, but the answer isn’t to push solutions that are inconsistent with industry plans, inconsistent with consumers choices, inconsistent with repowereu goals to make the best use of energy and with the simple desire of citizens to breathe clean air.
this parliament rightly puts more emphasis on carbon farming and the carbon removals that this generates, for example, by improving soil and re-wetting lands.
the report adds new targets for wetlands and grasslands as carbon sinks.
that’s a massive opportunity for farmers to be part of the solution to the climate and biodiversity crises.
by making farming sustainable, including via carbon farming, we’re not destroying farming, we’re saving farming.
our priorities are fully on future renewable solutions such as green, steel and hydrogen, and the limited means we have in the innovation and modernisation funds should be directed there and nowhere else.
to this end we are working tirelessly to move forward work on all the dossiers in a coherent way, and this in all the relevant council formations, namely environment, energy, transport and economy.
first, the need for ambitious, effective reform that strengthens the role of the european union in defining the global rules for an ecological transition, but also a reform that leaves no one behind and protects the european citizen in an era of uncertainty and sharp increase in the cost of living.
this package and the social climate fund in particular will help us to reduce the eu's dependence on fossil fuels while allowing us to support business and individual investment in renewable energy and our efforts in energy efficiency.
a year ago we came together in this house to adopt the european climate act.
it was a historic step in our joint effort to become the first climate-neutral continent.
i would like to remind my colleagues once again that this is also a huge opportunity for change, for sustainable development and for new green jobs.
the objectives of the climate law are set for the eu as a whole.
with this law, we are setting binding targets for all eu member states and a set of rules for the majority of all emissions in europe.
second, we are looking beyond 2030. for me, it has been crucial to link these objectives with the overall objective of climate neutrality, and we have now set out concrete steps for member states to take.
all countries and all sectors must contribute to climate action.
for the first time ever, we can build a strong majority to get all eu member states to commit to actually reducing their emissions.
we see it in forest communities where centuries of sustainable forestry meet new entrepreneurs and develop the bioeconomy.
we need to really step up the pace of climate change and raise our ambitions if we're going to even get close to the paris agreement.
however, so many of my colleagues in this parliament are doing everything possible at the moment, when we are about to make climate legislation concrete, to quickly turn it into a swiss cheese full of holes, full of cracks so that not everyone will take responsibility.
have you already forgotten that we are in a climate emergency?
have you already forgotten that less than two years ago, when we voted on the climate bill in parliament, we actually wanted to see a higher level of ambition than 55%?
european climate policy must be grounded in reality, but it must also be marked by hope.
2050 is our far-reaching time limit to become climate neutral.
it will not be easy, far from it, but to return to what i started this debate with, it is also a huge opportunity for lower emissions, for more and better jobs and for international competitiveness.
these are still important industries that contribute to jobs and growth throughout sweden, but today with a lower footprint on the climate, and they are actively working to reduce emissions.
that is why we have also felt it is so important to give all countries the opportunity to largely shape their own emissions reduction efforts.
we can build a strong majority to get all eu member states to commit to a binding target of actually reducing their emissions.
now more than ever we need to continue the work of breaking our dependence on russian energy.
there is only one way out of high energy prices in our member states and that is to become energy self-sufficient together and to accelerate the energy transition.
and here i want to highlight bioenergy and biogas, which together with wind and solar energy are an important alternative.
the biogas is completely renewable.
waste from agriculture and the food industry is recycled into heat for our homes and fuel for our cars.
concretely, the commission provides support to member states in implementing sustainable development goals pertaining to this area.
the eu now wants to force electric cars onto the market, arguing that this would dramatically reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
but either they are lying or they are ignoring the fact that the expensive and carbon-intensive manufacture of batteries, together with the eu's fossil-intensive energy mix, means that electric cars, like cars with combustion engines, emit carbon dioxide.
other countries are supplied with cheap energy, and so both emissions and growth will take place elsewhere.
banning the internal combustion engine will neither create prosperity nor improve the global climate.
climate policy is not governed by science and common sense.
– mr president, the left liberal majority in this house, led by centraliser-in-chief guy verhofstadt, seeks to abolish national vetoes, expand powers for the union in the areas of health, energy, defence and social and economic policy.
we set up rules and standards that reflect values important for people, health and the environment – and we are ready!
countries should therefore be able to continue to pursue an undisciplined budgetary policy and increase their debt levels only if they use climate action as a pretext.
madam president, the bickering about different parts of the eu’s climate laws is a distraction from the real issue, which is the climate laws as a whole.
with a share of 7% of global co2 emissions, the eu relies on large nations from other parts of the world to join in on the climate measures.
china and india currently depend on cheap energy like coal, oil and gas.
this means that we are subsidising their consumption and hurting our own economy, all while we’re not decreasing total global emissions.
the solution isn’t more unrealistic goal-setting and climate socialism, but investing in research, technology and innovation, instead of bankrupting both our citizens and our companies.
from the perspective of the femm committee, in which i am an opinion writer, we paid particular attention to the situation of children, who are very often victims of abuse in the online environment, and to improving the situation of women through obligations for internet service providers to prevent discrimination, combat violence and respond to user signals.
the commission nevertheless wants to convert our forest - our national treasure - into a carbon-producing reserve.
they base their proposal on the treaty's provisions on the prudent and rational use of natural resources and on a 1999 ruling by the court of justice of the european union that the commission can regulate environmental measures in forests.
the key now is to understand the value created by the social economy, to increase its visibility and to create a favourable environment for the social economy to flourish.
including nuclear and gas in sustainable investments is a step towards a gradual, non-ideological energy transition.
the union's energy self-sufficiency is a priority, as war and inflation have shown.
secure and affordable energy supplies mean fighting inflation, making our businesses more competitive and saving thousands of jobs.
the union's energy production mix with nuclear needs to be recalibrated.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
we have already shown the red card to nuclear energy and gas once before as the european parliament, and we must do so again.
taxonomy is an important tool for achieving climate goals, but the current proposal jeopardises the taxonomy's credibility.
green gas and nuclear energy are not the only things that are causing people to lose confidence in us.
and it is about more than the environmental aspect: questions from the world of work, from the social partners, from civil society.
we not only want the fundamental rights of the environment and of the people to be respected, but we also want and demand social progress.
this can only be done with a holistic approach to sustainability, involving trade unions and european civil society.
there's nothing sustainable about fossil energy.
there's nothing sustainable about fossil fuels.
it is only hypocrisy to pretend that it is, and it is hypocrisy that the liberals, the christian democrats and the moderates are now engaged in by putting greenhouse gases and 'greenwash' fossil natural gas in the eu taxonomy.
in its fervor for nuclear power it has been blinded to such an extent that it chooses to consider fossil energy to be sustainable.
it is the hesitation and the naivete of the fossil fuel industry that has brought us to the climate and geopolitical risk and crisis that we are in today.
i want to see less fossil energy in europe.
i don't want to classify gas as sustainable because we need new energy.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013).
but you've opened your eyes and you see that we need more nuclear power to meet our climate goals.
mr president, we all want to realise the transition to the green economy, we all want to pollute less, we all want to improve our energy efficiency, but we have to admit that reaching our climate targets is only possible if we use gas as a bridge technology and if we also use nuclear energy.
we are not imposing anything but we should allow member states to choose their own energy mix.
we can only realise the transition to a green economy, we can only reduce our energy dependency on russia if we support this delegated act on taxonomy.
we are in the midst of a climate emergency, facing an unprecedented energy crisis, but also an explosion in the cost of living.
and some in this house would like to see gas and nuclear, with their waste, painted green for over 200,000 years.
it is a waste of billions of euros on energy of the past when there is an urgent need to invest massively in renewable energy.
mr president, the development of renewable energies is a key element of the european union's energy policy.
but if we are really determined to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, we need gas and nuclear power.
there is no doubt that nuclear energy is emission-free and that the industrial technological capacity to produce hydrogen on a large scale requires gas installations.
in the case of natural gas, only new electricity production facilities that replace more polluting ones would be considered sustainable until 2030. as regards nuclear energy, only those plants which have a fund for their decommissioning and waste storage facilities are considered.
for all these reasons, and also in view of the energy, economic and social situation in which we find ourselves, i think that the commission's delegated act should be supported.
europe is in the midst of an energy crisis.
we need to re-think energy policy to get reasonable costs, but also, of course, to achieve our climate goals and to move away from europe's dependence on putin.
in this case, investment must be directed not only towards renewables and energy efficiency improvements, but also towards nuclear power and, in a transitional phase, gas under strict criteria.
to fight pandemics, to save the climate, to create space rules, or to protect human rights, we need multilateralism - organizations and structures where countries large and small can have their say.
while receiving subsidies, swedish citizens and businesses suffer from skyrocketing prices for food, energy, and fuel, among other things.
europe is in a deep energy crisis.
many households are struggling to cope with the cost of energy and food, the most basic of things.
at the same time, many energy companies are making huge profits.
if we succeed in this, we will not have to face a crisis like this again, because then we will have the green energy we need.
we have all agreed that we wish to strengthen and deepen our relationship with those regions in order to better address emerging needs and global challenges – be it climate change and biodiversity, the pandemic or peace and security.
parliament’s view is that this modernised agreement has the potential to enhance our political partnership since it covers crucial issues such as climate change, migration, and peace and security.
it is essential that we together fight climate change and put equality in the centre.
(initialed inaudible) ...banning, power tax, subsidies to renewable, politically appointed management at vattenfall.
i don't think it was a good idea to shut down nuclear power and destroy the world's best energy mix.
so they want to continue to punish nuclear energy as a source of energy.
if there's one thing we can be absolutely sure about global warming, it's that the risk of severe heatwaves is increasing.
there are many in this debate now who have highlighted the value of height preparedness and more climate adaptation.
that is good and important, but the most important of all is, of course, to slow down global warming.
do what you can to ensure that we collectively reduce the risks and consequences of global warming.
we also need to have a functioning environment for those who work in the aviation industry if this is to work.
we need more fossil-free energy in the future.
it is therefore pleasing to read the rapporteur's proposal for a high level of ambition for renewable energy.
we will need both more renewable energy and more nuclear energy if we are to survive the climate change and become independent of putin's gas.
unfortunately, we see that the left in parliament is engaged in climate elitism.
they want to make the transition more difficult by making nuclear power less attractive and by shutting down more of the major renewable energy sources - now that we are about to adopt the renewable energy directive.
bioenergy accounts for the majority of renewable energy in europe, where a quarter of bioenergy in turn comes from forests.
hydropower accounts for about one third of the eu's renewable electricity supply.
in the environment committee, the left has done everything it can to reduce the possibility of using these energy sources.
– madam president, high representative, colleagues, to counter chinese belligerence towards taiwan or others in the indo-pacific, we must learn the lessons from ukraine: don’t become dependent on cheap energy or exports; arm your allies before the enemy attacks; work with partners in the region as well as outside (the united states) to decouple from china and secure stability in the indo-pacific; strengthen our and taiwan’s economies by enacting new, mutually—beneficial trade and investment agreements; communicate clearly that any kinetic action against taiwan will have serious consequences; announce in advance that eu—china relations can never return to ‘business as usual’ if military action is taken by the ccp.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing people today who are in serious trouble because of the skyrocketing energy bills.
we must insulate the worst houses, we must put solar panels on them, and let us finally make use of that european price ceiling, as our belgian minister for energy, mr van der straeten, has asked.
madam president, commissioner, minister, inflation, driven by rising energy prices, is the main concern of europeans today, and we must continue to respond to it.
this should be a european response, articulated and based on solidarity, diversifying energy sources and reducing gas and electricity consumption.
the solutions include joint gas purchasing, the development of energy transport infrastructure, the focus on hydrogen as an important energy source and support measures for domestic and industrial consumers.
the price increase the explosion in energy and food prices is a burden on the population and the economy, and it threatens social cohesion.
firstly, a revenue ceiling as a basis for the deduction of the incidental profits of individual energy producers.
and thirdly, saving energy in a smart way.
because the most environmentally friendly, cheapest and safest energy is the energy we don't use.
at the same time, we need to push the energy union forward, rethink the energy market, massively expand renewable energy and infrastructure, and accelerate energy co-generation.
energy prices are skyrocketing in sweden and across europe.
of course we must rapidly expand renewable energy, but now put down your opposition to nuclear power.
nuclear power will be needed to achieve our climate goals, to break our dependence on gas and to ensure a stable energy supply in europe.
many people are watching this debate and now want to see us open up to nuclear energy too.
they aim for a sustainable asylum policy.
crises, climate, pandemics, russia's war in ukraine and now also an energy crisis - crises that require common solutions, political courage and clear leadership.
before winter, we need quick solutions to alleviate the insane electricity bills in our member states, but this must not mean that we pause the climate change.
the russian propaganda machine has also been very effective in energy policy.
we know that gazprom has financed environmental organizations with the aim of shutting down european energy production and increasing dependence on russian gas.
we know that the belgian environmentalist energy minister, who was previously a lawyer on the payroll of gazprom, now wants to shut down the country's nuclear power plant.
environmental groups in germany received tens of millions from russia to oppose energy extraction.
but what about the political centre that said that nord stream was a strictly commercial project and that the energy weapon would not be used by putin - is there self-examination there?
and when will the self-criticism and the will to improve come from a climate movement that has taken russian money?
when will the environmental left admit that their fight against nuclear power has weakened europe and made putin's aggression possible?
the head of the wto, dr ngozi okonjo-iweala, wrote to us and to the eu just last week that our most urgent, topical task is to ensure that all people have access to food and energy.
this is why achieving the un's 2030 sustainable development goals is a top priority, including through eu external trade policy.
for not only the war in ukraine and elsewhere, but also global warming and the under-supply of the majority of the world's population are distressingly real threats to people everywhere.
act now and no longer leave the price of food and energy to disrupted markets and supply chains.
we need to make sustainability the central benchmarking, with binding legal enforcement instruments.
however, in response to the effects of the energy crisis, war inflation and the general economic downturn, and to changes in the international environment, this action plan should primarily ensure the union's competitiveness and not the promotion of ideological ideas that are otherwise outside the scope of trade policy.
hungary is committed to the sustainability goals, the importance of environmental protection, human rights.
the eu is now going through the worst crisis in modern times: energy, inflation, growth, competitiveness, climate and sustainability challenges and russia's illegal invasion of ukraine.
now the eu must stand guard over free trade and, through international cooperation, work towards the eu's ambitious sustainability agenda and build resilience to deal with future crises.
it also contains an ambitious chapter on sustainable development and a clear commitment to the effective implementation of the paris agreement.
the sustainability chapter shall promote the conclusion of free trade agreements, not create additional obstacles that hamper already complex negotiations.
is it possible to negotiate a free trade agreement that has both far-reaching trade liberalisation and high sustainability requirements?
now that we have the agreement on the table, we can say that it is permeated by the objectives of the paris agreement, and that it promotes trade in climate-smart products.
trade policy is a tool for sustainability, and without trade we cannot have sustainable development.
closure and protectionism only make the world poorer and less sustainable.
as we have seen, trade has adverse effects on the environment, on human rights and sometimes on workers' rights.
and so, we welcome with great interest the issue of the sdg, the sustainable development chapter, but unfortunately, the issue of human rights is not in this sdg.
we will also include the possibility to apply, as a last resort, trade sanctions for material breaches of the paris climate agreement and the ilo fundamental labour principles.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the humanitarian situation following the catastrophic floods in pakistan and the climate crisis (2022/2837 ((rsp)).
this immediate response was facilitated by the long-standing cooperation between the eu and pakistan on disaster risk reduction, especially since the previous devastating floods in 2010. the tragic events in pakistan should remind us of the fact that 90% of all major natural disasters in the world today are connected to climate change.
according to the latest ipcc assessment report, 40% of the world population, notably in developing countries, is highly vulnerable because of climate change, with an increased risk of cyclones, droughts, floods, heat waves, infectious diseases, sea level rises and wildfires.
this is why we need to work more on prevention and aim towards an integrated climate and disaster risk reduction governance.
its call to action towards zero climate disasters by 2050 aims at reducing vulnerability, increasing risk management and early warning systems, and strengthening the resilience of communities.
the sooner we deal with disaster reduction, the more prepared we will be to save lives and livelihoods in future climate disasters.
the devastation has been what united nations secretary general guterres called ‘climate carnage’.
this flood has shown we need to do more to tackle climate change, not only respond to its humanitarian consequences.
thirdly, we need to work together to tackle the climate change challenge and support pakistan in creating climate resilient infrastructure to prevent future disasters.
the terrible floods in pakistan are, of course, a clear example of an extreme weather event in a warmer climate.
however, it is also, unfortunately, a clear example of an event where we can no longer just talk about climate adaptation.
what we're seeing now is the effect of all the greenhouse gas emissions since industrialization.
we must now stand up and take responsibility for these historic emissions.
the eu must now, during and ahead of cop 27, stand up for more funding for climate adaptation, but also clearly for the funding of loss and damage.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of mr jörgen warborn, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on sustainable marine fuels (fueleu maritime initiative) (com (2021) 0562 - c9-0333/2021 - 2021/0210 (cod)) (a9-0233/2022) and the report by mr ismail ertug, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the development of alternative fuels infrastructure (com (2021) 0559 - c9-0331/2021 - 2021/0322 (cod)) (a9-0234/2022).
europe takes the frontrunner position in tackling emissions by creating demand for sustainable fuels and fostering innovation in green propulsion technologies.
never before has any global power drafted such a comprehensive and efficient framework for tackling maritime emissions.
i am happy that after almost a year of in-depth dialogue with ports, ship-owners, trade unions, environmental organisations and fuel suppliers from all parts of europe, followed by intense negotiations in parliament, we now have a deal on the table.
on climate, most importantly, but not just setting the most extreme targets that might look good on paper.
safeguarding the maritime sectors competitiveness, and making sure there won’t be carbon leakage and jobs leaving europe.
in the negotiations in tran, my guiding principle was to ensure we get the biggest emissions savings possible per euro spent.
we do that with an effective scope targetting 90% of maritime co2 emissions while shielding the very smallest ship-owners and ports from massive economic and bureaucratic burdens.
we do it with the target-oriented design where we set the pathway forward with strict greenhouse gas limits, but without micromanaging ship-owners or forcing them into some kind of ‘one-size-fits-all’.
the deal before you ensures is that maritime climate targets are met rapidly and effectively, that europe becomes the benchmark for the rest of the world, that we actually change the way global shipping is powered, going green and making sure the innovation happens here.
i am reassured to hear such strong support for the road map we have drawn up between the committee on transport, the committee on industry and the committee on the environment.
this is the world's most ambitious maritime climate legislation.
it is the only comprehensive, feasible and truly concrete plan to dramatically reduce the climate footprint of shipping.
we are designing the rules so that shipping companies and ports can focus their resources on the actions that deliver the most climate benefits and the most value for money.
because that's how we're going to meet our climate goals quickly and efficiently.
that's how we ensure that european consumers don't have to bear the entire world's climate costs.
the commission's proposal for this year's decision focuses, for obvious reasons, on the consequences of russia's war in ukraine, not least the ongoing energy crisis.
it is important we step up our struggle to reach the sustainable development goals.
tonight, we have with us a young climate activist from kenya, elizabeth wathuti.
we were a few who met with her yesterday and talked to her about the millions of people who are literally on the front lines of the climate crisis right now, the climate catastrophe -- people who are at risk of starvation, people who don't have access to anything as obvious as clean drinking water, and mothers who walk a mile every day to at least try to dig up some water from otherwise dried-up waterways -- and about the fact that those who have caused the least emissions are now at risk of suffering the most from the consequences.
this is especially true of young women in poor parts of the world: this is really the heart of climate justice: generation, geography and gender.
we must never forget those perspectives, nor must we ever forget or turn a blind eye to the fact that we in the rich world have caused more than half of the total emissions since industrialization.
we often focus on emissions here and now, but what's causing climate change is total emissions, and that's where we in the rich world have to step up and take full responsibility.
unfortunately, it's no longer enough to talk about climate change adaptation.
the climate crisis is urgent.
in november, the big climate summit cop27 will be held in egypt.
it's happening in the shadow of russia's war on ukraine, skyrocketing energy prices and inflation.
but we still have to stick to our climate pledges and do everything we can, because emissions have to come down.
the eu is the world's leading environmental organisation, leading the way in many ways.
but we need to sharpen our tools and work globally to reduce emissions.
let's put in place a climate change threshold mechanism, a climate tax.
use trade agreements to leverage climate responsibility, growth and technological development.
we are in a dark time, but let the climate summit be a beacon of light and an opportunity to rejoice in concrete results.
the world and the climate need good news.
even at today's 1.2 degrees of global warming, we are seeing major floods, heat waves and droughts.
the eu must lead the way, showing how solar, wind, water and biogas reduce emissions, costs and dependence on russia.
to achieve this, to achieve ambitious and sustainable agreements, women must also have a seat at the negotiating table.
women and children are the ones who suffer the most from the consequences of the climate crisis.
women and children are also the most climate-smart people in everyday life.
let cop27 be the turning point where young women's voices and leadership for climate are taken seriously.
colleagues, we cannot, on the one hand, condemn and sanction russia, while on the other continuing to entertain any delusion that the regime in moscow can be a reliable partner, whether on climate, trade or regional stability.
while we also have to deal with the ongoing energy crisis, we must be able to think long term.
democracy, peace and security, as well as equality, gender equality and sustainable development for future generations - these are the goals and values that bind us together and that the eu will never, ever, lay its finger on, either in acute crises or in our long-term work for the future.
this is by far the most ambitious legislation in the world to dramatically reduce the climate footprint of shipping.
we do this in a balanced and feasible way, ensuring that we are able to cope with both the climate and the competitive situation.
any interference in our political processes is unacceptable, particularly in the current geopolitical climate, and in the run up to the 2024 european parliament election.
but we're also going to have a government that's going to address the social problems that we have with crime, that's going to make sure that we have an energy policy, and that's going to make sure that we reduce exclusion.
ideas are like energy.
the increase in energy prices has increased russia's fossil fuel revenues from the eu by over 100 billion euros.
that is why it is so important that the whole of the eu rapidly increases renewable energy production.
we need wind, sun and sustainable biogas.
i see a great potential for replacing fossil gas with green, renewable biogas throughout europe.
by not creating new allowances in the emissions trading system, we also save five years of, for example, swedish emissions.
we need to have higher ambitions for the climate.
when we act, we can take responsibility and make sustainable choices.
finally, companies must take responsibility for ensuring that the goods sold at all stages are produced with fundamental respect for human rights and the protection of the environment and health and that there has been no bribery in any business model.
it also requires corporate responsibility and modern, up-to-date sustainability reporting.
achieving an equal and sustainable eu requires an equal distribution of both power and resources.
commissioner, i welcome the european union’s growing recognition of the threatening geopolitical environment, but the eu has been asleep for decades.
although official development assistance for europe accounts for 46% of the contributions of oecd member states as a whole, it is soon apparent that a multiple of this amount is needed to achieve the sustainable development goals.
this gap is estimated at $4.2 trillion per year to achieve the sustainable development goals.
we no longer have the right to waste a single euro, so great are the needs to achieve the sdgs.
it promises to respect human rights, social rights, the requirements of the paris agreement on climate change, the commitments made in addis ababa in the context of financing development aid, the principles of sound management, the principle of partnership and the principle of ownership.
we are confronted today with multiple crises – the consequences of covid-19, the russian aggression against ukraine, debt pressure, food insecurity, energy costs and climate change.
all of these exacerbate the gap in finances needed to achieve the sustainable development goals.
to make the best possible use of scarce resources and to achieve sustainable impact, we need a joint european response combining all relevant instruments and actors.
on strategic steering, all investment operations financed from the eu budget are scrutinised to ensure that they comply with programming documents, that they align with team europe initiatives and the eu’s global policy priorities, such as delivering on the global gateway strategy and the green deal, and also mainstreaming gender and environmental aspects.
we have to see that the lack of security and education in africa has undermined a lot of eu investment, has amplified the impact of migration, and has ultimately impeded sustainable development.
to meet the un's sustainability goals, we need 130 trillion by 2030. that is our task, that is our challenge.
i congratulate him on his report, it shows the right way: supporting sustainability, winning people to go their own way, to make their countries strong, to build a sustainable future.
we all remember the unctad estimate of $88.6 billion in illicit capital flows into africa, a valuable resource that would help achieve the sustainable development goals.
i am afraid that, as sanctions policy has a negative impact on the economies of the eu member states, it also threatens the implementation of the sustainable development goals, and that is why peace is needed first and foremost.
finally, we have to also scale up private—sector mobilisation for sustainable development, including support to micro—, small and medium enterprises in partner countries to enable growth.
now the next crisis is here, and you centralists are refusing to cut aid funds, waste or bureaucracy.
we have war in europe, we have a climate crisis, and we still have the effects of the pandemic that are plaguing us.
it must be a kick-start for a youth policy that shows continued solidarity with ukraine, that is gender-equal and inclusive and that really takes the climate crisis seriously.
it was both exciting and important to be on the ground at cop27 in egypt, but it was with concern and disappointment that i left the climate summit.
i am disappointed that so little progress has been made in the negotiations to slow down global warming.
the eu became the bridge that opened the way for the fund to deal with the damage of the climate crisis.
we're struggling with skyrocketing energy prices and inflation.
but despite the gigantic challenges, the climate cannot wait, and i wish i didn't have to say this, but cop27 was another disappointment.
we would need to agree on faster action to really bring down emissions.
last week, we reached agreements on new legislation on sustainable batteries and the world's first law against global deforestation.
we will continue negotiations on a climate change border mechanism shortly.
so let's use this as inspiration to prepare for a successful climate summit meeting next time.
this is the least we can do, since the north's prosperity was based on the exploitation of the south and these countries are now suffering the dramatic consequences of climate change, which they did not cause.
what about our handling of the energy crisis?
this is a major issue, one that affects the climate as much as 44 million europeans.
while the energy market leads us directly to electricity shortages and skyrocketing prices, the commission systematically and blindly tells us that we must trust the market.
ladies and gentlemen, if we are to succeed in the next steps, we must make it clear that the market and ecological planning are incompatible.
the climate challenge we face requires ambitious and effective action.
on the ground in egypt, we also got testimony about how the money that is destined for education, in the maldives for example, today has to go to climate action.
we have agreements on how to reduce our emissions, increase our carbon sinks and reshape our road transport.
it's a clear signal that we're ambitious with our climate goals.
small steps in the right direction in terms of working on 'loss and damage', but unfortunately a big disappointment in terms of the very central work of quickly reducing our emissions.
as for the real key to the climate issue to reduce emissions quickly , it is only to state: we have certainly raised the ambitions within the eu a little bit for the meeting, but we are still far from what independent science says is required to be in line with the paris agreement.
what are we going to do now, quickly, so that we start to get closer to being in the paris agreement in time for the next climate summit, cop28?
the european agenda for culture was established in 2016. but this was a time before cultural workers had to endure a pandemic, a time before the massive renovation wave of climate change and a time before the war that wiped out beautiful cultural heritage.
it is children who have been hit the hardest by the climate crisis, and it is for future generations that we must preserve our cultural heritage.
our young people have expectations of the eu's work on health and sustainability and so let us not undermine chemical laws even to renovate beautiful art, but let us embrace research and innovation to safely preserve cultural heritage from generation to generation.
one in three children in the world is threatened by both the climate crisis and poverty.
if we are to end child poverty and end the climate crisis, we need political will and we need to put children first.
mr president, commissioner vestager, mr bek, the energy crisis is bad now, and it will get worse next winter.
you push for new, expensive climate legislation.
you refused to classify nuclear as sustainable in the eu taxonomy.
europe needs a moratorium on new climate legislation.