i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the council president! they want to revive the constitutional treaty for europe, which was buried long ago by the plebiscites in france and the netherlands. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the european union's development. and then they are surprised at the lack of enthusiasm and scepticism of the sovereign, the people. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. the absence of such a constitution is blamed on the council's deliberations behind closed doors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. paradoxical views! it is only when a european referendum on the constitution is proposed that it becomes truly bizarre to suggest to those states which do not accept the constitution that they should consider whether they want to remain in the eu at all. we do not need a constitutional monster with centralistic tendencies, madam president-in-office, but we must give our citizens a say in important decisions and solve long overdue problems such as globalisation, migration and unemployment. instead, concentrate on delivering on one of your key election promises, namely to prevent turkey's accession to the eu. the european parliament has a duty to the citizens of europe. and during the german presidency of the council, try to finally solve the problem of illegal mass immigration in the south of the union. in this way they do a much better service to the european identity, national and cultural diversity, which you rightly praise, than they do to reviving a long-dead constitutional treaty.
mr president, madam president of the council! madam chancellor, you certainly deserve a lot of respect for what you have already done in your life. i therefore appeal to you to summon up all your courage and tenacity once again and not to follow the traps of your colleagues in the government and to rally around what you call a set of rules. you have spoken a great deal about the european house, its soul, its tolerance, but so far nothing about what lies beneath it: the democratic foundation. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left to its own devices. so, if you dare to try again, take the big one! we are not talking about rules, but about something very fundamental - you yourself have spoken of three presidencies of the council - and we are not putting together something that will overburden the people, that parliament will not involve and that will end up in the dustbin of history, just like the republic from which you originally came.
mr president, madam president of the council! i congratulate you on your speech, on the values you mentioned. we have lost only one value, the value of solidarity. you have committed yourselves to a social europe, but if you were to include the value of solidarity in the catalogue of values which is very important for europe, then you would have even greater support from our side. i am thinking of the unemployed and the socially disadvantaged, whom you mentioned. in some european countries, poverty is growing. this is a scandal we must fight together! i would recommend that you supplement this solidarity, and also that you express solidarity between the individual member states. let us think of energy policy. without solidarity between the individual countries in energy policy we shall not have a common energy policy. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement. i don't want to use this against america, but a middle-class american man, richard haas, recently stated, and i quote, "the american era in the middle east is over. more than anything else, it was the iraq war [...] that brought it to an end. europe must help here, europe must step in here. the german presidency of the council in particular has a lot to do to see how we can help the socially weak and the people in this crisis-ridden region. as far as syria is concerned, the german initiatives are good. france's initiative towards iran is also good. but, madam president-in-office, you must ensure that we have a common foreign policy based on solidarity, because only then can we help the people of the middle east, and only then can we also help the people of our own continent, namely by putting solidarity on a large scale.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the german chancellor and president of the council, angela merkel, gave a very powerful speech in this house this morning. it has shown us in simple terms that the european union is not a simple thing, but one worth fighting for. we can confirm both in the case in hand, in view of the subject of this afternoon's debate. it's not easy to bring our work to people back home. they often feel unaffected. europe is so far away, they always say, and the prejudice is reinforced when politicians speak here. but it's a prejudice and therefore not right. today and in the last few days and weeks, a great many interested parties and lobbyists have repeatedly contacted me and many of us on this very subject. the railways have told us in detail what they want and need and what they don't want and don't need. you have expressed concern with one word. a lot of consumer advocates have come forward and said what they think the citizens want and need. they too felt affected. and a very large number of workers' and employers' organizations have been coming to us in recent weeks and months, showing concern for their clients. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we all try to put everything in the same place, it becomes very complicated and confusing; we have no fish or meat. in addition, and this concerns a third element of european legislation, our processes take a very long time. we know that we will need a conciliation procedure for our railway package as well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must not let this discourage us. the sterckx report on passenger rights is worth fighting for. we want and will achieve the adoption of a uniform legal text for all passenger transport in the european union. we want to continue to receive financial compensation, not just good words. we also want rights for disabled passengers and those with reduced mobility. it is important to me that we also recognize and help single mothers or fathers with several small children who are travelling alone. but it is important for all of us that we get a good result and that the european citizens see that europe is theirs and that it is worth fighting for.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you. mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to express to you - although we do not agree with you on certain details of your report - my respect for the tenacity, persistence and vehemence with which you have pursued this report since i have been in this house, and have been relatively successful in doing so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not affected by the accident. it is always said that the way to get there and the ideas of it are different. i'm not sure that's really the case. i wonder why it is that those colleagues who, for example, did not really strengthen the railways on the question of the road toll directive by postponing certain things, are now on the side of those who want to liberalize. why, for example, did the previous austrian minister for transport push for this liberalization and at the same time bring the austrian federal railways close to bankruptcy in his domestic railway policy? and why have we not all taken the perhaps more sensible course of saying that we are looking at liberalisation in the international arena and only deciding whether to continue down this path after we have seen the results of that course? if we had done it that way, i could say without a doubt that everyone here is for the progress of the railways in europe. i do not think that there is some kind of neo-liberal campaign against the railways. i do not think that is quite clear, although the rapporteur has moved a little to the right in time for the presentation of the report in plenary. but i've moved to the right too. that doesn't mean anything. i think there are many different reasons for this path to liberalization, which i cannot fully support. that's why i don't want to jump on this train just yet. i hope that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the abstract title 'rome ii' conceals questions which concern the citizens very directly and very massively. the committee therefore discussed the various issues very intensively. i'll take three of them. the first is the question of environmental protection in the case of transboundary damage. in general, environmental protection shows a fatal tendency to ignore the problems of one's neighbour, even if one has caused them, often by acting recklessly. unfortunately, we have to say that this happens again and again, that it is not taken care of and that the plants that are currently emitting are being built very close to the borders. we have tried to find a rule that the victims of these environmental problems should enjoy maximum protection and that environmental dumping, as the commissioner has also mentioned, should not take place. unfortunately, the european people's party and the liberals have decided not to vote for it, and have thus paved the way for a step backwards which i consider fatal. i hope that the council and the commission will come to a better solution. on the question of defamation in the press, we have managed to find a compromise which, in my view, protects and supports freedom of the press. we must respect this fundamental value of the european union and place it at the centre of our actions. the best way to protect it is to discuss the legal consequences in the country where the newspaper or media is located. the issue of road accidents - which i consider particularly important - is something that potentially affects everyone. we have found a compromise here, and i hope that it will be reached in the negotiations with the other committees. citizens can expect us to take their daily needs into account and to put the interests of the victims first. that is what the people of europe expect of us!
you skipped a request, number 40.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perhaps we did not inform you in time, but this is the last report by mrs hedkvist petersen on a subject which has always interested her very much, namely road safety. we would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs hedkvist petersen for the work she has done in this house over the last few years. (applause from the centre)
the commissioner, minister gabriel, has been here for a long time. i only have a minute to reach your head, too. after listening to you, all i can say is, "good roar, lion!" we know that president bush is in office, and as you have shouted, mr minister, so did one of your predecessors, klaus töpfer, in 1992, when we were in almost the same situation. it almost seems as if we have a historical window of time in the transition from the fall of the wall to globalization. but nothing happened then, so it's a negative example. i would like to encourage you to stick to this subject, to avoid the resistance you are facing from the german car industry as elegantly as possible and to really concentrate on the matter. it is also important to realize that without compromise, we cannot succeed. if you succeed in making the renunciation of rich countries sexy, then you could end up politically like the successor of this very environment minister i mentioned and that would not be a bad thing for you and then possibly for the world!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! it is beyond dispute among all of us sitting here that there must be a stronger prevention of terrorism in the future. however, there is always the question of means as well as strategies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i support - as do all of us here - transatlantic cooperation in this context. but we must ensure that the balance is maintained between security and counter-terrorism on the one hand and data protection on the other. and if we are to negotiate a new agreement, it must meet certain basic conditions. the first is the protection of personal data, which must not fall below the level already achieved in the interim agreement. secondly, we must provide legal certainty for airlines to fulfil what has been promised, namely the switch to a push system which gives us control over what data is delivered to whom at what time. of course, there must also be a purpose limitation so that the data can and may be used only for the purpose of preventing and combating terrorism and there must also be an information obligation for travellers in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the united states authorities should be obliged, as soon as a terrorist suspect is identified, to inform the relevant judicial and police authorities of the member states as well as the relevant institutions of the european union, i.e. europol or eurojust. if all this is guaranteed, we will have another instrument on the road to greater security for the citizens of the european union!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i too join in congratulating the rapporteur. for a long time, the prevailing view was that environmental protection and sustainable development were luxuries that could only be discussed and achieved after a certain level of development of a society. sustainable development has become one of the millennium development goals, because poor people suffer much more directly from the effects of poor environmental conditions. their lives depend heavily on access to natural resources. for example, forests are the livelihood of 90% of the people living in absolute poverty. developing countries are also more affected by the consequences of climate change than the developed nations, which are the main contributors. in this context, the commission's proposal to reduce co2 emissions from new cars from 2012 onwards across europe is to be welcomed. in this report we once again call on the united states, but also on india and china, to ratify the kyoto protocol and to take responsibility, together with the european union, for sustainable development worldwide. the creation of infrastructure can be an important element for sustainable development, but it is important to take into account social and environmental aspects as well. we therefore call on the commission to carry out an environmental impact assessment of every project receiving union financial support and then to make it publicly available. reports of inhumane working conditions in developing countries are shocking. it is essential to improve the effectiveness of the code of conduct for european companies operating in developing countries. it is also necessary to help break through the core labour standards of the international labour organisation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if i understood correctly, you said that this act was adopted under article 90 because there was no objection. secondly, there are constant messages that embassies are intervening with us, in this case the indian embassy. we are not the mouthpiece of an embassy, we are the mouthpiece of a population, and we should therefore stick to the resolution.
in writing. i am in favour of the recommendation to approve retrofit systems for the protection of vehicle occupants against unsecured baggage, as this will facilitate trade in motor vehicles between different contracting parties and ensure a high level of safety and environmental protection. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the recommendation on a system for the approval of motor vehicles with regard to the driver's field of vision. the harmonization of motor vehicle regulations will reduce trade barriers between the different contracting parties and ensure a high level of safety. the design shall ensure an adequate field of vision through the windscreen and other parts of the glazing of motor vehicles. this is in any case to be supported in the interests of general safety.
in writing. over the last 15 years, we have made progress in reducing poverty, but not nearly to the extent we had hoped. because even if we can boost the economic development of a country, it does not mean that poverty will be reduced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the mediterranean area. in this respect, we will need better effectiveness monitoring to ensure that development funds are used in the right places for the right purposes. it would also be worth considering a focus on so-called anchor countries, which can catapult an entire region forward in terms of development policy. we should also be open to new approaches, such as micro-credit, which will put the poor on their feet in a sustainable way.
in writing. in fact, we all know what is healthy and what is not even without eu-mandated labels. yet, our diet and lifestyle have changed to such an extent that obesity, with all its health consequences, has become a matter of concern. the combination of lack of exercise, poor diet, and too much tv also increases aggression. the various health measures which have been in force for some time were rightly started at an early age, as this is where the risk of obesity is very high. nutrition guides and health nurseries or even advertising bans will not get us there. the love of sports, which is important for reducing stress and aggression, and healthy eating habits must be experienced and awakened in the family. but this very nucleus of our society is constantly being bombarded by the modern world of work with flexible working hours, weekend and shift work and the ever-growing demand for even longer opening hours. tired and exhausted from a long day's work, fast food is easier to grasp than elaborate cooking. you want to sit in front of the tv with chips and soda and that's the behavior that the kids are mimicking. we preach more exercise, but at the same time we cut back on physical education for budgetary reasons, or excuse foreign children because of their religion, and sports clubs are getting less and less support.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not it is an important matter which we should not let slip by, as is repeatedly shown in the various discussions in the media, and i hope the rapporteur agrees with me. there are two possibilities, as you mentioned: thursday afternoon; but since, as i hear, there is not much demand for speakers on thursday mornings, it might be possible. then we could vote on thursday afternoon. both would have been possible. we would prefer thursday morning, but we are also in favour of the afternoon.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, you can also vote on thursday afternoon. the reason why i have a problem with wednesday is as follows: i hear that the ppe-de group wants darfur to be put on the agenda, and i believe that is what is being proposed for wednesday evening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we could discuss mr lehne's report on thursday morning and vote at noon, we would be very happy.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not as i have just explained, i expect that darfur, where development issues are also discussed, will be discussed on wednesday evening. we would like to discuss the gahler report on wednesday evening. we have informed the group, but i do not know whether the rapporteur knows or is able to do so at this stage. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. wine is an important subject, especially for the development of european agriculture. so, if it's possible, we would be very supportive of that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the trends in waste are worrying and the potential for waste prevention and recycling is far from being exploited. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety therefore advocates binding targets for reducing and avoiding waste and also that the five-level waste hierarchy should be the basis of future european waste policy. i hope that the reports adopted by the committee on the environment will also receive a large majority in the plenary. this will improve the commission's proposal considerably. it is of the utmost importance that the distinction between waste disposal and recycling be maintained. the commission proposal classified the thermal treatment of domestic and similar waste as recovery instead of disposal, provided that the incineration plants meet certain energy efficiency criteria. this approach would have fatal consequences, namely, environmental dumping throughout europe and a sharp increase in waste tourism. in future, waste could be transported across europe without any problems and legally, and incinerated where it is cheapest and most harmful to the environment. it is important that the member states can rely on the principle of proximity, which has so far been enshrined in community law. it has been said today that we should seek an approach that involves as little bureaucracy as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the environment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank caroline jackson and johannes blokland for the excellent work they have done. i would ask the commission to support us on two points which are particularly important for my home country, austria, but also for germany. firstly, it is catering waste which is sterilized by a certain treatment process. they are heated to over 130° and can therefore very well be used in pig farming. this is a subject of enormous importance to us and also reflects the circular idea of waste management, because waste from the food chain, which is not used by humans, can be used after sterilization in a meaningful way for animal feed. the second point is bio-waste. i would ask the commission to take the example of a few member states which have very well developed and already functioning systems for bio-waste and to come forward with a european proposal which can certainly complement the present one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are approaching a central issue in our prosperous society. we must finally succeed in separating economic growth, which is generally desirable, from the growth in the volume of waste, both in relative and absolute terms. it cannot be that the garbage pile is constantly growing and that we think we are getting richer because of it. this is expected to stabilise by 2012 at the latest. the measures proposed - for example, that we have a mandatory hierarchy and can only deviate from it if life cycle analyses clearly show that this is the case - i think are the right way forward. but i still believe that the correct implementation in the member states and good control by the commission are also necessary to prevent the excesses described by some of my colleagues.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the speakers in tonight’s debate for their very constructive positions. i would like to outline the commission’s view on a number of key issues raised by parliament. i will start with those aspects of the thematic strategy not covered in the directive. i welcome the support given in the report to developing common european minimum standards. the next step will be a new proposal to regulate certain additional waste treatment activities under the ippc directive. i also agree with the emphasis placed on preventing waste and notably on the role chemicals policy and eco-design could play in this respect. finally, the resolution you have approved proposes a number of additional measures for increasing recycling and recovery of waste. the commission will take this into account when developing further measures implementing the strategy. let me now turn to the waste framework directive. many of the amendments adopted by the european parliament provide useful clarifications to the proposal and can be accepted. others would have consequences that would be undesirable. i would like first of all to comment on some of the points made in tonight’s debate and on some of the key amendments that the commission can accept in full, in principle, or in part. the commission can accept the stricter and clearer reference to a five-step waste hierarchy. however, it is important that we recognise that the hierarchy needs to be applied in order to take the best environmental option. excessive procedural requirements such as those set out in the second part of the amendment will not help to achieve this. the commission can also accept a number of useful clarifications with regard to some important definitions including waste prevention and recycling. in addition, elements such as the promotion of reuse and producer responsibility can be supported in principle. the commission also welcomes the reference to the interpretative communication on by-products, which i hope will satisfy the need for clarity in this domain when it is adopted very shortly. however, there are also a number of amendments that the commission cannot support. firstly, the commission is committed to having clear and unambiguous definitions of the key terms in this directive. as i stated earlier, the amendments proposed in relation to reuse and to recovery and disposal do not meet this test. the recovery and disposal distinction is a key framework condition for the functioning of the european recycling market. it needs to be applied by the authorities in order to process waste shipment decisions, and the recovery definition in the directive must be sufficiently clear and robust to allow this to happen. otherwise, there will be frequent and unnecessary referrals to the court of justice and this would adversely affect recycling activities and the environmental benefit they can deliver. secondly, it is important to deal with the grey area in the energy recovery definition with regard to classifying municipal incinerators, where the amendments proposed do not tackle the issue and weaken the level of environmental protection. this problem dates back ten years and we need to find a compromise now in order to deal with it clearly in this revision. making the efficiency criterion from the commission proposal obligatory for municipal incinerators and extending this to co-incineration facilities as well is not the answer to the question. it will be neither technically possible nor environmentally useful. thirdly, certain amendments are either unnecessary references, duplicate other elements of european union legislation, or add an unnecessary administrative burden for stakeholders or the european union institutions. notably, a number of the amendments relating to hazardous waste would penalise businesses handling such waste for no apparent environmental benefit and in some cases are technically impossible to implement. for example, it is not good for the environment to have a total ban on the mixing of hazardous waste with other waste: it could lead to substandard treatment of some kinds of hazardous waste. more generally, it is essential that the work on developing common standards for the recycling market, such as the end-of-waste criteria, should be allowed to reach its full potential. these standards are necessarily technical and must adapt to improvements in environmental performance in order not to become a drag on eco-innovation. the time taken by the preparation and the procedures for codecision means that this is an inappropriate route for such technical work and some comitology will be necessary. finally, i wanted to comment on the amendments relating to waste prevention. waste prevention, as i said before, is one of the key elements of this revision. i welcome the support for the waste prevention programmes in the report. i also understand the approach behind the inclusion of a waste prevention target. however, the target, as presented in the relevant amendments, is too bland. it will have an uneven impact on different member states – too difficult for some, not ambitious enough for others – and it will be difficult to interpret and enforce. i cannot, therefore, accept the amendments in question. as i have already explained, this is a framework directive, whose role cannot be to regulate specific recycling targets. such targets will be elaborated and proposed by the commission in the near future. many speakers have asked for specific legislation, for example in areas such as bio-waste. the commission is examining ways to make legislative proposals in this field. many other speakers raised issues which are not to be dealt with in this directive, such as illegal cross-border shipments of waste, for which we have special legislation. municipal waste cannot be transported across borders for incineration, even if the municipal incinerator across the border is classified as recovery. a member state may oppose such a transfer. we have a prohibition on the dumping of waste in the developing world both in european union law and international law: the basel ban. a few days ago, a directive was proposed to punish environmental crimes. soil pollution from illegal landfilling is covered by the landfill directive and the soil thematic strategy. the conclusion must be that the role of the waste framework directive is not to deal with special dysfunctions. i now turn to the 92 amendments tabled just before the plenary. we welcome some of the suggestions, such as maintaining the energy efficiency formula as a basis for distinguishing between recovery and disposal for municipal incinerators, but we cannot accept certain other amendments. however, given the volume and timing of these amendments, i will need to reserve the position of the commission. to sum up, i am pleased to say that the commission can accept 42 of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety – 15 in full and 27 in principle or in part. i shall give a complete list of the commission’s position on the amendments to parliament’s secretariat. i should like to thank the rapporteurs once again for their efforts and excellent work. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. mr president, first, i would like to congratulate parliament and you, mrs bozkurt, on the report. it is an accurate and carefully balanced description of the situation as regards women’s rights in turkey and it is also a valuable contribution to the debate on women’s role in the social, political and economic life of the country. there has indeed been progress in the area of women’s rights: legislation has been passed; an advisory board on the status of women has been established; an official circular has been issued by the prime minister, instructing the administration to deal with domestic violence; a joint eu–turkey project is setting up a database on violence against women; and the ‘let’s go to school, girls’ campaign has resulted in the enrolment of 177 000 girls in school. all this is positive and is acknowledged in the report. however, we also very much share your concerns as regards women’s rights in turkey. women’s participation in the labour market, political representation of women, education for girls and violence against women are areas of main concern and we concur with the thrust of the analysis and recommendations of the report. low levels of participation by women and low employment rates, together with the large size of the informal economy, represent a major employment policy challenge. we also agree that political participation by women in turkey is dramatically low and that important efforts have to be made to deal with this issue. in addition, we cannot agree more with the importance education has for the economic independence of women. you will know that gender equality is a major theme in the context of the political criteria. that is why the commission follows all these issues closely as part of its regular monitoring. we also cover them in the context of the negotiations. we report regularly on the situation in the annual progress reports. inadequacies are also raised in our bilateral monitoring meetings with the turkish authorities. in the framework of our pre-accession assistance, the commission also funds a number of projects aimed at promoting women’s rights. particular emphasis is given to violence against women. in 2007 we will support the establishment of eight shelters for women who have been subject to domestic violence. gender equality is also given a high priority within the civil society dialogue between the eu and turkey. this dialogue aims at improving mutual knowledge and understanding. several projects have already been funded, including some involving women’s ngos. the commission will continue to promote actively non-discrimination against women in all areas of life. this will include future projects. we will also continue to encourage civil society initiatives aimed at increasing public awareness, such as the ‘stop the violence against women’ campaign.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we are discussing the situation of turkish women today and we are giving turkey recommendations and advice, we are making demands and demanding changes. it is a good report, the report by our colleague, mrs emine bozkurt. it will promote democratization and help improve the living conditions of turkish women. but all that we want to give turkey, the candidate country for eu membership, this week should also be written into our own books. let us stop denying the fundamental rights of a group of people in europe. let us give this group of people the opportunity to present their demands here in the european parliament. let us finally allow this ethnic group to trade with the eu and the rest of the world. let's allow her to attend schools and universities legally; we recognize their testimonies. let us allow this ethnic group to participate in european sporting events. let's put an end to this discrimination in the eu! you know who i'm talking about. i am talking about the group of people who voted overwhelmingly in favour of the european union in 2004 and sought to be reunited with the other group of people in their home country, and to whom we promised an end to their isolation. i am talking about the turks in cyprus. what is the greatest asset in the european union's sleeve? what is something of which we are rightly proud? that the european community is a peace project. how can we be so nonchalant as to look the other way when one eu member state is having great difficulty in allowing two ethnic groups to live together in peace? the un needs troops, is it over-militarized? the island is full of soldiers and weapons. if christian and muslim cultures cannot coexist in cyprus, how can they coexist in the much more complex structure of the european union? the eu is not doing enough to tackle its internal problems. it is therefore losing credibility. there will be no peace union as long as cyprus remains a divided island! we must not only help turkish women in turkey to get their rights, but we must also help turkish women in cyprus to get their rights.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not the legal situation of women in turkey has improved, but this is not a success story. if you look at the practical implementation and the attitudes of the vast majority of the population, it is immediately clear that most of these improvements are only on paper. for example, in theory, spanking is now a ground for divorce. statistics show that they are widely used. yet, the divorce rate in turkey is lower than in many other developing countries. what kind of a state of law is this, when the state stops prosecuting if the suspect objects and only in very rare cases do threatened women receive protection from the police? what good is it to have positive legislative innovations if they are constantly reduced to the absurd in court decisions? the high rate of illiteracy among women and the high rate of forced marriages and the increasing number of honour killings disguised as suicides are also, in my view, very telling. and if the poorly educated woman, perhaps even working in slavelike conditions, then becomes unemployed, she does not even appear in the official statistics. the eu should have applied the emergency brake on this distortion of the unemployment rate and the wave of migration that it threatens to bring. the treatment of women and their position in turkish society in general, in my view, proves once again that turkey is not a european country and probably never will be.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are not dealing with this subject for the first time. we have already had some discussions on this - no wonder, because the criticism we receive from the public on this subject is more than fierce, especially in the direction of blaming the european union - brussels - for something in which, for example, the european parliament could not participate adequately nor was it adequately informed and justified as to why certain measures were considered necessary. this process of providing access without the possibility of demand, of legal information, cannot remain as it is, because it creates a situation that cannot be supported any further. the measures have been in place for several months now, but the criticism from passengers has not abated. why would you do that? it is clear that now is the time for reflection. let's take a closer look at this. if a counter-terrorism measure is sensible, no one will refuse it if he considers it necessary and sees its purpose and knows that it can lead to the goal. but if, for example, you have a contact lens moisturizer removed and you can buy a bottle of whiskey in a duty free container larger than 100 ml, then no one will notice; then this is also not communicable. it is now necessary to clarify the logic of taking away a bottle of wine that a passenger has brought with him when he has the opportunity to buy the same bottle of wine later in duty free. we must explain this to the people, otherwise we will not have the approval to take the measures necessary for air safety.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! i have listened to your statements very carefully and i do not think that anyone is trying to undermine your goodwill. but good intentions are not always good. this is the experience of many of us and of millions of european citizens every day when they are confronted in a european airport with behaviour which they cannot judge whether it is lawful or not and what its meaning is. in particular, three questions remain open: how far can the measures really go? where does the harassment and the arbitrariness of the authorities begin? it's not even the authorities, it's usually the employees of a security company who suddenly turn out to be deputy sheriffs and demand everything. the second question is: are the burdens on passengers in an acceptable relation to the safety gains? thirdly, do these measures really increase security or are they just an alibi? until we have the possibility of checking the specific legal texts on which the controllers are guided ourselves, we cannot determine whether we are being treated properly or not. and unless serious risk assessments are made and communicated in a reasonable way to the public, european citizens cannot assess whether what is being done here is legitimate and actually brings a security benefit or whether it is being treated as harassment, as some feel, which then ultimately falls back on the european union in a way that cannot be indifferent to all of us.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not after the vote, my contribution will not be of much value. please be a little more careful in the future, i must say. i would like to thank the finnish presidency and the german presidency as well. we are dealing with this subject in just one reading, and we are spending about 100 million euros over the next few years to fight fraud. i wanted to say that to my colleagues!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the inspire data system is an essential achievement for us in europe, because we need spatial data that are comparable for all policies, especially in the environmental field. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs brepoels, for drawing up an excellent compromise. only in this way can we ensure that citizens are informed about the environmental risks they face and can participate in the systems we are building in europe. inspire is making a major contribution to this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the revision of this waste framework directive, two things were particularly important to us austrians: the first is the special regulation for bio-waste, since we and germany have very well functioning systems which must be maintained. at the same time we call on the commission to continue its work here to establish a pan-european system. the second was catering and inn waste, which can be reused in pig farming after appropriate treatment. this is a very important approach to properly utilising such food flows.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. slowly but surely, a social rethinking is taking place around the issue of waste. but as more countries are working off their waste and operators are trying to use up their facilities, waste is being transported across europe. even though attention is now being paid to the environment, there are still black sheep who illegally dump large and small quantities of waste or collect for the waste they accept without providing for costly recycling. this not only damages our common habitat, but also costs the state and local governments a lot of money. we need to do something more drastic here. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. of course, we also need to focus on increasing recycling, and the eu and its member states should lead by example. we must also not forget that the disposal of nuclear waste is still not resolved. all the more reason not to build any more nuclear power plants.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. in order to meet the maastricht criteria and the lisbon strategy, i believe that the government's family money is being squandered. citizens have to tighten their belts, they are too often driven out of public service into unemployment and early retirement and then have to tremble for their social security. the promise that everything will be cheaper, more efficient and more flexible cannot be fulfilled by these liberalizations. public infrastructure is characterised by long payback periods and low returns. but in the private sector, it is mostly about making money fast, and we all know the consequences. like the fact that the punctuality and abandoned railway lines force us to resort to the car. thanks to post-liberalisation, we can now invest in new mailboxes and make long journeys to post offices, and then end up in the stone age of unethical working conditions. stock market speculation makes electricity more expensive, and at some point we may not be able to afford our own water because there is more money to be made abroad. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. this would set off the fuse on a powder keg, and the first explosions are already approaching. we must therefore rethink our approach, implement a competent family and birth policy, invest more in education and promote our industries and domestic agricultural production with a reasonable degree of protectionism to protect our citizens from eu-sponsored relocations. i do not think it is the purpose of eco-energy either that nuclear power should be used to produce it or that bio-gasoline should lead to food shortages, as in mexico. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the constitution has been mentioned several times. the constitution provides for europe to have greater powers in energy policy. well, we don't have the constitution yet, so we have to try to get this stronger energy policy competence in other ways, particularly - and minister gloser has also mentioned this - on the foreign policy side. how can we achieve a reasonable, balanced relationship with russia if the european union does not speak with a stronger, more unified voice? russia would much rather negotiate with the individual countries and play them off against each other. but our demand - especially for the summit - is to make it clear that there is only one european voice in this relationship with russia. and if russia complains that it does not have full access to the market, what should we do on the european side first? that is why a balanced relationship with russia is important. second, we need to diversify. we need to get to other sources. where? where? especially in the caucasus and central asia. the united states of america, with all its commitment to the market, has pushed through the construction of an oil pipeline from baku via tbilisi to ceyhan in turkey, viewing this as an important political project and encouraging private investors to do so. i am not saying that the european union should be a political force, but i am saying that it should be a political force, and i am not saying that it should be a political force, but i am saying that it should be a political force. many of these points have already been mentioned by robert goebbels. i would therefore ask that all this be made clear at this summit. if we think we need to diversify, if we think we need new, additional lines, then we must say so clearly. then russia will come along and try to get involved or do business with us. if we do not present ourselves clearly and distinctly as europe on international markets, we will not be able to do what we have to do for our people, namely to ensure the security of energy supplies in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. every year we discuss the lisbon strategy before the spring summit. it would be good for us to take the objectives we set ourselves more seriously in the council, in the commission and in parliament. i have only one demand: do what is agreed! convince by action, not just by word. i would therefore say in short: better legislation! better regulation requires more transparency. we shall achieve greater transparency if all legislative procedures are brought under the codecision procedure. preliminary test: we heard it today. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules. the impact on growth and employment. i want to make a cost-benefit analysis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the time taken to legislate. we need to improve the controls on how and when our laws are implemented. secondly, we have appointed national officials. what are they doing? is there a semiannual report from the national parliaments on the state of play and the timetable for action in relation to the lisbon process? where is the report to the european parliament every year from the commission and the national authorities? thirdly, the completion of the internal market is our task. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new, the new, the new, the old, the new, the new, the new, the new, the new, the new we have enough goals, actions create credibility and trust.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! there has been a lot of talk about the successful implementation of the lisbon strategy - or at least the efforts to do so. i would like to ask you to join me in asking that at the next meeting you speak out in favour of clear outlines and clear boundaries between the responsibilities of each individual. the individual member state and the european union. the interparliamentary meeting in brussels last week showed that colleagues from the individual member states have taken all the criticisms and demands concerning education, employment, social security, climate protection, etc. to brussels and have called for solutions to these. the majority of responsibilities, however, lie with the member states. it is necessary to ensure greater transparency and to provide more information so that we know who is ultimately responsible. what is the eu's responsibility and what is the member state's? education is at the heart of the lisbon strategy. the commission's latest progress report showed that member states are still struggling to meet the five targets by 2010. this requires urgently more investment in education, the establishment of clear rights and obligations in the field of education, vocational training and lifelong learning. in order to achieve greater mobility, it is also necessary to recognise the qualifications. we cannot start with what we have achieved within the european union. i would ask you to take this into account in your work. i had a very interesting meeting last week with the young european socialists, who gave me the following message: education has its own purpose. it is not only always about becoming a more adapted worker for the labour market, but also has a major impact on the development of personal self-confidence, social skills and cultural understanding. i think that is the great educational task for all of us.
the commission has already done so. we have just been talking about the use of economic power by different states to advance political interests. in this case, does the european union intend to apply economic pressure and use economic force to guarantee the rule of law and freedom for european citizens? i think it's time we showed our strength here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to know what the commission's strategy is with regard to pipelines and lng tankers. we have many ways to diversify our supply. what are the commission's plans?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. one of the real challenges is the energy picture for 2010. there are proposals for a 10% blend of bioethanol, biodiesel and renewable energy. we're going to need a lot of processing facilities here. do you think that the de minimis rules could also be used for these advances?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for their work. it is the third reform of the wine sector in 12 years and i am glad that a commission communication has once again brought the very different positions and objectives closer together. at the beginning, our views were very different, because wine is a very emotional subject. i always say that wine is one of the most elegant products of agriculture. this is also proved by the almost 600 amendments. i think that this report can be seen as very positive in the long run. there are many compromises in this. i would like to stress in particular that the traditional oenological methods have been taken into account. but it must be quite clear that there is no possibility of any form of double compensation or support for regions, because we cannot account for this to the taxpayers in europe. there is another problem that is important to us in austria. until now, the issue of the labelling of table wines has not really been taken into account. we certainly do not want table wines to be labelled in the same way as quality wines. there must be a clear distinction for consumers to see. finally, i would ask the commission to read this own-initiative report carefully. i am convinced, commissioner, that you and all your officials will do so. it contains good proposals which we hope will be reflected in the commission's proposal for a new common organization of the market in wine which will be presented to us in the summer.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs very warmly, because they have made it possible for the european parliament and its members to be taken more seriously by all the institutions. i'm convinced that we can find a way out of this together. the commissioner has already made some suggestions. but the council must finally take action, and i think that is possible through good dialogue. as in the first vote, one thing is certain: no relaxation of the common agricultural policy - it is still the only truly community policy of the european union - and no renationalisation of the common agricultural policy. europe lives on solidarity, respect and dignity for each individual. the european agriculture has undergone far-reaching reforms over the last fifteen years, unlike any other of our policies. we are dealing with - you have already mentioned this, commissioner - the health check, which we will start discussing next year in order to be prepared for the period after 2013. it is particularly important that we in the european parliament continue to follow this uniform line across all the boundaries of committees and political groups, because only in this way can it be ensured that the european parliament and its representatives are not ignored any longer. i therefore ask all members to follow the proposal of our rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur tomorrow as they did in the first vote.
i have to say, madam president, i support the position of the rapporteur and i think the committee on budgets of this house does too. we hear from the commission all the time that it wants to be an efficient administration and institution. you've been asleep for three months. we voted on this goepel report for the first time three months ago. you know what parliament wants. you know the rights of this house, and you're just denying it. i thought you'd come today with an acceptable proposal. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would have liked to have heard that from you today. but i can't hear anything. so i see no reason to change the course we have taken in any way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the war on terror, every means seems to be justified and no rights seem to be sacred. when we learned of the inhuman conditions and torture in us prisons, we should have heard clear words from the eu. and at the latest, when the cia started to extend its illegal practices to eu member states, it should have been stopped immediately. not only have the much-vaunted values of the people of this country been ignored, but they have also stood by and even supported violations of international law and human rights. and then the european taxpayers will also be asked to pay for the misdeeds of the self-appointed world policeman usa! i think that this return to the stone age of human rights is a real disgrace for the european union. we must not allow ourselves to be degraded into blindly obedient vassals of the united states, let alone become the paymasters of us war policy. so i think it is long overdue for the eu to make a clear statement and to apologise to the victims.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr fava and mr coelho very warmly for their excellent work. there have been some - in my view quite illegal - abductions of european soil by us agencies. it didn't come out as much as some might have expected, but that's because of the obfuscation tactics, not just of the united states, but of many european governments. i have heard today that some members are more concerned with setting the fog machine in motion than with clarifying matters. as far as my own country, austria, is concerned, the report only mentions abductions of non-austrians outside the austrian territory. but this is about human rights, not just civil rights! because when people are kidnapped and brought to the 'judicial authorities' who are known to use torture, and sometimes extensively, it is a scandal that european governments do not intervene and do not look after the rights of citizens or non-citizens, in any case, people who have been legally in our european countries. i also find it very problematic that a number of governments have simply not reacted and that a number of national parliaments have not taken their responsibilities seriously to get to the bottom of things. i think that we, the european parliament in particular, have done the right thing by setting up this committee to make it clear that we in this parliament are committed to human rights and to the rules necessary to ensure that human rights are truly recognized and enforced in europe. that is the point and that is the conclusion of this committee report. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission! when we set up the committee of inquiry, we agreed that we wanted to seek new evidence, that we wanted to establish facts and that we wanted to introduce the necessary consequences when human rights were violated. the report, with its 270 amendments, now contains only part of the facts and the new elements, and is often based on conjecture, assertions and still on suppositions. i am sure that the rapporteur, mr fava, does not want that either. the first is that the overall impression is that the united states is in the dock. the report thus no longer focuses on those who really belong on the dock, the terrorists. if so, then this is a political mistake. the report also contains factual errors, for example concerning europol. it is alleged that europol cooperated with us intelligence services and that even us intelligence officials worked as liaison officers at europol. although the director of europol, mr ratzel, has clarified the matter in a letter that europol is of course not an intelligence service and cannot have any coordinating function of services in europe, and that of course no liaison officer of a us intelligence service has ever worked at europol , the report remains factually inaccurate. this is detrimental to the credibility of the european parliament and must be firmly rejected. if various points based on mere assertions and allegations are exaggerated to be facts and are not deleted from the report when voting, or if false statements are left out, then the report does not do the job. we must also ask ourselves whether the 2 million euros needed for the committee of inquiry were justified.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this is an added value we want to achieve in the exchange of data for the citizens of the european union, i.e. it should be required that in the event of a terrorist suspect identified by us authorities, the information is passed on to the eu authorities, i.e. europol and eurojust. the oral amendment therefore reads as follows: 'in the interests of security ... expects that the us authorities, in the case of acknowledged terrorist threat, are obliged to immediately inform the eu authorities about this suspicion;' i hope you can all agree to this amendment in the interests of the citizens of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the one hand, i was pleased to note that the report made it clear that neither the austrian government nor any official body or authority in austria had been involved in any incorrect way. i have nevertheless voted against the report because the allegations made in it could not be substantiated by any evidence and were nevertheless recorded in the report; but above all because the factual error concerning europol, which i have clearly pointed out, has not been removed from the report. this means that the report still contains a factual misrepresentation, alleging that europol employed us intelligence officers, which is completely untrue. a report with such errors is detrimental to the credibility of parliament and has led to a very large number of members voting against the whole report.
in writing. even if the eu seems to be putting its weight behind the agricultural sector, it does not change the fact that we are suffering from a constant loss of farmers and that more and more farms are run as a side business. if our subsidies benefit large companies and royals and we fail to make a strong case for our organic farmers at the wto, we should not be surprised by such developments. in order to guarantee fair prices for healthy products, clear quality and quality labels would be desirable. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. that is why i voted against the goepel report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make it clear that the austrian ppp delegation has always been a clear advocate of committed climate action. we have voted against this resolution because it is an attempt to introduce nuclear energy through the back door. we have also always been clear about rejecting this form of energy because we believe it has no future. i was very surprised that so few of the declared opponents of nuclear energy - especially the social democrats and the green group - had nevertheless voted in favour of this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that the fight against terrorism can only be carried out in cooperation. the united states is undoubtedly an important partner for the european union in this respect. the fact that we need the exchange of data and information is clear, but it must be done according to rules that both sides accept. having established the rules and found a large majority for this - from purpose-binding to not storing sensitive data to switching to a push system - and, above all, having achieved that the us authorities are obliged to inform the relevant european union authorities in the event of a terrorist suspicion, i was happy to support this resolution. i am convinced that if commissioner frattini is given the mandate to negotiate, a good result can be achieved in the interests of the security of the citizens of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the main features of economic policy are our moral or regulatory framework for the member states, because economic policy is a matter for the member states, but we pursue pan-european objectives. this tension determines all the debates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, we are witnessing a welcome development in economic policy, and this welcome development gives us the scope to approach the political objectives and the necessary reform measures with a little back wind more actively, more courageously and more aggressively than if the economy were not boosting. thirdly, there is no contradiction between the task of using the internal market, pursuing the lisbon objectives, complying with the stability and growth pact and addressing the challenge of the consequences of demographic change, but all these measures must be taken if we are to achieve the economic policy objectives of the european union and its objectives. so i also say that what is often said in election campaigns is not true: it is not the independence of the european central bank - as is said in france - or the objectives of the european union that are the cause of national problems, but the failure to pursue these objectives is creating national problems of growth and employment. ladies and gentlemen, let us use this time to take a more active approach to our objectives and our political reform decisions. let us reform social security systems so that we can meet the challenge of globalisation. let us make energy optimisation and the strengthening of innovation by small and medium-sized enterprises the model of the european economic area, and improve - we save to create the scope for the necessary investments - the structures of economic policy to make us more sustainable in global competition.
the council has already taken a decision on this. the aim of this conference was to discuss how to reduce the factors that trigger migration, i.e. to put in place preventive measures. there are good examples where this has been done very effectively, such as in the democratic republic of congo, where european police units have provided judicial training and military assistance, resulting in the emergence of rule of law structures to generate more stability and to facilitate economic investment. are you prepared to extend this model to other african countries, since we know that the migration flows are not only from north africa, but also from central africa and the south, where we are seeing this instability?
the council has already taken a decision on this. if we want a sensible demographic development in europe, we must at all events drop our ideologically-corked and hypocritical blinders and not dream of a model of life that might have existed 200 years ago. there are not only traditional families, but also other models of life in which children are born. we see in the european union, in france, that demographic development works because there are enough and cheap childcare places. i'd be interested to know what you're planning to do about it.
mr president, i have a question on this subject. we agree that non-discrimination is a matter of time. in my own country, for example, there are efforts at present by authorities who are not acting at the state level but at a lower level to ban begging. they believe that they can offer solutions, so that at least certain phenomena do not occur. in my opinion, this is not the right way. what does the council think?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in international development cooperation, there has been a strong trend towards direct budgetary aid since the 1990s. the popularity of this instrument has increased in the context of the ongoing debate on improving aid effectiveness and on the achievement of the millennium development goals. this objective should be as important to the european union as a sound structural policy within the european union. budget support is considered a useful measure for achieving macroeconomic objectives or for large infrastructure programmes. however, in the absence of decentralisation in a country, it is questionable whether marginalised regions and sections of the population can particularly benefit from budget support. project support will therefore continue to be an important part of cooperation in order to achieve rapid and measurable results at local level. the main focus of community development cooperation must continue to be on justice and poverty reduction. corruption and financial mismanagement are among the most worrying issues related to budget support. direct budget support must promote the strengthening of civil society and accountability for the funds received must be established. it is important that the parliaments of the beneficiary countries are involved in the adoption of the budget and that the budget laws are published. the criteria for a country to be eligible for direct budget support are set out in article 61 of the cotonou partnership agreement. these criteria must be the basis and their compliance must be regularly monitored.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. defeat is often the greatest learning opportunity. this debate comes at a good time for you. in recent weeks, the issue that is likely to concern the next generation or generations most has finally been at the top of the political agenda: climate change. in this context, i would encourage you to review all your activities to see where you continue to promote things that we already know will eventually come back to haunt us because of climate change. where can you do much more? i refer, of course, to paragraph 6 of the report, the action plan for energy. there are ways to do this more fundamentally. you have a unique opportunity to show very clearly that there are projects that look far beyond the day to day, even in the european context. the subject of renewable energy is an infinitely large field, as is transport. but then there is also the sticker of an institution that has come to its senses in time, so that in 10-15 years you can say: yes, the investment bank has already promoted forward-looking loans. this brings me to paragraphs 19 and 21 of the report. please ensure that the final beneficiaries receive the money and that it does not get lost or get stuck in intermediary banks. take care of this ecological framework. i also believe that we urgently need less eu bureaucracy and more democracy.
in writing. i am voting for the action plan to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, because it is a major problem worldwide, which leads to a significant deterioration in the ecological state, contributes to overfishing of commercial and non-commercial fish stocks and other living creatures and causes difficulties for those social groups in developing and industrialized countries for whom fishing is the basis of their livelihood. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank you all for attending this discussion on tibet and especially today, when we have reached an important point, especially as solutions to a problem that has been simmering for decades are within reach. but that is only if the chinese government does not deliberately set up obstacles to certain issues. for example, it is not appropriate to focus on the historical question, i.e. to ask: was tibet ever part of china or was it not? that's a completely wrong question. we have to worry about the future here. it must be remembered that the dalai lama and the tibetan people themselves are seeking autonomy, and that autonomy is achieved, with cultural and religious freedoms and access to education. they don't question the one-china policy. this is something that must be stressed again and again, even if the statements made by the chinese embassy, which many of my colleagues have probably received in recent days, say something quite different. i can say that here you know how things are. we need a dialogue and we want that dialogue. europe must support him, and i agree with my predecessor on that point. europe must put the dialogue much more at the centre and also conduct it at an official level.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not on 8 january, the high commissioner for refugees issued an urgent appeal for funding for a new us$60 million aid programme to donor countries. the aim is to help hundreds of thousands of people displaced by the iraq conflict, regardless of their religious affiliation. the mass movements of refugees are the consequence of a war waged against the will of the international community, which now has to bear and finance the terrible consequences. the greatest long-term exodus since the expulsion of the palestinians in 1948 is currently taking place. one in eight iraqis is on the run. in 2006 alone, half a million people fled their countries, and 50,000 more are arriving every month. the un estimates that 1.7 million iraqis are currently displaced in iraq, and the unhcr expects 2.3 million by the end of 2007. the longer the conflict lasts, the more difficult the situation of the displaced and the communities that want to help them becomes. we call on the member states and the commission to support the high commissioner for refugees financially and politically in his work to protect refugees, whatever their religious beliefs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is well chosen, as is our agenda, that we first have a concise discussion of the berlin declaration. if it is worth anything, it should be discussed in a compact way and in the morning, and not after a long and perhaps somewhat problematic discussion in the council, with all the groups going back and forth. i think it is quite appropriate to have an hour's debate on the berlin declaration first and then to have a full discussion on the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr gahler is certainly right that this is an important problem which we should not ignore. but i think we should not replace the topic of nigeria. my proposal is to keep nigeria on the agenda and to take up the issue of women in iran at the next meeting in brussels, for example by a short oral question to the commission or the council on what they intend to do to support the women there. we'd be happy to agree. but this time we should leave the agenda as it is. i am therefore against the motion, but with the offer to deal with the subject in depth at another time, namely at the next partsession.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. if we do not succeed in securing social services better, but subject them more and more to the rules of competition, then there is no doubt that the european economy will be turned on its head. we had good economic growth in 2006 and more jobs were created, but poverty has continued to rise. it is therefore desirable that enterprises also take on their social responsibilities and participate in the provision of social services, or that the member states involve the social partners more closely in the development of the concept. the fight against poverty in europe must also be based on good social services. social services and car repairs are not the same. they're not the same. social services must be affordable and accessible. this requires a european legal framework, a sectoral directive and national solidarity on the part of the member states, but also a high sense of responsibility on the part of the european parliament and not everyday talk.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's cultural heritage is not lost, and that the community's cultural heritage is not lost. yes, there are shortcomings and they must be eliminated. but the way the commission has tried to do this, i think it is absolutely impossible. this report was marked by a great deal of lobbying. we got a lot of letters. you'll have received some, too, like one from writers and composers for choice. but if you read this letter and look at the signatures, you can't assume that all the artists really know what they're supposed to have signed here. i know people whose names appear on this list, but they have no idea that their names were used by an organization in such a letter. this is a bad sign for the efforts of some collecting societies to establish a monopoly in this field.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. our group believes that the commission has done a number of good things. we hope, however, that in the remainder of its term of office the commission, together with the european parliament, will be even more the driving force behind the development of the european union. we will give them our full support where the council is hesitating and wavering and where europe is not really moving forward. i would like to start with a positive example, energy policy, and in this context, of course, climate policy, a subject which is very close to your heart. it was absolutely right to insist that there should be binding targets, especially for renewable energy. it was also right to look for a pragmatic solution to the question of competitiveness. it was absolutely right to accept that there are different approaches to nuclear technology. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission should come forward with appropriate proposals. it is also important to go further in our external energy policy and to say that we want to diversify and to support diversification. it is absolutely essential that we also appoint the commission coordinators who will ensure that we make the various arrangements for energy supplies. if the polish government thinks it should develop an energy policy together with ukraine and some of the countries of the south caucasus, i hope that the commission will support it in the sense of a pan-european energy policy. secondly, also on external energy policy: i know that the commission is preparing a number of measures concerning cooperation with the black sea region and the mediterranean region. it is important that the commission does not allow itself to be hindered by the council in its proposals on energy cooperation, migration policy and, in particular, visa policy. i have greatly regretted that the commission did not cry out when the member states initially tightened up visa policy for our neighbours by demanding higher fees. i hope that it will succeed in negotiating a sensible visa policy with all our neighbours, especially, of course, the balkans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr nassauer is not wrong in his arguments about why many people in europe are sceptical of the european union, the commission and the european parliament. this is also due to the fact that the social dimension is under-emphasised in the commission's work. you yourself say that in the last documents you have published - whether they concern the internal market for citizens or the establishment of the social reality in europe - you have clearly stated why this scepticism and this distance have arisen and that the internal market only makes sense if the environmental and social consequences are also considered and these elements are also strengthened. but if i look at the specific proposals, there is too little of this social component. when i look at two studies recently published in europe - one on women's pay in the labour market and the other on poverty - it is a sad testimony to us that we have new poverty in europe and that the pay gap between men and women is still so wide. the social problem is not solved, and if we are in favour of the internal market, then the social component must also be taken into account. if we have had elections recently, on the left and on the right, which, in fact, due to social misery and the feeling that social issues are not taken into account, tend to lead to a narrow national economic policy, and people believe that this is how globalization can be mastered, then this is also due to the fact that we have not given citizens enough signals in the sense of 'yes to the internal market', but also 'yes to social europe'. this is very important to us and we want the commission to do more.
mr president, i should like to draw your attention to the fact that we need the legislative proposal you spoke about very soon, in order to finalise things with the council before the next election. there is real urgency in obtaining this proposal, especially as far as energy is concerned.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to begin by thanking mr el khadraoui. this agreement, which is now being discussed, will at last alleviate some of the economic injustices of europe's past, but it will in some ways ignore the challenges of the future. the question of air transport emissions has unfortunately been largely ignored, although we must be aware that, in the face of the climate problem, air transport will also have to contribute to reducing the atmospheric pollution. i still see a major problem in the fact that, unfortunately, reciprocity has not yet been fully established. we have to rely on a step-by-step plan here. if the united states does not respect this staged plan, we as a parliament must ensure that europe shows its backbone. this applies to investment, but it should and must also apply to the safety of data transmission and, above all, to the issue of emission limits. we must be careful that european interests are not sacrificed to certain sentimentality or that individual economic interests are not put above the whole. finally, commissioner, i would also like to thank you for mentioning - something that will make any theologian happy - that you are committed to open skies for all. a very democratic approach even for sinners!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in recent years we have heard more and more from the people of europe, but also from many european capitals, that europe is meddling in everything. this criticism is not entirely accidental and in a number of cases justified. but today's example in particular also shows that we need more europe on a whole range of issues and also more common ground in this europe. in this context, we can only welcome the conclusion of the open skies agreement between europe and the united states of america. this agreement will replace a great many individual agreements and will also serve as a model for many other agreements between the european union and other parts of the world. it's not easy to get a good deal with the americans. mr president, you have mentioned this and you have mentioned a number of examples. we know that the current congress may make it even more difficult to reach a common outcome. the united states must not, however, unilaterally take advantage of its negotiating position. i would reverse this and say that it would be good if the european commission and the council took even more account of the fact that the european parliament, as the representative of the people, wants to speak here than has been the case so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to review this and if necessary make changes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's very difficult to make a statement with all this noise. i would like to say, however, that i abstained because i consider the situation to be unsatisfactory. if germany and some long-term deficit-offenders are now on the road to recovery, i do not think that is a cause for celebration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that explains my vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to explain why i voted against the howitt report. the slogan 'corporate social responsibility' is now being used to try to achieve something that small and mediumsized enterprises in europe have always done: social responsibility is given a high priority and a corresponding corporate culture is anchored in smes. the misguided policy of the european union has, however, for years supported large corporations and public limited companies, for which an employee is merely a number to be exchanged, and which have slowly but surely pushed small and mediumsized enterprises out of the market. that is why i voted against this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the sartori report, as did the whole epp delegation, because we believe - and it is sad that we still have to say this - that it is still not possible for women to have a job, a career, children and a life of their own in all situations. we are in favour of freedom of choice here and of policies that create the conditions for women to have this opportunity, especially in terms of training, further training and equal pay for equal work.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr president of the council! the nuclear threat is a reality. unfortunately, it is also increasing, as you have also noted, with the mention of the two hot spots, iran and north korea. it is certainly necessary that we start preparing the review conference in time to set the necessary priorities. but much more importantly, we are now trying to take measures that will underpin the credibility of the international community and the credibility of the european union in implementing and enforcing the npt. because the quality of this contract will be measured by the successes it actually brings. at the moment i see the prospects for implementing such strategies as quite positive, especially when i, as chairman of the european parliament's delegation for relations with the korean peninsula, look at the situation in north korea and the contacts we have had with south and north korea. we have contributed as the european union and especially as parliament to the resumption of these six-party talks. we are a welcome partner. we are not part of the six-party talks, but we are welcome as a facilitator, as an outside supporter, and we have contributed to the resumption of the talks on 13 february. i'm cautiously optimistic. it will be about the implementation of disarmament: it has been guaranteed, and now action must follow in north korea. but conversely, it is also necessary that we as a union take action here to bring about a change in the overall political situation in north korea. we must support the programme on food security, regional security and human security, so that we can finally achieve a korean peninsula free of nuclear weapons, so that the present threat situation - also for europe - is no longer present.
the commission has already done so. it is important that member states strengthen the rights of passengers in this regulation. but it is also about the fact that we obviously made some things too practical for the airlines in the text at the time. firstly, we have no financial compensation for delays, and secondly, we have the problem that the rules on force majeure are so constructed that airlines all too often tell passengers that they cannot help it if it is a case of force majeure, when in reality there was only a bad booking situation. can we change that?
i would also like to say something on the same subject. i have recently received a lot of letters and e-mails, in particular, indicating that the implementation is not working well at all at the moment. i would like to join mr rack in saying that it seems that there is also a need not only to do things better but to change them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. i would be interested to know what you intend to do about it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the vienna-bratislava route is of particular concern in a new member state such as slovakia, especially since it can link two airports, which would naturally have a major impact on regional development. what is the situation on this route between vienna and bratislava and in particular between the two airports? it seems that there are three different routes to be discussed.
i have a rather general question on this subject: the routes of the transeuropean network have been defined for some time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to know whether in the future there could be a system which rewards those operators who actually build and build efficiently, so that they may benefit from funding more than those who are part of the ten but do not take any action at all. the question therefore is: what will the future look like with the design of ten routes?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the council decided this weekend to impose rules for a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020. do you think that our strength in europe, namely the production of diesel engines, could be enforced by a strategy of excellence in the field of efficiency, i.e. greater and stronger efforts to increase efficiency in the seventh framework research programme?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. as this is my first report in this house, i should first like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation, in particular mr becsey, mr degutis, mrs lichtenberger and mr kohlíček, but also the other groups, because i have seen how well, how concentrated and how consensual cooperation can be in such a matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a single airspace in principle, but we currently have 27 different safety standards, and that makes possible some things that i do not think are good. for example, less reputable companies are still able to choose their safety standards in europe, so to speak, depending on the country in which they want to be certified. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission proposal, as just presented by the commissioner, has therefore been expressly welcomed by me - and i think by the vast majority of this house - and by the commission. what we didn't always agree on was the path to this outcome that we wanted. i distinguish three main areas: we agreed that it was essential to control third country aircraft very efficiently and we also agreed that easa should be able to carry out so-called ramp inspections without hindrance. the decision on how to appoint the easa management board in the future was somewhat more difficult. the committee on transport has proposed in its vote a very positive europeanisation of the whole procedure and has made sure that there is a certain degree of transition from the member states to the council and the european parliament. the second essential question was: what should be the qualifications of the members of the management board? here too a satisfactory solution has been found. the question of possible easa sanctions was a little more difficult. there are different opinions in this house on this and we shall see how the matter turns out in the vote tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. on the one hand - and i have never made a secret of my conviction in this regard - we have not been able to agree on a more extensive certification scheme for cabin crew. it seems that there is a war of belief going on here - mr jarzembowski is waving at me as a proponent of this war of belief - in which there is an uncompromising for on the one hand and an uncompromising against on the other. i can only hope that the solution we have found now opens the door to a solution in the future, and that this future solution, in the interests of the cabin crew and, above all, in the interests of passenger safety, will not be too long in coming. the second question, where it was particularly difficult, is the one where it is always difficult, namely in the area of financing. the easa budget in 2006 was 70 million, partly financed by certification, partly by taxpayers' money. the problem with certification is that, firstly, it is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain funds for certain certification tasks and, secondly, there is a desire - which i share - not to burden small and mediumsized enterprises with the same costs of certification as large enterprises, which are much more easily able to do so with larger batches. it would have been an interesting solution to introduce a kind of passenger fee, considering that just 5 cents per ticket could finance half the easa budget. but that was not approved. i look forward to the vote tomorrow with great interest and i would like to conclude by thanking you once again for the good cooperation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to thank mr leichtfried for his efforts to reach a consensus on this subject, which at first only seemed superficially easy to deal with. of course, it seems logical to everyone at first that with a single airspace we also need uniform standards and uniform and strong controls if we want to ensure safety. we must also draw the necessary conclusions from our debate on the so-called black lists and ensure that third country policies can be examined with the same rigor and precision as is the case in our own house. we have created some conditions. the management board, as now proposed, is somewhat more active and faster than it has been so far. in the case of financing, we must not forget the usual fee for the certification of aircraft, which is clearly not to be replaced by any levies, but also certain charges for services which are not covered by this area and which are not and cannot be used commercially. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. that's a question we need to answer. we must create standards here which also protect against poor working conditions and against social dumping or safety dumping. another future challenge will be to reduce emissions from aviation to an acceptable level and to align them with the european union's climate target.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not we also regard the eu summit on climate change as a positive event, but more in terms of its intentions than its results. on the one hand, it is good and important for our future that climate targets were agreed at the eu summit, but on the other hand, it is a sad fact that such commitments are often not even worth the paper they are written on. what is the point of reaching an agreement to reduce co2 emissions by one fifth by 2020 if the eu's usual practice is to postpone the finalisation of problematic details? i think that we have not made any progress in the field of nuclear energy. the disposal of radioactive waste remains unsolved, as does the safety of nuclear power stations and the effects of nuclear radiation are far from being fully understood. the european union has not yet succeeded in making a clear commitment to reduce nuclear energy. instead, the danger of global warming should be tackled with nuclear risk - a risky thing in my view. it is also good that the eu is taking a leading role in climate action. but since it only accounts for 15% of global carbon dioxide emissions, these are just small fish. alone, without the big climate sinners india, china, south korea, japan, australia and the united states, which are responsible for almost half of the world's greenhouse gas production, we will make little headway in the fight against climate change. we will have to face severe setbacks, despite all our efforts. you don't have to be a prophet to see this coming. it has long been known that the developing countries, especially the energy-wasting united states, do not give a damn about the environment. it is a shame that even us military bases in europe have not been environmentally friendly in any way and that abandoned us bases have almost become special waste dumps. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in 1997, the industrialized countries committed themselves to reducing their greenhouse gas emissions. at the 2005 world conference, the world once again vowed to rely more on solar, wind and hydroelectric power. of course, noble words have hardly been followed by action. the eu has gone from increasing its own share of renewable energy to 12% to just 8%. we need to make a new kind of lip service, as we have heard this time, not to celebrate it as a great success. this is more likely to remind us of other eu projects that have failed for the time being, such as the lisbon objectives, which are also light years away from being achieved, apart from the alpine convention, which is another part of this mourning, but which has been barely implemented. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of climate change is a very important one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. ladies and gentlemen, the first step in the right direction towards a common energy and climate policy has been taken, and we welcome the fact that no hot air has been produced. the environment for political decision-making has improved, but we are far from there. most of the hurdles are still ahead of us. the first is to integrate fully the agreed objectives into, or complement, the growth, employment and competition policy programmes. climate and energy policy must strengthen the lisbon strategy, not distract from it. secondly, the presentation of concrete european programmes, projects and measures and the drawing up of verifiable necessary action plans will have to wait. everyone must know who is doing what, by when and how, in order to achieve the common goals. this is important, because although the summit objectives give hope, only concrete results give confidence. i therefore ask that we receive an annual report from the member states to the national parliaments and from the commission to the european parliament on the results of implementation. thirdly, when will we receive the research programme, the necessary funding concepts and the energy saving roadmap from the commission and the national governments? the test is yet to come, both internally and internationally. it's not delivered yet. as catherine of siena said, it is not the beginning that is rewarded, but the endurance alone.
in writing. the outcome of the eu summit is certainly an important step in the right direction. it is of the utmost importance for our future, and especially for that of our children, that we vigorously oppose an average temperature rise of more than 2 degrees celsius. i therefore consider the decision to obtain 20% of our energy from renewable sources and to achieve a 20% reduction in co2 emissions in the eu by 2020 to be essential. i therefore expressly welcome the fact that our heads of state have now been able to come to such a decision. i am aware, and i think my colleagues will agree, that these steps are only the beginning, and more efforts will have to follow to ensure a lasting and sustainable climate protection. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i am convinced, however, that new and strict environmental standards will not be an economic disadvantage for europe, but on the contrary will lead europe in new technologies. in this way we will both help our environment and secure quality jobs in europe in the long term. i also call for increased efforts to convince the big environmental offenders, such as the usa or china, of the importance of climate protection, because only together can sustainable success be achieved.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not it is a translation note to amendment no 10 on article 1 (5) to article 6b (4). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the original document states in the amendment, and i quote in english: 'those involved in commercial operations shall hold an attestation as referred to in article 4 (1) (a) of the treaty'. the text adopted by the committee is however: 'those involved in commercial operations shall hold an attestation as initially described in' etc., and requests that this be taken into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the report, but i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the situation of the agencies. we now have 33 agencies in the european union, a thirty-fourth has already been announced by the commission. the cost is now more than a billion euros a year. the agency employs 2 700 staff and 60-70% of its costs are pure administrative costs. there seems to be a development in progress which i should like to draw to your attention. i would ask that a review be made of the performance, efficiency and usefulness of all the agencies and then that it be considered which agencies can be closed down if they do not add value to the work of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. i am voting against the report by mrs bernadette bourzai on the marketing of beef from animals aged 12 months or less. the final consumer must not only be able to read the age of an animal for slaughter and the usual information on the label, such as product, weight, price and expiry date, but also be informed of the number of kilometres travelled by the animals alive for slaughter. the european consumers must be able to identify quickly and easily when buying how long the meat they want has been transported alive before slaughter, so that they can then make their individual purchase decision.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the hasse ferreira report because we are on the verge of a social crash-landing. while less and less money is going into the social security funds, the number of those who are dependent on the state despite working is increasing. if we downgrade mothers to permanent welfare recipients, if it is not possible to live by honest work, and if children are a sure path to poverty, then we need not be surprised at the waning enthusiasm for the eu or the spectre of childlessness. i believe that it is long overdue to collect and disclose the real costs of economic migration, economic asylum seekers and illegal immigrants within the eu, and in particular the burden they place on our social systems. the illusory hope that foreign migrants will compensate for our childlessness and care for our elderly must finally be thrown overboard by multicultural dreamers, so that the native european population does not slowly but surely sink into the tidal wave of the social cost explosion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have supported the resolution because the preparatory work for the review conference is absolutely necessary and useful at the present time. the quality of the npt and all the additional protocols is measured by its success. we should therefore take the opportunity that has now arisen with the resumption of the six-party talks towards the denuclearisation of north korea. the european union has made a major contribution - and we in particular, as the european parliament, have done so - to the resumption of these talks, to the so-called beijing agreement with concrete measures. but now it is a matter of actually supporting the implementation of these measures, which have been decided upon, in the sense of denuclearising north korea, and i expect the european union to give its full support to measures to promote food security, that is to say agricultural development aid, regional security, that is to say the improvement of diplomatic relations in the region, and measures to promote human rights. the aim must be to achieve the elimination of nuclear weapons in north korea in the shortest possible time and to achieve a change of regime in north korea in the interests of peace and stability in the whole region.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would of course like to congratulate mrs doris pack very warmly on her very engaged and ultimately balanced report, which expresses the opinion of parliament as a whole. let 's face it . we have two strong men in bosnia and herzegovina today, mr dodik and mr silajdžić. mr dodik has made difficulties in police reform with perhaps some right arguments. mr silajdžić has made difficulties in the constitutional reform - perhaps with some correct arguments. now these two strong men must join with everyone else to ensure that we get police reform and constitutional reform. i am sure that in the coming days the commissioner will make it very clear to them and to all the others - including the new prime minister - that these are the tasks they have to fulfil if they want to be positive in the face of history. secondly, i believe - and i am addressing this in particular to minister erler - that we must speak with a clear voice in bosnia and herzegovina when it comes to the appointment of a high representative also on the part of the european union. but i am naturally also addressing the commissioner in this context, because it is not clear to the citizens on the ground who is speaking for the european union here. the european union representative should send a clear message. finally, on visas: if we do not provide the people in the region with the opportunity to learn european values, european behaviour and european dialogue through visa facilitation, then we can make many decisions, but we will not put them into practice. we must therefore speedily get visa facilitation so that we can really bring the people of this region to europe with heart and mind.
i have a rather specific question which arose in the course of our discussion of this subject. it is a question of the clash between two philosophies: on the one hand, as in austria and in your country, the existence of a so-called prohibition law which criminalizes certain expressions of opinion, and on the other hand the primacy of free speech, which is, so to speak, above such regulations in other european countries. what is the state of discussions in the council on this question?
i wonder if it would be possible to set up a reporting office at european level where we could electronically report what we consider to be particularly offensive.
you yourself have mentioned turkey in direct comparison. the commission has also decided to open negotiations with the united states on the basis of the following proposals: in the council's view, is there really a difference in the speed of the negotiation process, or is it simply a formality that will have an effect at some point?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this morning, at the best media time, we celebrated the union as a community of law in the debate on the berlin declaration, and we all agreed that what holds this community of law together at its core is human dignity and fundamental rights and freedoms. we are discussing the everyday life of this community of law, the arduous enforcement and protection of these fundamental rights and freedoms, at a late hour this evening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is that the union has tough laws, concrete objectives, sanctions, a lot of money, tough measures, hard law to enforce its economic and monetary objectives. the european union's fundamental rights and freedoms always rely on soft law. the charter of fundamental rights is not yet binding. some member states are even calling for their removal from the constitution. the eu is not a member of the european commission of human rights. europol, eurojust, frontex, etc. are not covered by the european convention on human rights. police cooperation is still not a community right and is beyond the control of national parliaments and the european parliament. a grey area of fundamental rights is emerging in europe. the second irritation -- i see it in my constitutional debates more and more: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. the cia affair, the illegal abductions, the illegal overflights, the lack of cooperation by governments have contributed to this, as have the negative judgments of the ecj on the transfer of passenger data and swift bank data or the lack of legal bases for union action. all this is damaging the people's long-standing confidence in the union's ability and will to defend these fundamental rights without compromise. the third irritation concerns the commission's control. i do not know how many times we in this parliament should ask the commission to be more systematic, less restrictive and more public in its work and in its proposals for the protection of fundamental rights. that it should involve civil society as well as independent experts and organisations more closely. we did that in the article 7 report. we did that with the reports to the human rights agency. we did that with the accession treaties. no, the commission is uncertain and unresolved in this area. the commission's reasoning is often not clear, and the pressure on the council and the member states is all too often too weak. we welcome the procedure for enforcing the charter of fundamental rights in the context of the commission's legislative initiatives. it's a step forward. but it is not enough, and it is sick of all the things that this parliament has shown so often. the fundamental rights test cannot be smuggled into the social, environmental and economic criteria. it has to be its own criteria. every legislative initiative by the commission must be subject to a fundamental rights audit and each audit must be justified and documented. how many times have we asked - and we will ask again - that the commission should show greater respect for the european parliament's special responsibility as the advocate of the citizens of europe in the protection of fundamental rights. we have done so with article 7, with the agency and with the accession negotiations. we have called for greater involvement of ngos, international organizations, the human rights agency. how many times are we gonna have to sue? how many times must we call for a permanent dialogue between the institutions? the commission rightly - and this is perhaps the most outstanding part of your proposal - speaks of the development of a culture of fundamental rights in europe. we share this ambition and support it. but this requires a systematic, constant and open dialogue between the institutions. but this also requires the corresponding reports. this also requires the right of the institutions to point out any shortcomings and abuses in the member states. it is also essential that your system of control be extended to government cooperation and to comitology. we are making our demands again. we're doing it late, no publicity, not at all. but i think it is really time for the commission to meet parliament's wishes and demands in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr voggenhuber on his report and support him in his fight for more rights for our citizens. as a representative of the business community, i have to say that it is true that in the internal market we have fully implemented the rights of the european parliament and the european institutions. here we can carry out a rationalization process for the 27 member states, for 500 million citizens, and ensure that not 27 different regulations apply, but one regulation which has been decided in good cooperation. i would also like to stress that i am very concerned about having an equally solid foundation in the area of fundamental rights. and if mr hannan says that france and the netherlands voted against it, i can only say that spain voted in favour of this project with a clear majority in a direct referendum. and if you add the populations of the three countries together, you have a clear majority. the majority of the european people are behind us. the european parliament has voted overwhelmingly in favour of this, and all the governments of europe have voted unanimously in favour of it. what vote do we need to win democracy in europe, and not stop at a geographical border and measure democracy by kilometres rather than by principles?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is not just greek cypriots who are missing. there are also turkish cypriots missing. the high level contact group for relations with the turkish cypriot population in parliament has seen first-hand the exemplary cooperation of the committee on missing persons. it is the only bi-communal initiative in cyprus that is running smoothly. the cypriot people on both sides have a great interest in working out this really dark chapter of our common history. eyewitnesses give scientists clues about possible sites. we have seen with our own eyes the professionalism of the international team, led by an argentinian, in identifying the human remains. it is good that we are now paying attention to this committee and hopefully also giving more financial resources. but beware, i warn against political abuse of this subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would not be the first time, because the much needed technical committees, which should have been set up long ago for smooth cooperation between the two populations for everyday needs such as health, the fight against crime, trade facilitation, have failed for three years. why do you think that is? the citizens of cyprus will not refuse. it is the spirit of negative power politics, of prevention politics, which has prevented the two sides from working together for decades.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i have been informed just before the vote of a problem which is very easy to solve. paragraph 15 of the rules of procedure reads as follows: 'intents to amend rule 34 of its rules of procedure'. since we need a different majority for rules of procedure than for this vote, the word 'intentionally' seems too definitive to some. i would therefore suggest that paragraph 15 be amended to read as follows: 'consider an amendment to the rules of procedure'. i hope that the ppe-de group can also agree to this amendment of the article.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unlike my predecessor, i believe that this resolution on bird hunting in malta is a very important resolution. the european parliament has already shown on several occasions that animal welfare and compliance with the animal welfare legislation we have in the european union is an important concern. in this sense, this resolution is very important, even though we have had a very strong headwind from the other side of this chamber.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report on a negotiating mandate for an eu-andean association agreement, if the asymmetries between the individual member countries of the andean pact are taken into account in the negotiation of a free trade area (taking into account the different economic levels, demographic circumstances, different political courses, the great lack of modern communication and transport infrastructures between the individual member states). the introduction of nuclear labour standards and the fight against drug and arms trafficking are also important.
mr president, madam president of the council! i feel a little uncertain today because, after 12 years in this house, i have no experience of praising council presidencies. but your work forces me to. the last great europeans who spoke here, mitterrand and juncker after his presidency of the council, were europeans who were desperate to melancholy. i am very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the future of the union, and i am very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the future of the union. the berlin declaration lacks 26 signatures of heads of state or government 26 signatures under a declaration on the anniversary, a declaration full of self-evidence. but yours is not missing. they have for the first time stepped out of this machinery of mutual blockages, fences, obstacles and traps and have come to terms with themselves. that deserves all the respect. i would have liked to see more attention paid to the disappointed expectations of the people and the crisis of confidence in the union, alongside the successes. i congratulate you and i pay you my respects for having rescued this constitutional project from the ice. it was a piece of leadership, it was a curry, even on thin ice. let me give you two more things to consider: firstly, your aim is the only one that europe can pursue now. but is this method suitable? the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. is your objective attainable by a method of horse-drawn couriers between state chancelleries, which will always give you only one message, namely the old desires and the old claims of the national governments? secondly, the charter of fundamental rights. i appeal to you, madam president-in-office. if the bill of rights is ripped out of this constitutional treaty, you will be splitting the great pro-constitutional movement. then the outcome is not acceptable to many of us who fought for this constitution. fundamental rights are at the heart of this european project.
i have to say, madam president, we shall be voting in favour of the lagendijk report tomorrow in this house - i think by a very large majority. but above all, it is about approving the work of mr ahtisaari and his staff. i believe that the position proposed by mr ahtisaari is essentially the way to go. the question that is asked again and again is: independence, yes or no? that decision is taken by the united nations, and i hope that after all the necessary consideration they will make the right decision. we will support this decision in full. the real question is what happens after the status issue is resolved. the status issue will not be easy for serbia to resolve no one likes to lose a substantial part of their territory; let's imagine that for our own country. the resolution of the status issue will not solve the problems facing kosovo as such, because the difficulty of establishing an independent economic and social system is only beginning. the people of kosovo will then ask: where is my job now, where is my opportunity to earn money, to build a house, etc. and that will be difficult enough in their own country. our task in europe - and this is supported and underlined by the report we are voting on tomorrow - is to help both sides to support this difficult process with reason, with decency, mutual respect and cooperation. that's what's important to us, including the decision tomorrow. we are committed to a clear decision on the status issue, but we are also committed to the need to support both sides in europe - and especially in this parliament - in order to ensure a good future for both kosovo and serbia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that i am now speaking on my third attempt, but i can see that - even if the group chairmen take this opportunity - you do not have as many chances as a small backbencher. i am very critical of the intention of the polish government to expel sick people - including citizens of the european union - from the country. i regard this as a massive attack on the fundamental freedoms of the european union, such as the freedom of establishment and the free movement of persons. i call on the european commission to take the necessary steps immediately to put an end to these constant provocations by the two brothers at the head of the government. i would also like to know why the commission is taking action immediately in so many areas, such as the question of german students in austria, but is doing nothing at all on such massive problems. i think it is a scandal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank mrs beer very much for her really engaging report. organic farming is of great public interest; it is very diverse and also of very different importance in the member states. the subject is therefore also very emotional and controversial. in this context, genetically modified organisms in organic farming always pose a major problem. that is why i am in favour of the 0.0 per cent limit for organic farming, because what we label as gm-free must also be gm-free. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the future of organic farming is in the hands of consumers. they decide if they're willing to pay more for natural and non-gmo food. the increase in sales of organic products in recent years clearly confirms that the population values this quality. but it is important that the buyer knows where the food comes from. we must ensure that the european organic labels are only used for products from the member states which also meet these criteria. i very much welcome the future use of logos, the intended precise labelling of products and the associated possibility of traceability, because this also allows for better control. it is necessary that the interests of producers and consumers be taken into account in equal measure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the cap. the 197 amendments tabled, however, show that we are not really in a position to vote on the report at the moment. i therefore support the rapporteur on amendments nos 37 and 39. (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, i look into the eyes of a man whom i consider to be highly intelligent, mr böge, and there are a number of others in this room who are known to be able to add up to one and one. then i look at this report and i think, "where are you?" how unrealistic is that? as an academic discourse, it may have its value, but that alone would not be worth this room. who in the world buys a product that they're not convinced is worth the price? we must first of all correct and sum up what the eu is doing - and, above all, what it is not doing - and then move quickly to bring funding up to the right level: the agricultural sector, the cohesion fund, the continuation of so many pots and programmes which should have taken care of themselves. that's where we have to start. i think that the proposal - which also comes from your country, and i think even from your group, mr böge - to see whether we do not have net payments in some areas is reasonable, because it allows for control. if that is not enough and we need our own resources, then we can talk about a lot of things, but not as much as we are doing now. i am also of the opinion that we urgently need less bureaucracy and more democracy, especially in this case.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have already discussed the connection between the new constitution and the debate we are now having. whoever pays, orders, is the saying in our country. we have seen in the past that a union which is only 85-90% financed by national contributions is at the end of its latin. we know this, and that is why we need more european own resources. if you say we can continue with this system as it is, improve things, increase integration, adopt more policies, you are lying to the voters. i think that we must therefore be a little more specific in our reports in the future. i think that mr lamassoure has done a good job. but who has the nerve to say things that may not be appropriate for every tabloid? we need more own resources, which means we must have the courage to tax europe. it is a place where things can drift apart, where different approaches can be advocated. the commission has already made some sensible proposals. i only halfheartedly agree with this report because we need more european own resources if the work of european integration is to have a future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm going to start with what has changed professional sports the most in the last few years: money. the biggest money a professional can make is by selling tv rights. the larger the national television market, the higher the revenues of the associations, their budget, their purchasing power. it is no coincidence that clubs from large member states almost invariably play in the group stage of the champions league. as in other areas of the unbridled market economy, this imbalance leads to a rapidly growing gap between the rich and the poor. on the one hand, billionaire companies like real madrid, on the other, bankrupt clubs like sturm graz. that's unsporting and unfair. what can small member states do to correct this imbalance? we need new leagues, we need to get out of this narrow nation-state mentality. we must become more european, also in football. i also believe that we should not buy and trade young talents, but allocate them to clubs by lottery, as is the practice in the united states. weaker clubs get more tickets, have higher chances than top clubs. if money alone is the key to football, europe's most popular cultural asset will lose what it is: its sporting spirit.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank mr belet for his initiative and cooperation. i hope that we can stick to what we have worked out on compromise and that we do not change a lot at the last moment and then go down on our knees in front of some people. we have dealt with the problems facing football today in this report and have dealt with them. what we do not want is more regulation at eu level, but legal clarity between the existing rules to prevent the elimination of a meaningful football rule. it is not the case that all the problems that arise can then be settled, for example, only before the european court of justice. we also did not want to fight against the big clubs and carry out so-called attacks against the traditional clubs, but to work for a fair balance between small and big clubs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the commission has also taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a few brief comments at midnight. i believe that today more than ever we must ensure that our agricultural structures are preserved and that we are self-sufficient. we must also recognize the continuing loss of livestock and the threatened devastation of entire areas of land by rural flight as a major new challenge. we must also ensure that the wishes of the 70% of the eu population who have spoken out against genetically modified food are respected. finally, we must be sensitive to the new eu member states, bearing in mind that, as they join the eu, agricultural products from these countries often prove to be a export hit, leading to supply shortages in their own countries and ruinous price wars in the destination country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr high commissioner, i would first like to congratulate you on your commitment to the middle east. this is an absolutely important task, and i wish you every success. of course, as members of parliament we have the opportunity to think a little more flexibly and freely, and i would therefore like to take up what my colleague, véronique de keyser, has said. we are the representatives of democracy. democracy, or part of democracy, is elections. so what we have done in palestine after the elections that were demanded by us is very critical. i am absolutely in agreement with the line that we must demand from the government in palestine that it commits itself to the peace process and is prepared to renounce terrorism. now we have the opportunity to have such a government. we are not asking israel to give up all settlement activity permanently. israel does not really recognize the 1967 border as the border of two states that recognize each other. we demand it, but israel does not. so we have to be fair and balanced. we must ask both sides to contribute to peace and support both sides in this process. the european union must therefore also take a clear path in this direction. we must not lose the opportunity we have with this government, however unpopular one or another of its representatives may be. i must say that i do not particularly like mr liebermann on the israeli side. but as unfriendly as some people may be to us, we must seize the opportunity to make peace here, especially in the interests of europe. secondly, because i am speaking of democracy, we all have great difficulties when we have to cooperate with countries which are not democratically organized for the sake of peace. we have mentioned saudi arabia today. i hope that saudi arabia will succeed in making a substantial contribution to peace. the same is true of egypt. but we must not give up our fight for democracy because of that. we must make it clear to egypt, for example, that what has happened in the last few days - a constitutional change with a so-called referendum called within a few days, in which only 30% of the population participated - is unacceptable. we must stand for both, for peace, but also for democracy in the middle east. we have to connect the two. that is the european task!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you have rightly pointed out that we have a very large number of votes. obviously we now have votes where we have almost total approval all the time. who asked for separate votes or for us not to be able to vote en bloc?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we agree. but i would encourage you to do the following: these are amendments on which we have agreed with the council. if that is the case, then the committee should convene a short meeting, decide that, and then we'll have it done in a minute. there's no way we're doing the committee's work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we agree that we should vote en bloc. but next time, let the committee discuss and decide before the plenary, so we can deal with it in a minute. i would like to see this forwarded to the chairman of the committee.
in writing. on the occasion of the recent amendment of the european directive on medical devices, i am in favour of the european parliament's call for a logical separation of regulation and for the subject of recycling to be regulated in a separate directive. we must, as representatives of the people, be more active in promoting sensible and understandable regulations. we must resist the temptation to try to lump together different regulatory matters. the commission must now submit a proposal for a separate directive as soon as possible; not in three years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think everyone will agree with me that medicines should contain as few or no harmful substances as possible. therefore, the objective must be an effective phase-out of all cmr substances. i would like to stress once again the need for meaningful product labelling. the labelling favoured by the commission through the global medical device nomenclature is wrong in my view. the code is costly. these are mainly borne by european producers and the general public. it's not good for the competition, and it's not good for the patient.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the catania report in view of the european football championship, which will also be held in austria next year. i think there are some worrying developments in professional football. on the one hand, there is fraud, unfair financial practices and unfair competition, which we now have to combat at eu level. in addition, the level of violence in football is skyrocketing. a few supposed fans keep hundreds of police officers breathing, who then disappear elsewhere or cause high costs. it makes sense to intercept hooligans at the border. stadiums should have separate entrances and exits for the different groups. it is not enough to ban banners and posters calling for violence, but also to significantly tighten the penalties against such disruptions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted against the lagendijk report because it seems to me extremely dangerous to say that the potential for negotiations has now been exhausted and that independence for the province of kosovo is to be proposed. i think this is a dangerous experiment. the current situation reminds me strikingly of the situation at the beginning of the croatian war, which began with the declaration of independence of croatia. if we do not act with extreme sensitivity and, above all, if we do not find real solutions before the un administration withdraws and a power vacuum is created, then either the serbs will want to protect their compatriots or the kosovo albanians will want to protect their right to self-determination. we have not only destroyed all progress and all convergence in a very short time, but we may have destabilised the whole region once again. that is why i voted against it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. it is true that the mass import of counterfeit products is causing great damage to the european economy, especially in the area of quality production. yes, i am in favour of doing something about it. the aim is to create a way of making the large criminal organizations, which have already been dealt with, more punishable or more liable to prosecution by means of european law. we're all agreed on that. how this should be done, however, is a matter of dispute. i would like to thank mr zingaretti very much for his report. he has made a great effort to really bring about an agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the environmental aspects of the directive are not overlooked. in european law we are supposed to be dealing with something that the member states cannot do alone, especially when it comes to criminal law, and that is in this case dealing with large criminal organizations. we need a precise definition of the scope of this regulation. if we leave it open - as some people want - or if we want to include consumers in this, then we will be shooting at sparrows with guns and will not be able to really hit the big organizations that are doing such a great deal of damage to the european economy. if we do not have a precise definition, we may be able to impose penalties on small businesses, who often do not know whose goods they are selling or where they are coming from. this is especially true of young people. the majority of young people in europe cannot distinguish between what they can and cannot download from the internet. we certainly don't want to criminalize end users. we want to concentrate on the points where european law has its place. the other is covered by national law. and if mr manders wants to raise awareness among consumers, i would just like to say one thing to him: if you get a gucci bag for 10 euros, then that may be recognizable to a consumer, but that is not the case for many other products. i do not want european law to be applied excessively where it is not useful. we must develop the fields of application, especially in the commercial field ........ (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. as a member of the committee of the regions, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for having succeeded in shedding critical light on the politically important, but at the same time extremely sensitive, aspect of regional policy in the context of future enlargements of the european union. european regional policy must not only respond to the tight public budgetary situation and increasing competitive pressures within the 27 member states, but also meet the expectations of european structural policy and the lisbon strategy, while maintaining its capacity to act. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for having shown very clearly that the maintenance of cohesion policy objectives can only be achieved by a gradual approach in the enlargement process and by efficiency-enhancing reforms. it is against this background that the concept of an 'enhanced neighbourhood policy' should be defined more broadly and, particularly with regard to turkey, that there should be an open discussion on the extent to which accession or a privileged partnership can be beneficial for all concerned. we, as members of the european parliament and representatives of the citizens, owe it to the people not only of the new member states but also of the old ones to pursue a regional policy which will continue to produce balancing and growth-oriented effects and thus guarantee the cohesion of the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that when a small group of people sit together so late at night and you actually know each other's arguments quite well, you can even try to encourage one another. i think that there is already a little movement in the commission's area, but that we would like to see a little more from the few. i agree with my predecessor: the result orientation would be very nice, but you can be much more modest and still be almost revolutionary in your context. in concrete terms, it is still very difficult for citizens to understand who is doing what with how much money within the commission. which authorities are actually working for what? try to find out quickly on the internet what the net contribution of the federal republic of germany was last year or in 2005. it's going to take you a long time to find any information on that. or information about which project is being funded where and how. i click on the country, i want to know what's being promoted in my region. no information from the fbi. it's not possible. if we had the necessary transparency, i am convinced that we would have a much better and more qualitative debate on the good and the bad than we have today. i hope, of course, that we will be able to get started if this is made mandatory throughout europe, for example in the field of agricultural subsidies. but again, there will be a lack of practical implementation. i would like to refer you to my successors on the subject of agencies. it is also a good example of how to live transparency.
i have to say, madam president, in such a discharge procedure, one should not only look at the past but also draw conclusions. i am sure that the commissioner is listening very carefully to what is being said in the field of agencies and is aware of the growing dissatisfaction of those who want a little control in many areas. there's been a significant pallawatch and a wild growth. i am sure, commissioner kallas, that you are also aware of the direction in which the trilogue negotiations are heading. it is very disturbing that even members of the committee on budgets, who have been dealing with this issue for years, keep stressing that they themselves have no overview and that there is no clear distinction between the operating and the administrative budget, so that there is obviously a massive amount of fraud and, above all, administrative expenditure is hidden in programmes. this is diametrically opposed to your intention, commissioner, to make your activities transparent, and i would encourage you to try to implement in your own sector what you have already done in the agricultural sector, namely to disclose the use of funds down to the last euro. any modern company can do that. there are always cost points and clear allocations. in fact, when you travel for work, you know exactly what you've done. that's not the case here. i think that is extremely regrettable and harmful. i am sure you will agree, commissioner, that the overall reduction should be made because efficiency clearly requires fewer staff and not the other way around, as is currently the case.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur and our rapporteurs. it is important for taxpayers to see that serious work is being done here in parliament to protect their money. i am well aware - and this is what mrs gräßle wanted to say - that it is always a little difficult to filter out the main points of a large concert of wishes. but this very technical problem is a challenge for our committee. i think that the problem has been solved very well and we will continue to follow up the issues raised. we want to close the gap in the invekos system. i am grateful for the support of the commission, which has been reassured by vice-president kallas. we want to be able to stand before the electorate and say: the agricultural policy is demonstrably clean. we're getting close! there is progress, and that gives us great courage. secondly, we want the member states to be responsible for the 80% of the 100 billion budget that is spent in their countries. i think it is a disgrace that the council is not here today! we will remind the gentlemen - today they are from germany, another day from another member state, i do not want to single out individual countries - of this when they stand before their citizens again and say: my god, what a mess in brussels! when we discuss these things, the member states are not there. this is something we cannot afford to do to our taxpayers. this is also true of the leadership of this parliament: it is not the secretary-general or the president who is in the chamber. i say this without wanting to doubt your competence, madam vice-president. we want to make sure that the member states are standing up straight in the future. a final point is that - mr kallas, this statement has bothered me a little and should not be repeated - the court of auditors is there to control and criticize the commission and not the other way around. that is the way it is in a democratic state.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today's discussion on the fight against hiv/aids in the european union and in neighbouring countries is important because we sometimes forget the facts here in this house too. hiv/aids remains a menacing disease, not only in african countries but also in our member states and neighbouring countries. there is an increase in hiv infections, and the estimated number of people infected - this has been said several times today - is three times the official number. it is good that all the european institutions are once again speaking out in favour of an effective fight against this menacing disease. i can only share commissioner kyprianou's frustration: after many years of thinking that the information had reached the new generation, we are now faced with these numbers of new infections and this kind of misinformation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's action in this field. because it is very surprising that people still believe that you can get infected by a kiss or a glass of water, and that in this area, where education and prevention should be done, much too little is done. i am also shocked to see how the information and education measures of the ministers responsible in some member states are taken up by some religious groups. we must also make our political position clear. it is also about ensuring that existing eu laws are respected. we must insist that the directive setting quality and safety standards for the collection, processing and distribution of human blood be fully implemented in all member states, including to protect the people in our member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. before we come to the discharge to the council, i would like to point out to the house that the council was not present at the debate and, as we see, is not present at the decision on the discharge to the european budget of the commission and the other institutions. we think that this is an untenable situation, given that 80% of the union's budget is spent through the member states and that the member states are also responsible for this money. we expect the council to present a concrete action plan for the preparation of the national declarations of assurance in the coming months. (applause from the centre and the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the pieper report because i welcome the fact that the eu finally seems to be recognising that turkey's accession would overwhelm us financially, politically and socially. the eu has already made progress in the area of the free movement of persons, and the eu is working to develop a common approach to the problem of free movement of persons. existing disparities between member states, but also between regions, have been exacerbated by the latest wave of enlargement, globalisation and ageing, and also by migration from third countries to urban centres. while cities like london, hamburg and brussels may be among the most prosperous areas, as the eu homepage shows, it is important to remember that the gap has widened and that slums have already formed. we have seen in france where this can lead. it is therefore high time that we paid more attention to internal cohesion and thereby dismantled existing social powder kegs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the virrankoski report because budgetary control would be made more efficient in the run-up to the 2009 revision of the eu budget, which is intended to bring more transparency by, among other things, untangling the discount jungle. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are having a very good debate on maritime transport today, but it is taking a little longer than usual. i shall try to make up for lost time here and i shall confine myself to one point which is important to me. the costa report deals with the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the liability of carriers of passengers by sea and inland waterway in the event of accidents. i am concerned to ensure that what was decided on the high seas with good reason at the time - the athens convention and the relevant regulations - is not now being extended in an undifferentiated form to inland waterway transport. it has been said that we may be doing more harm than good here. i would ask you to support our amendments which we have put to the vote.
i'm not going to tell you. i would like to put the question a little more generally. you mentioned earlier in a first reply that as commissioner you are the guardian of laws and treaties. you can't get around that, i know, but you're also a lawmaker. i would therefore like to know whether it would not be sensible in your view for the commission to finally take a step in the direction of making laws not only for the big companies, for the economy and for all of them to benefit on a large scale, but also for the workers so that these things will be a little less common in the future.
i'm not going to tell you. you have already indicated that your colleague, mr barrot, will give us the answers later. i would like to make one point very clear again: six months have now passed since the new rules were introduced. on no single day in these six months has there been any report of success that this measure has prevented or impeded terrorist activity. but every single day we have had hundreds of reports of european citizens feeling uncomfortable. there must be something wrong with that. can you give the commissioner the opportunity to review and withdraw these measures or to inform him in an appropriate manner?
i'm not going to tell you. are you aware that it is becoming increasingly difficult for parents who do not work in the european institutions to place their children in european schools? this leads to a certain ghettoization and, above all, to a further decline in acceptance by the population of brussels. secondly, i would like to ask you how it was possible to decide to set up the fourth school in laeken, given the very poor infrastructure of public transport. the buses that are being set up also have to travel all over the city, and the students lose a lot of time. why was no better place found with the belgian authorities?
i'm not going to tell you. we have adopted a directive on energy efficiency for building permits. do you know of any european union building where the energy efficiency of the building is indicated by a sign at the entrance?
- i'm not sure. disadvantaged groups also have problems with hygiene requirements in the first place. what is your view of the development of water policy and waste water strategy, particularly in less-favoured areas?
the rapporteur. the commission is not i thank you very much for your words, commissioner. i would also like to thank my colleagues for the fact that we have managed to produce a report which is very consistent in its main points. i would like to point out that this work should not be underestimated. we austrians are always told that the balkans are close to us, and that is why i am also pleased that we have just been able to reach an agreement with the balkan states which regulates joint development in a specific area and also provides for a step-by-step approach which can best meet the different situations in these states. the situation in the balkan countries, which have been through very difficult times in recent history, with wars, conflicts and nationalist conflicts, is very different in terms of their fleets, their infrastructures, the means of control and their state structures. that's why you have to choose a different approach. this is a very good thing in this treaty! i would like to highlight a few points which will be very important in our joint work. we will be accompanying this process of rapprochement by providing assistance and assistance in the implementation of safety and security - i use the english words because they make a distinction here. it is, of course, a question of daily use, of the details of the practical work of the day. we must also be clear that the conditions must be met, that it is not a matter of being blind in one eye or the other, but that we can work together over the next few years on common safety rules in european aviation and in return market access mechanisms will be created. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. the journey of a wheelchair user must not be hindered by the lack of infrastructure and staff in the balkan countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, environmental protection also plays a major role. there has been a lot of talk in this agreement that there will be a great growth in traffic between the european union and the balkan countries. this must be accompanied by an environmental initiative to reduce emissions and noise pollution, so that this growth in air traffic is not accompanied by an extreme increase in emissions. a final important point concerns the functional airspace blocks. it will be difficult here, but i am an old optimist and i hope that we can achieve a good result here too, to create a common bloc or to pursue common policies. we can see that this is not always going smoothly in the union either. but we can create the conditions for a common air traffic management system which will reduce emissions and make life easier for passengers and air traffic personnel. i hope that cooperation between the balkan states in the context of this convention may be another step towards mutual understanding between these countries in other areas as well.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all want the highest possible standards of safety. the question is who decides what guarantees the highest possible security. in a sense, we can all consider ourselves experts here, because we fly almost every day. we know that each of us can easily handle the new regulations on liquids at any inspection. what is being proposed here is an alibi operation to ensure that citizens feel safe, but which certainly does not bring any security gain. that's the real problem. we must face this and this is what the two amendments - by mr stockmann and myself - are for, which seek to ensure that we have a debate here on what actually brings a security gain and what constitutes an alibi measure. we can really feel ourselves to be experts on this point and we can say quite clearly that we do not need any special regulations six months after the introduction of this regulation, but we need to think more rationally on this subject than we have done so far. in fact, this is a kind of extraterritorial legislation of the americans who, together with the british, have decided: this is how we are going to do it. and then the european dog has to wag his british or american tail. it can't be! we therefore call for a review as soon as possible and if that review does not bring any real safety benefits, then the measures must be abandoned. we are all forced to think again seriously about what can really help us in this problem.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i should like to take this opportunity to thank my friend jacques barrot for his constant efforts to solve the problems of trans-alpine freight transport and for his support of us on the long road to solving this problem. but today we are talking about the flood phenomenon and what can be done at european level. i should like to thank commissioner dimas and his staff, the shadow rapporteurs and the german presidency, who have all worked very constructively with me to bring about an agreement at second reading, which is very far-reaching and contains the main points. i would remind you that floods have become the most frequent natural disasters in europe. in 2002 and 2005, we had massive floods with devastating effects. there were casualties, and we had severe damage to homes and infrastructure. we were very much affected by it. it is considered scientifically established that the frequency and intensity of heavy rainfall is increasing and is directly related to human activity. firstly, the reason is the intensive urbanization, especially in risk areas: development of urban areas and roads, change of river courses, unconsidered construction of floodplains. secondly, deforestation, particularly the authorized clearing of valleys for the construction of holiday homes, for example, but also of industrial areas and commercial centres. thirdly, very intensive farming seals the topsoil and reduces the avenues and overflow areas. and then, fourthly, we have the phenomenon of soil erosion, which also contributes to this. following the devastating floods in 2002, the commission presented a flood response programme, which was intended to improve research and information, among other things. the commission has also presented a communication on flood management, which analyses the situation and proposes concerted action. one of these measures is the present proposal for a directive which is now being incorporated into the compromise package which we will be voting on tomorrow in order to reduce the risks to human health, the environment, infrastructure and the economy from flooding. in view of the increasing risk of flood damage, it is really essential to also create a european regulatory framework, as the vast majority of rivers are transboundary. 80% of europe's river basins are not only national, but cross-border. it is therefore clear that europe has had to respond. but this also means that the necessary degree of subsidiarity must be taken into account in this system. the conditions in a narrow alpine plain are not the same as those on a greek island or on the finnish plain. we must be careful not to adopt rules which are not differentiated and which cannot be followed in reality. the scheme is a clever three-step process: first, it assesses where there is a flood risk. it is not the case that something should be done without any real risk. secondly, flood maps should be drawn up and thirdly, flood risk management plans should be drawn up, but only where absolutely necessary. many countries have already made great strides in flood control, and we also had to make sure that there was no duplication of work. the rules on the conservation of stocks are therefore very comprehensive and the member states do not have to fear that there will be a duplication of measures, but the measures chosen can of course be fully implemented if they are in line with the intention of the directive. the council's common position contains a few points which we think should be improved. in particular, we couldn't understand why so little attention was paid to the phenomenon of climate change. we have succeeded in including the aspect of climate change in the negotiations with the council, which is now running like a red thread through all the points. this is also important and right, so that we can give the right answer to the citizens. in summary, we have made small changes to the timetables, we have increased floodplains and natural backing, we have promoted sustainable land use and we have helped to break the principle of solidarity in all corners. it means the overrunner should not take any action that would harm the underrunner. in the spirit of good european solidarity, this has actually been achieved. i can now present the report to my colleagues tomorrow with the best of my knowledge and conscience and recommend it for adoption!
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. true, we may experience fewer floods than in the past because of improved flood protection. the consequences are, however, disastrous. unfortunately, technological advances have made us careless, so more and more buildings are being built closer and closer to flood-prone areas. this, together with often unconscious interventions in river courses and the decline of natural retention areas such as the marshes, has created a homemade problem. the union's agricultural support over the last few decades has certainly contributed to this, and the interactions between agricultural use and land-structure change are another reason to rethink the cap towards greater support for natural plantation. the proposed joint flood management will of course also include measures such as river restoration, interconnection of the river banks and resettlement. so if we are to take seriously the goals of preserving natural habitats and taking climate change seriously, we will have to take new, innovative paths.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. floods will increase as a result of climate change, poor river management and construction in flood-prone areas. the increase in the number of inhabitants and the increase in the number of economic goods in these risk areas leads to a higher risk and higher damage. in addition to economic and social damage, flooding can have serious environmental effects, for example by flooding factories where large quantities of toxic chemicals are stored. the rapporteur has already explained all this in great detail. the compromise package negotiated by our rapporteur will help us to achieve the objectives of this directive. i would like to congratulate him from this place. the commission has already taken up important points in its report in the common position and this compromise package can give them even better expression. it is important for the european parliament that the impact of climate change is taken into account in the assessment of flood risk. it would have been difficult to disseminate the idea of excluding climate change from the assessment and evaluation of flood risk. a very important requirement is that the three stages of this directive - namely flood risk assessment, mapping and management plans - use best practices and best available technologies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. partnership is based on mutual respect, and that begins with mutual respect for law and common values. the fact that we are now discussing the question of transatlantic harmony is something which would probably cause great astonishment and dismay in austria. two events in austria are of concern to the public: a large bank bought by an american fund is forced overnight to terminate its customers, if they are of cuban origin, without notice and without any reason other than their nationality - against international law, against european law, against austrian criminal law. a major oil company is to be forced to stop its iran business - against austrian law, against european law, against international law. i am very surprised that this crucial question is not being raised in this debate. if our partners accept our legal system and our values, then we are partners. otherwise, it's a master and slave relationship. the commission's response to these two events in austria, which are causing great alarm and great concern, is not suited to building public confidence in its ability and willingness to protect and enforce european law. but that's the basis of partnership. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the run-up to the invasion of iraq, the european union has given itself the opportunity to say goodbye to the precarious position of the united states and to assume an independent mediating role, supported by reason. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the planned tightening of sanctions against iran would mean that washington would be blindly followed once again. in the perception of the islamic world, we could only become more of an enemy. the recent terrorist attacks and the recent threats against germany and austria are a clear example of this. the hard-won position of the mediator is probably thrown overboard in order to vote in favour of the us-eu summit. so much for our independent and self-confident foreign policy. the us has repeatedly shown that it does not care much about a partner eu, but rather wants to weaken the european union by overstretching it through internal problems and crisis centres at the borders, such as those that would arise from an accession of turkey. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. the missile defense systems we are planning to develop are a perfect fit. political powers have no friends, only interests. the united states is trying to impose its interests, even at the expense of europe's supposedly friendly neighbours.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i remember very well one of the first speeches by president barroso, in which he said that we should be on an equal footing with the united states of america. i think that's absolutely right! we need an economic partnership. i am in favour of establishing a common market which also recognizes the general international rules, such as those of the wto. but what is not acceptable - and this has already been pointed out - is that america - at least the bush administration - has occasionally, and more recently, tried to put pressure on european companies, beyond the un resolutions and other rules, and to tell them how to behave. there is a specific case in austria which has also been mentioned. the new owners of a large austrian bank, bawag, are forced to cut off all business relations with cubans. this is a scandal! the american government does not have to decide how european banks should act, any more than we have to decide how american banks should act. i expect a clear statement from the commission or the council on this! in another matter, i received a very clear answer from the commission in this connection. the answer from the council secretariat was somewhat vague. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. i think mr wolfowitz should resign. someone who fights corruption must have a clean slate! this too should be regulated jointly by america and the european union. (applause from the left)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues, particularly those of the committee on foreign affairs, for the very good and fruitful cooperation they have had. i would also like to thank all the croatian representatives who have done a great deal to prepare croatia's path to the european union, the ambassador to the european union, the chief negotiator, the foreign minister, and above all prime minister sanader, who has done a great deal in the last years of his government to advance the preparations. but my thanks also go to former prime minister račan a personal friend who is unfortunately very seriously ill: it has started to prepare croatia's path to the european union accordingly. all these people are not just croatian personalities, but european personalities, because they are paving the way for the whole region of south-eastern europe to join the european union if the relevant criteria are met. some people have asked me if i am not being too friendly towards croatia. yes, i am very emotionally attached to this country, but i also see the critical elements -- the things that still need to be done. i am therefore against the fact that we simply remove some critical elements from the report as it stands. we should be honest with croatia. we are not helping croatia by covering things up, but by drawing attention to the issues that are still open. much has been done, but some reforms are still pending, particularly in the administration of justice, but also in economic reforms. i hope that despite the elections this year, these reforms will move forward. i am pleased to see that cooperation has been established with the international criminal court in the hague. this was a major step that croatia has taken here, and i would like neighbouring serbia to take this step too. nevertheless, this work must continue in the near future. the return of refugees is not yet complete either. when you know that some villages have no water or electricity, you also understand that returning is not necessarily attractive for refugees. there's still a lot to do. there are also border problems. it is no wonder that after the break-up of yugoslavia the borders are not 100% fixed from the outset. the best thing is that there are bilateral solutions, that is, that croatia and its neighbours can find a solution together. but if such a solution is not possible with one or another country, then third parties who can mediate, who can also arbitrate, should be involved in order to solve the problems in a european way: not as a dispute of principle, but as a concrete question of economic and state policy. i have made it quite clear in my report that croatia should do everything in its power to conclude the negotiations by 2008, so that this parliament can give its consent in principle before the european parliament elections in june 2009. whether it will be possible for us to really agree on the basis of conviction is certainly a question that croatia must first of all solve. the croatian politicians, both in government and in opposition, know that it is becoming increasingly difficult to get approval for enlargement, for new membership, because of course there has been a certain fatigue with enlargement issues. we have said clearly and unambiguously in the thessaloniki process that if the copenhagen criteria are met and if there is cooperation with the international criminal court, then these countries will also have a right to membership. croatia's membership could be a good signal to the other countries. not that they can automatically or easily become members. but they can see that if a country does its homework, it is possible to become a member of the european union. none of us can have an interest in creating a black hole in this region. we are clearly committed to the fact that the european union must also do its homework and complete the constitutional process by means of an appropriate institutional reform. i can only repeat what martin schulz said in his last speech to mrs merkel in brussels: the council and the commission must do everything possible to ensure that this process is completed at the same time and in parallel with the negotiations with croatia, so that croatia is enabled to become a member of the european union and not prevented from doing so. we must not do without deepening and institutional reform of the european union. the two should go hand in hand so that we can really welcome croatia as a new member of the union as a strengthened european union. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, we agreed with the shadow rapporteurs that instead of the government and local authorities we would simply write the croatian authorities.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not again, in agreement with the shadow rapporteurs, i would like to clarify that this rule applies to all frontier problems. i therefore ask that the words 'with neighbouring countries' be inserted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not crossed. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a favor to ask. we always have relatively few votes on tuesdays and very many on wednesdays. why do we have solemn meetings on wednesdays? can we move this to tuesday? it would be just as good, and we could organize our schedule much better.
in writing. i am voting for the regulation on civil aviation safety. i am also in favour of detailed measures such as the ban on the taking of liquids and drinks on board being lifted after six months. the current state of affairs, with the different and unprofessional application of this regulation by airports, and therefore many travellers not knowing exactly what items they are allowed to take with them and which rules actually exist, is not sustainable and is causing understandable public discontent. it is essential to provide travellers with accurate information on the rights and obligations of airport security staff in order to ensure a peaceful and efficient functioning of airports. if a member state chooses not to do so, a thorough reassessment of the safety risks and a thorough review of the costs and impact on operations associated with these measures must be carried out beforehand.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the zingaretti report, although the protection of intellectual property is of course important and an essential factor in the success of companies. but if the european union is to take seriously the protection of intellectual property enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, it must do more to combat infringements of this right - for example in china. instead of tackling this problem on a large scale, it seems that the aim is to block new inventions and to criminalize personal injury without any profit motive. that is precisely what the directive in its present form would do. the current vague wording could, in my view, harm competition, hinder economic growth and pave the way for something like censorship.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me make a few brief comments on the progress report on croatia. by opening the real estate market to slovenia, croatia has fulfilled its obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement, which would have settled this point of dispute. there has also been some movement in the area of the investigation of war crimes. finally, even the committee of the regions, in its report adopted yesterday, has stated that croatia's accession would have only a small financial impact. i therefore think it is a shame that croatia, which clearly belongs to the european family of nations and meets all the criteria for membership, has been held up for so long. instead of wasting time with turkey, which is neither able nor willing to meet the eu's requirements, and yet with such impudence demands a date for accession, i think all energies should be focused on a speedy conclusion of the negotiations with croatia.
the commission has already done so. the rapporteur's report is not only an excellent and critical analysis, but it also puts forward conclusions and calls for consequences. i'll take that as a positive. in this context, let me turn to the chapter on armed conflicts and european security and defence policy. why would you do that? it is clear that wherever armed conflict occurs, human rights are violated, as is the case in many african countries today. the consequences are felt in europe. many people are fleeing in search of a better life. they are very often caught by traffickers and stranded illegally on the coasts of spain - last year alone, 31,000 people. the first months of this year have already seen a similar dramatic situation. in his report, mr coveney praises the austrian presidency for adopting implementation strategies under the austrian presidency to include human rights issues in the planning of european security and defence policy operations. the point now is that we actually demand the implementation of the implementation. i would urge the council to consider the possibility of reinforcing the military and police presence in hinkunft - as in kinshasa - and in other countries. we are also concerned about the situation in the middle east, and we are concerned about the situation in the middle east. the first is the creation of democratic structures, the second is the effective respect for human rights and the third is the creation of the conditions for the establishment of basic economic structures. all this has a positive impact on the countries concerned, on the people there and on us, because it reduces illegal migration to europe. if we can also include the commission's external aid programmes, i hope that human rights will be respected in these countries much more than they are now.
minister! is there any way of persuading the public media in the european member states, at least once, to largely abandon violence on television and radio in the context of this directive?
minister! if macedonia does indeed join the eu at some point, it could cause something like babylonian confusion of languages, as this state alone has six official languages. the council is aware of the problem of the threat of a language explosion?
the commission has already done so. illegal immigration has reached dramatic proportions. serious estimates put the number of illegal immigrants in europe at some 15 million. if you compare the figures from 2005 and 2006 alone, you can see that there has been a sixfold increase. trafficking has become a huge business and is part of organized crime. some member states are simply overwhelmed by this situation. they cannot be left alone and need help. this is where the european union's action comes in. i welcome the fact that frontex has been set up, and i welcome even more the fact that a functioning instrument is now being set up, namely the rapid reaction teams, so that assistance is provided at the request of the member states, in a limited time and in a limited place, but that it is also made clear that, as mr díaz de garcía mera consuegra has said, the responsibility for border security remains in the hands of the member states. the rabits are providing short-term relief. we must be clear about that. in the medium and long term, we need additional measures. i hope that a cooperation agreement will be concluded between frontex and europol to combat smuggling more effectively, that there will also be consequences for illegality - here we must also think of return aid - and that there will be no more mass legalisation, because the result is always a drag and a shift of the problems to other countries. but we also need prevention-oriented education campaigns so that potential migrants know how legal immigration works, what the consequences of illegal immigration are and what the risks are. we must also strengthen stabilisation and assistance programmes in the countries of origin of migration. with these rabits, we are at least showing that as the european union we are on the way to a security union, but at the same time we are thinking about how to solve the problems of migration, and in particular illegal migration, in the medium and long term. i thank the rapporteur for his excellent coordination.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report and the debate clearly show that the stability and growth pact is a success. it is a success because without the stability and growth pact, public debate on public finances would not take place in this form either in the member states or at european level. it is a success because it creates clarity and security and defines the same objectives for all. it is a success because it establishes a regulatory framework for national budgetary policies. the stability and growth pact is the european political complement to the single currency, and the single currency is our most important and successful response to globalisation. the success of the stability and growth pact is also shown by the reduction in the percentage of total debt and annual new debt. but we are far from there, and we have a chance to speed up the process. the economic situation gives us the impetus to overcome structural weaknesses, to step up liberalization and to face the challenges of demographic change with courage. debt for debt's sake, not debt for future investment's sake, is making the young people a burden to the nation. debt for the sake of debt means selling out the future. the annual surplus is needed to reduce the government deficit in all member states and to increase our scope for the future. the report should give us further impetus to do so.
the commission has already done so. the recent cases in the european union have shown that the information and consultation process within the european works council is very inadequate. we are now at the point where workers' representation in different countries is being played out against each other - france, germany, etc. this is not a national game! consultation and information within the framework of the european works council body is simply more. that is why we need to change this. i recall that the first revision should have been carried out as early as 1999. in 2004, the subject was taken up again, and now we are at the point where we recognise the need for revision. i am very glad that mrs stauner of the ppe has drawn up this subject for us, because the first midwife to introduce the european works council directive was the german prime minister kohl! but we had a very different industrial situation back then. a lot has changed. the structures of the enterprises have become smaller, the communication mechanisms have changed. a lot of things in this sector need to be changed. i can only urge that the opportunity to make the review be seized in good time. let us reform the european works council! let us amend the regulations and adapt them to the realities! it is of tremendous importance for democracy that this works in the workplace, because if it does not, we have a huge potential for conflict that must be prevented. i can only ask you, commissioner, to put this into motion quickly and to give the council the necessary impetus.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank mrs figueiredo for her work. it worked closely with the shadow rapporteurs and produced a good draft report for the committee on employment and social affairs. the commission proposal aims at systematising, at establishing a uniform scheme for the directives on the protection of workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this project will certainly give national authorities a better overview - that is the main point. comprehensive and effective protection of workers is a basic prerequisite for safeguarding and preserving the health of workers. every year, 4 500 workers in the eu die as a result of accidents at work and over 4 million people are affected by accidents at work. such an overall report can provide us with important information on the prevention measures we should take and contribute to improving the quality of occupational safety and health in the eu.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not the modern world of work has also brought new phenomena. these range from the rise of mental health problems to the spread of disease, increasing burnout to new forms of aggression like bullying. it seems almost part of the good tone of the working world to put employees under constant time pressure and to burden them with unplanned additional work and restrictive time limits. if you are suffering from a chronic health problem, you have to justify it in your absence. illness as a result of personal misconduct. older workers are generously pushed into early retirement, younger ones are branded as unfit. initiatives such as move europe on occupational health management are of course welcome. unfortunately, it's often companies with health promotion programs that are organized in such a way that disease simply cannot be. the internal pressure, combined with the fear of job loss, causes employees to drag themselves to work against medical advice. temporary work and parttime work also lead to a constant fear of job loss and financial worries, which then lead to psychological problems. however, absenteeism and disability not only cause high costs for businesses, but also burden health insurance. in this context, we need not be surprised by the increase in eating disorders, obesity, and mental illness, or the decline in the number of children. as long as work is a constant source of stress and children are a poverty trap, the demographic change that is childlessness and aging will continue. in this sense, we must ensure that there is more security in the workplace, that it is possible for a single earner to feed a family, and that it is possible for a woman to choose to have children without having to eat the bread. if you're sick, you have to be cured. if we can do that, we will certainly be a big step closer to achieving the lisbon objectives.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. when the swiss voters, the sworn citizens, rejected accession to the european economic area in 1992, no one could have imagined the developments that are now emerging. on the one hand, both the eu and switzerland benefit from cooperation and bilateral agreements, such as on security and asylum, on the other hand, there is relentless action, demands and even blackmail, for example in connection with the extended free movement of persons and interest taxation or, more recently, in connection with corporate taxation, where the rail transit exemptions, so important for switzerland, are being used as a means of pressure. when switzerland tightened its asylum law year after year, the european union was not spared criticism. the aim was to put a stop to the 75% of asylum applications that were abused each year, and that is what has happened. the turn of this traditionally welcoming country should give our multicultural dreamers something to think about, and the union should actually take a cue from this swiss asylum law. it is now time to look together for solutions to common problems in the area of taxation, but also in migration and integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. because only if the people of the eu feel that their will is being taken seriously, that they can have a say, can we get out of the current crisis in the eu. the debate on the eu constitution and further eu enlargements provide ample opportunity to take switzerland as an example.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the growing fear of job loss, which not only causes an increase in various diseases and consequently high costs for businesses and health insurance, combined with the associated risk of poverty, also reduces the ability and desire of european women to have children. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if we also promote full-time employment and job security, we will not only reduce sickness absence but perhaps increase our birth rate again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also voted in favour of the deprez report because i think it is certainly sensible at this stage to use the task force planned to reinforce the southern borders in order to cope with the threat of refugee flows. but we must not forget the other main routes, especially our external borders in eastern europe. in this sense, i think that the budget for frontex should be massively increased and strengthened. at the same time, we must show the realities in europe in the countries of origin of illegal migrants, so that the dream of the 'scrape-a-land' no longer inspires such acts of desperation, and we must ensure that cooperation on return with these countries, which are largely supported financially by us, works better.
in writing. i am in favour of the creation of rapid border intervention teams, as long as they are used only in exceptional and emergency situations. i call such a situation the situation where a member state faces a massive illegal inflow of third country nationals. in this context, it is important to emphasise that the human dignity of migrants must always be respected and that persons must not be discriminated against on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. the rights of persons seeking protection must also not be adversely affected by the regulation.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. today's resolution expresses our deep concern at the increasing number of political murders that have been committed in the philippines in recent years. the human rights organisation karapatan has registered 839 cases of extrajudicial executions since 2001. the victims were all people who stood up for the cause of their people: peasant leaders who fought for land, workers and union leaders who fought for fair wages and better working conditions, and dedicated church members. arbitrary executions, pervasive political repression, growing militarization, impunity and protection of perpetrators from paramilitary and military units have unfortunately become the hallmarks of the government. for a long time, the foreigners looked the other way. the court of justice in the hague held that ignorance and misunderstanding of the situation were as much responsible for the long-term disregard of the outside world as the us agreement on which the government in manila could and can rely. we condemn the gross and systematic violations of civil rights, the kidnappings, the disappearances and the political murders. we urge the philippine authorities to carry out the necessary investigations and bring those responsible to justice. we call on the authorities to ratify the united nations convention on forced disappearance and to adopt the implementing provisions. all these steps are necessary for the first step towards de-escalation, so that in a few weeks' time we can guarantee semi-democratic elections.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the spectre of depopulation is haunting europe. if we fail to secure sustainable jobs in rural areas, purchasing power will continue to decline. as a result, food service outlets, post offices, doctors' offices, schools and guard rooms will close, and the countryside will lose its last vestige of attractiveness. it is not only our agricultural policy that has contributed to this negative development. the number of farms and the number of agricultural workers is continuing to decline. other eu funding programmes have also proved to be a boomerang. they wanted to promote business to create jobs. as a result, some large companies have managed to undermine our once strong structure of small and mediumsized enterprises. and when enough damage has been done, you just move to a neighboring country and collect new subsidies. of course, it's hard to break this vicious cycle. the eu now wants to promote village development, revitalize town centres and strengthen rural areas. but if you want to use interact ii to create a programme for managing regional programmes and training centres for the eu bureaucracy, you shoot the bird. the commission is requested to recall the original objectives and problems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. affordable housing for all classes of society has always been a very important issue for me. the rapporteur stresses in his report the need for the right to housing benefit and calls for other social rights to be strengthened to ensure genuine mobility of workers. it also calls on national decision-makers to take measures to help young people to buy their first home. these are both causes which i fully support. i would like to take this opportunity to point out the danger of ghettoization which can result from a too narrow definition of the concept of social housing. i am referring to the award of grants solely on the basis of social need. i think it's very important that there is social mixing in projects. this helps to avoid the emergence of hotbeds of conflict which are inevitably created by the formation of ghettos. in austria there is concern that too broad a harmonisation in the housing sector could undermine the system which is currently working very well in our country. we have a very high standard in the area of rental law, which must be maintained at all costs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my very positive opinion on the european parliament's decision today, particularly since the democratic deficit in the euratom treaty, which has existed for fifty years, has been clearly confirmed by the european parliament and the european parliament, by a large majority, also calls for co-decision in the field of the euratom treaty. it is really time that safety issues are not just dealt with in the member states, but that safety and health protection is a european concern. the delegation has therefore decided to support these demands.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not our group has expressed a very clear position on the question of palestine, in particular on the recognition of the palestinian government. but i believe that in these difficult times we must first find common ground in this house. there hasn't been enough talk yet. in addition, events in palestine are moving too fast, so that an immature resolution, not really broad-based, would certainly not be useful in the present situation, especially when you are about to visit. i therefore propose that the resolution be withdrawn for these reasons, not because we have changed our minds but because we want to find enough time for discussions with the other groups.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already done so. a high-quality health service is of great importance to all european citizens. health is gaining additional importance in the context of an ageing population across europe. health services pursue similar objectives to other social services of general interest and are based on the principle of solidarity, fundamental values and equal access. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the committee on employment and social affairs reaffirmed that the exclusion of health services from the scope of the services directive was intended to highlight health services as a higher good of the european union. the correction of the vote in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection in plenary is necessary in order not to send the wrong signal for further processing. the services must be recognised by further legislation at european level and must not be subject to free competition. we need a legislative framework, a proposal, for example a sectoral directive on health services, in which the social partners and decision-makers are involved. in the event of damage to the patient, there must be clear rules on liability. the reimbursement of costs must be transparent and traceable. the establishment of service providers must respect the same social, labour and quality criteria. health services are not services of any kind. we have to be careful with it, and at the end of the day, it's your health.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i hope that all those who voted for paragraph 71 in the committee will at least now realise what a disservice they have done to the debate, because we are now discussing more the systemic question than the substantive question. we have deliberately excluded health and social services from the services directive. why would you do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have to define what health services are meant. what services fall under the subsidiarity principle? these services cannot, in fact, be regarded as ordinary market services because of their nature. it is also about protecting citizens. i am very sorry - and i say this very openly - that the vote in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the liberal motion has caused uncertainty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. it means a step back. we want to make an active contribution to the consultation process on the regulation launched by the services directive. let us not confuse patient mobility with the freedom to provide services. patient mobility is out of the question. the question of the regulation of the freedom to provide services for entrepreneurs requires a differentiated regulation and a sensitive approach. the member states must not be relieved of their responsibilities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is as high as possible.
i have to say, madam president, we are adopting tomorrow, at third and final reading, the regulation on the financial instrument for the environment (life+). i would like to congratulate mrs isler béguin on the overall result of the mediation in the legislative process and thank her for her commitment, which was more than necessary because of the very different points of view throughout the legislative process. the implementation, updating and further development of the community's environmental policy and legislation are the general objectives of life+. we need money to do this, and that was the crux of the matter, the subject of the most heated discussions: how much money we need and, above all, how to manage that money. we have not achieved everything we had in mind in the conciliation procedure, but we have succeeded in achieving an increase of 40 million euros. we have also insisted that a system of central administration be maintained. the member states wanted 80% of the funds to be managed by the member states themselves, and we have achieved that there will be a community policy on this matter in future. the life+ regulation only funds projects of good practice or demonstration projects related to the management of natura 2000 sites. it is therefore necessary to ensure adequate funding for the management of the natura 2000 networks. the commission and the member states must ensure that this funding is provided.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank mrs laperrouze for her excellent cooperation. it is a technical and difficult dossier. but it is a very important issue for the europe of 27 because the aim of harmonization is also to prevent distortions of competition in the european area. however, we have - and this is the case with these technical dossiers - also the authorization procedures and the administrative burden, which should be reviewed regularly in the spirit of the principle of better regulation. we are currently aiming to reduce administrative burdens in europe by 25%. i think that in the interests of better legislation it is necessary to set the priorities correctly. in particular for small and mediumsized enterprises, such technical regulations and checks are not always associated with costs but also with corresponding administrative burdens. i therefore ask the commission to keep checking the technical feasibility of these rules, to keep them up to date and, of course, to examine the proportionality of the costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am therefore referring to the absolute prohibition of deterioration, which in practice can cause a great many problems in industry and agriculture. we all know that in the water sector, floods can happen today and droughts tomorrow. if we were to introduce an absolute ban on deterioration, these regulations would lead to enormous problems in agriculture and industry within a short time.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, for her excellent report. it is extremely important that we present this directive, which complements the water framework directive, now in a timely manner. it is also essential, as the rapporteur has pointed out, to tackle pollution at its source and to address diffuse sources of pollution through common methods. the aim is to prevent distortions of competition and to ensure good water quality throughout the union. i would like to draw attention to a few amendments which i consider very important. the absolute prohibition of deterioration, to which mr rübig has already referred, in particular, raises a number of problems in practical implementation. we have to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to make it a statute here, since it makes it much more difficult to run an economy. we're shooting over the target here. the limitation of the applicability of transition zones to low-lying waters also represents an extreme difficulty for water management. we should also consider how the selection of priority substances and their classification can be carried out in a scientifically correct manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would particularly like to support amendment no 75 by mr sturdy, which points out that technical feasibility must be ensured and in particular that disproportionate costs must be avoided. mr olajos has referred to a bilateral problem between austria and hungary. i know that a committee has already been set up for this purpose. we are naturally particularly interested in seeing this problem resolved together.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. i would like to clarify the question of financing which is frequently raised. we are now 27 countries and have a two-year extension. so the 50% increase, that's not quite right, because we want to achieve a much greater efficiency. nevertheless, we are pleased that the programme can now start, albeit with some delay. i think that it is thanks to the persistence of our rapporteur that we have been able to put forward and implement some very important demands, namely the removal of bureaucratic obstacles, increased transparency and the establishment of the help desk. as regards the joint declaration of support for the year against violence, this is a demand we have also been making for a very, very long time. i would urge that we do so in order to put all the areas of violence at the centre of political debate for a year and hopefully to achieve better solutions, especially in relation to trafficking in women, children and human beings.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for his reference to the great need for action by the european union in the negotiation of economic partnership agreements. first of all, we should bear in mind that in order to effectively integrate the acp states into world trade, we must work towards a level playing field in all regional groups. this may include trade facilitation and technical assistance to producers to compensate for their losses in customs revenue. but that alone does not satisfy these countries. they also need expert guidance to be able to take advantage of the easier access to the market. i also think it would be essential to simplify the underlying administrative procedure in order to make more efficient use of the funds available. i think that we as members of the european parliament should be aware of the fact that trade with these countries is also in the european interest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the amendment is to adopt an amendment tabled by the associated committee without a vote. it is generally understood that the amendment proposed by an associated committee can be adopted automatically only if it falls within the exclusive competence of that committee. the word 'exclusively' is missing. i have agreed with the rapporteur to add the term 'exclusive competence' in this sentence to clarify this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the daphne iii programme has given us another useful tool against trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. the fact is that over 100 000 women in the european union are victims of trafficking and violence. it is therefore necessary to design such a programme accordingly. i very much welcome the fact that the budget has been increased from 50 million to over 114 million euros, enabling us to carry out information campaigns in the countries of origin, recruiting women and children who then become victims of sexual violence in the european union. with these information campaigns we have preventive ways of educating women and offering protection against exploitation. if this is combined with the provision of employment programmes for women affected, daphne iii is a decisive step forward in the fight against violence, trafficking and sexual exploitation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the gröner report because there is no doubt that progress has been made in the fight against violence against women, and the daphne programme has certainly played a part in this. however, violence against women is more common in cultures where patriarchal power is still strongly entrenched and there is little awareness of the problem. the waves of immigration in recent years have also brought human rights violations against women, such as female genital mutilation, but also forced marriages. i believe that the point here is not just to raise awareness of the problem or to criminalize forced marriage in the eu. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive. if domestic offenders or those from the western cultural circle are punished, the same right must also apply to immigrants from the muslim world. justitia can't be blind or deaf here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also voted for the laperrouze report because, of course, it is better to take precautions than to take costly remedial measures. as an austrian and a citizen of a country with very large water resources, i believe that we should no longer finance intensive agriculture, which brings with it problems such as over-fertilization, for a sustainable and environmentally conscious water policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but also, with forestry, we can control which pollutants, how many pollutants, how quickly they get into groundwater, and also help to prevent flooding.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. despite the efforts of the rapporteur, marie-hélène aubert, to produce a good report, the epp delegation here in the european parliament voted against this report today because we still find in this report many things that give us great problems. we still believe that in organic farming the limit for gmos must be 0.0%, and we also believe that imports from third countries have to meet the same criteria as products from eu countries and therefore have to be controlled. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. where is romano prodi? how many times have i asked myself that question in the last few months? where are the governments that defend the constitution? mr. prime minister, i found you again today! i found romano prodi again on the barricades. late, but still. you have summoned the consensus, you have stepped out of the clutches of governments that trade the historic responsibility for europe every day for a pittance. mr president, you said we must respect the arguments of others. i'm gonna ask you, who are the others? if it is the citizens of europe, including those who said no, then i am not afraid. we know what they want: more democracy, more transparency, more social responsibility, a better europe, a more convincing constitution. or are the others governments which are exploiting the crisis of the ratification process to treat us with their old greed, their old claims to power, with all that we have taken away from them in the convention, which are intentionally directing the discontent of citizens towards europe in order to maintain their power over a europe without european democracy, without a social dimension and without a common role in the world which is concerned with the old power struggles of a fronde: the europe of the state chancelleries against the europe of the citizens. you talked about the need for compromise. that is another very pressing question. the compromise which emerges from the 12 questions is the compromise as a historical lie about europe. because it is also important, mr prime minister - and i thank you in particular for making this clear - to preserve not only the content but also the spirit of the constitution. if we say that laws are no longer laws but regulations, we deprive people of their right to democratic legitimacy, because they remain laws, in a material sense. if we deny the primacy of european law, we are wrong, because it will remain in the underground and the foreign minister will remain what we wanted. no, the compromise cannot be a bluff and a lie. we have to fight for the spirit of the constitution too! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr prodi, it is very good to have you here in this house as a person who has done a great deal for europe, especially but also as prime minister. romano prodi has spoken about foreign policy. i'm very grateful to him for that. there are many in this house right now who say we need a common stance on russia. on the other hand, there are many who say we can't let america dominate. we need a strong europe. together we say, india, china and brazil are getting stronger, can we still assert our interests? we have the middle east problem, which we'll discuss shortly. the commissioner is already here. how can we make a european contribution to all this if we do not have a common foreign and security policy? how can we have a common foreign and security policy if we do not have a clear personality in the future who can represent all these interests to the outside world and who is also the point of contact for them? mr president, i would like to ask you to be firm on this point. i agree with you that not every contract is a good contract. we need a treaty that goes beyond a minimum threshold and really moves europe forward. good day, mr prime minister!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union must not allow the existence of israel to be called into question. i am coming back from my trip to palestine with more horror and more sadness. i mean, i wanted to visit palestine, but i couldn't find it. what i found was military back country. fragmented, fragmented, separated are families from other family members, from jobs, cities from water, settlements from fertile land. i can only say that no one, mr president of the council, madam commissioner, can live in these circumstances. the israeli government's occupation regime does not serve the security of the country, it puts the country in danger. it is turning palestine into a breeding ground of despair, hatred and violence. the situation has worsened, commissioner, and it will worsen still further, and this should not surprise anyone. it's always difficult for politicians to analyze military action. but i want to say one thing to you here, as a basic conviction after this trip: this occupation regime also serves other purposes! it is obvious and undeniable that its main purpose is to protect illegal settlements and their interconnections. it's for the occupation of the water resources of this country. it is also a system of land acquisition and the extension of israel's borders. this cannot lead to peace! i said no one can question israel's right to exist. we have to do this in the light of the criticisms and the demands we have to make for the peace of israel. that is why i want to say today what is required: to abandon this occupation regime and to contribute to a viable palestinian state.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to apologize first for leaving immediately after my speech because i have to chair a meeting. i know it's rude, but i'm sorry. the right of israel to defend itself against the kassam missiles is, of course, beyond question. these rocket attacks on civilian objects and persons are a crime. they are provoking israel, but they are also provoking the government which is currently in power in palestine. that's almost the whole point. and what is the european union doing? i am sorry, mr gloser, but the answer you have given, of course on behalf of the council presidency, is completely unsatisfactory. it is as unsatisfactory as the last debate. we are doing nothing to strengthen the forces that have the only chance of taking action against these terrorists. we will not change anything with our statements. the military counter-strikes by israel will not change anything either, even if they may be justified in individual cases, if the european union does not give this government a chance. i am talking about the government, because it is cynical to decide at the level of individual ministers which of them to meet and which not to meet. i have already mentioned last time that the president of the council is meeting the israeli foreign minister, but then she says to the palestinian foreign minister that she is not meeting the foreign minister. that's not a very productive attitude. i do not want to embarrass the commissioner for external relations, but she did speak of supporting the government, not individual ministers. and if both say we must support abbas, they will not do so unless they support his government and give it the opportunity to act against terrorism and against the terrorists. that's the problem. if europe does not commit itself to this, all these talks will be of no use, because peace can only be created from within. there will be peace only if there are strong forces in palestine who can prevail because they receive the political, moral or financial support of the european union against the terrorists. that helps palestine and that helps israel. if you want to help israel - again, i say this - then you have to give this government a chance. everything else is a farce.
the commission has rightly pointed out that it makes perfect sense to ensure that in europe, on wastelands, plants are now grown from which fuels can be extracted. a current problem arises in the production of malting barley, because the promotion of biofuel production makes it more attractive for the farmer to grow other products here. we have therefore had problems in our own country, in our own economy, in producing the raw materials for a not unimportant sector of the economy - the production of beer.
i'm not going to tell you. i would like to know how financial support is to be secured in the field of transeuropean networks (tens). is there a timetable for when these tens - such as nabucco or bluestream - will actually be funded and can you see the timetable for the 2008 review being prepared accordingly?
the commissioner, another aspect of this issue which i do not think should be neglected is the large number of anti-western propaganda and hate sites on the internet run by fundamentalist muslims, calling for a fight against the western world and its ideals. is the commission aware of these activities and are there any measures to counteract them?
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have a question which relates to the internet and indirectly to terrorism. the directive on data retention was adopted as a counter-terrorism measure. is it true that credit card cell phones, webmail operators like hotmail, or even private servers can't be tapped? this describes a relatively large circle that terrorist networks could also use to circumvent this detection. what is the added value of this directive on data retention?
i'm not going to tell you. i think this is an excellent initiative, but how do we make the victims understand that they can use this number? has the commission planned the resources necessary for the dissemination of this information? how do you make sure that it actually works in practice? the victims, for example young women from russia, are mostly people who do not speak an eu language. how do you ensure that these hotlines work in practice? there is usually a very long delay, and you are not put on a waiting list and you do not get an appropriate reply for perhaps half an hour.
commissioner, you have rightly pointed out that a great deal of eu funding is spent on the protection of minorities and the special interests of the union. would it not also be possible or necessary to ensure that political pressure is put on serbia to prevent certain shortcomings in its policy from arising in the first place or to change its policy so that we do not have to repair it later with eu money?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very warmly on behalf of our socialist group for the way in which he has guided us through this not entirely unproblematic area. the council, as the rapporteur has said, is not prepared to accept the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'cross-border' in the title of the directive. i agree with my predecessor that we must give the ball to the union ministers and the heads of government. you know that we were faced with the challenge of a budget of almost one third, which, as the commissioner rightly said, was only possible because this house fought in the financial perspective to do something somewhat meaningful with this one third budget. we have decided to concentrate and introduce criteria, and it is very important that the commission should have a little more backbone in monitoring them than in the financial perspective, where the commission has unfortunately taken a very weak position. we know that the commission is not always ready to act, and we have also set up a reserve of 100% for 2007 to ensure that the promises made to us today are also implemented.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today we can be proud that the european parliament and the council have taken seriously the commission's call to deliver the roaming regulation before the summer, or in the summer. at the beginning of the discussions we all assumed that there would be the normal procedure of second and third readings, because this is an extremely contentious subject and the conflicts of interest on the european market were very different. after we had developed good competition in the national markets, there was not really competition between the different member states. now, millions of consumers are waiting, looking at their mobile device -- their phone, as we say -- waiting for the first offer to come along. the offer is subject to the publication of this regulation in the official journal of the european union. so hopefully, when we're on vacation, or when we're on a business trip, we can make phone calls accordingly and also be sure that at the end of the month there's no bill that's more than the room rate or the flight, but that it's being channeled in a reasonable, orderly way. it's like going to a restaurant and getting a menu with prices on it, so it must be the same when you're in roaming mode. in future, when you travel to a european country, you will see a message at the border, showing the personalised tariff on your mobile device, where you will get a free mobile number to your home operator, where you can call and ask how much an sms, an mms or a data transfer costs. this transparency alone will do a lot, and i am proud that this transparency is possible in all services, not just voice telephony, but all other services. we also talked about the flat rate, of course, an all-inclusive flat rate that can be offered within a certain period of time, where you know exactly what you're going to pay at the end of the month. that's the challenge, compared to the landline customers, compared to broadband or voice over ip and many other new technologies. with this regulation we are also opening up a great opportunity for umts and gsm in the future markets. i therefore had the pleasure of discussing these matters of customer-friendly roaming with mr paasilinna in depth. i remember very well when we had our first conversation with mr muscat and we said that there would be an opt-in or an opt-out solution. we actually agreed that there had to be a solution. that was the key thing that we saw, there's actually a need for action here, it has to be fast, it has to be efficient, and we're getting it across the stage accordingly. with mr mavrommatis we have been very active in the areas of extreme peripheral regions. i come from the alpine country of austria, where the cost of transmission equipment is different from that in the federal republic. the commission will be examining in detail in the coming months what possibilities there are in this area in the future. it is also an interesting regulation for regulators, because it also gives regulators in the member states completely new opportunities to be active in roaming and to get the best out of consumers. the approach of better regulation is also new. we have finally succeeded in automatically suspending a regulation after three years, and we ask the commission to ensure that competition actually comes into force after those three years. i would also ask the council and the council representatives to urge that publication in the official journal of the european union be made as soon as possible, because millions of consumers in europe are waiting to finally get a regulation here that also benefits them. i would like to thank parliament in particular. our services have worked excellently. four days after the agreement with coreper, we had all the translations. excellent work in the house, and i'm proud of our staff, who have made it possible for us to work so efficiently! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for her initiative and my colleague mr rübig and the other rapporteurs for their excellent work. yes, there is a market failure that sometimes happens - many deny this - but in this case it was absolutely essential that we intervene by capping prices. the consumer is the focus of our thinking. not that we want to hurt the industry! on the contrary! we call on industry and businesses to do all they can to attract new consumers and to compensate for the losses that may be incurred now and then by offering new, good and advantageous packages. it is very important that this regulation, with a short delay, really benefits consumers and that no excise duty is paid by those who are not so well informed. i would ask you, commissioner, to do everything possible to make this regulation known to our consumers and to show what the commission and parliament are doing for europeans. this can do more than any abstract discussion of the european constitution to convince europeans of the need for the eu.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i thank the house for its agreement and in particular the council for its commitment to the date of entry into force of the regulation being 27 june at the latest. and to those who abstained, i say: we are reducing the cost to the taxpayer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i support the report by mr mauro. what i miss from the commission document and the report is that community subsidies are tied to measures to protect against railway and road noise. in all the necessary extension measures, consideration must also be given to the other residents concerned, for reasons of health and acceptance. i therefore call for the regulations on noise pollution from railway vehicles to be changed as soon as possible to lower maximum values and for noise-reduction measures to be promoted, as well as the development of transeuropean networks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the mauro report because the volume of traffic in europe is growing at an enormous rate and congested roads and constant congestion are harbingers of a threatened collapse of transport. although we have defined projects for the transeuropean transport networks many years ago, we are lagging far behind in their implementation. the main road to europe, for example, is still a patchwork. we must therefore ensure that rail transport becomes more attractive, and i believe that this applies not only in a transnational context but also more strongly to local transport.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the lulling report, as the rapporteur herself wanted, because it calls for another tax increase. this time the old argument is being heated up that otherwise there would be distortions of competition. it is now clear that the minimum rates introduced in 1992 - as experts had predicted - have only widened the gap between the rates in the member states. some have raised the rates again and again and now want the others to be forced to follow suit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have agreed to this report because the steps it proposes must be taken to make our european union a political union that speaks with one voice to the outside world and can thus become a global player, otherwise it will remain a lame duck. in particular, the european union needs to develop the european security and defence policy with joint research, joint procurement, joint defence forces capable of acting autonomously and joint operations financed from the eu budget. but this requires that we get a new set of rules, a new contract. i hope that with the presidency of mrs merkel and the pragmatism of mr sarkozy, a decisive step in the right direction will be taken here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i support the demands made in this report, in particular the introduction of a minimum wage in all member states. this is a safety net and, in particular, a measure to protect against exploitation and poverty despite work. it is also a measure that safeguards competitiveness and prevents job losses in countries with higher social standards, such as austria. i also support the introduction of a quality label for products from third countries which are produced under humane conditions and without the use of child labour. consumers are invited to ensure that, by purchasing such products, humane and fair working conditions prevail in third countries and that domestic jobs are not destroyed by the importation of cheap products.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. a few days ago a young dutchman said on television, when asked about the european constitution: 'why do we need a constitution? this is a business district. i thought to myself: how is it possible that a young man in the netherlands today, in a country which was a founding state and which, 60 years ago, was one of the first countries to embrace the idea of creating a politically united europe, and which promised to overcome nationalism, does not know that this is a political union? you have given me the answer to that question today. a government that wants to remove a symbol, a flag, wants to remove an idea. she wants to make an idea invisible, make it disappear. if you take away the decorations and the courtesies from your speech today, it's a cold, nationalist, militant salute to the idea that this flag represents. let us consider the various points. the primacy of european law. i take note of your foreign minister's statement that the primacy of european law must no longer appear in the treaty. at the same time, your foreign minister stresses that the primacy of european law must not be undermined. that means deceiving and lying to your own people, not writing in the treaty what the reality of this union is. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you know that. you want regulations instead of laws! but, mr. prime minister, what does that name say? the law has nothing to do with the nation state. there have been laws in a republic too; since man has existed, there have been laws. the law grants the citizen democratic legitimacy through parliamentary legislation. mr president, after hearing your demands and understanding your logic, i was very grateful that you spoke to us and that you did not immediately demand the abolition of this house, this parliament, or even its renaming. the european parliament is the embodiment of a federal, political europe, of supranational democracy. the house, by its very existence, guarantees to the citizens that it is a political community and not an economic organization or a federation of states. a constitution has nothing to do with a nation state. it is the fundamental law of a political community. there are european citizens in the future treaty, there is european citizenship. this is the parliament of a supranational democracy and european citizenship. if you take the charter out of the treaty, but make it legally binding with reference, what do you do? the same deception again, you make it disappear for the citizen, but legally it is very well. that is to say, you accept european reality where you must, but you deny it. mr president, a lie will not win the 21st century or europe. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is astonishing, not only to me but to millions of people throughout europe, the creativity with which the eu constitution, which is believed to be dead and is also said to be dead, is being revived again and again. the european union, incapable of action and sinking into insignificance, is the specter painted on the wall to obtain a free hand for brussels to satisfy the apparently insatiable need for more powers. but i do not think that the purpose of the european union, and indeed of european integration, can be to undermine ever more the sovereign decision-making powers of the member states. cooperation at governmental level is certainly as indispensable as unanimity in the core areas of national sovereignty, especially in the fields of foreign, security and defence policy. our people do not need an eu constitution, negotiated in secret chambers with a revised cover and minor cosmetic corrections, and ratified by a reclusive eu elite as a new work to be sold. i think that the citizens of europe will not fall for such a fraud in the field of etiquette. we must move away from a new eu constitution towards a basic treaty for the equal cooperation of self-confident states and self-confident peoples. the principle in my view is that we should have the greatest possible strength from the outside and the greatest possible freedom from the inside. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. in all these areas, we will have to let people have their say. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. of course, in a country that is attempting a peaceful transfer of power for the first time since civil war and military dictatorships, not everything can be optimal and smooth. the elections that took place - we all agree - were a farce. what is democracy if one party is celebrating its victory before the votes are counted? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is the point of having voting materials arrive late or not at all, and how do you expect the nigerian people to feel taken seriously? the electoral process should have stabilized the region and shown the people a viable path to the future. but the hopes were not fulfilled. what remains is a disillusioned population that has seen the elections as a symbolic act at best. the threat of a contested election is also unlikely to be of much use to the opposition, as the winning party will hardly be involved in new elections. it is therefore up to us to consider to what extent the european union can and should exert pressure in this respect when power is handed over on 29 may. the european union is not always the best example. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament.
i have to say, madam president, the highly anticipated election marathon in nigeria is over. a new president, new state parliaments and a new federal parliament were elected. even before the election, it was clear how it would end. the ruling party was expected to win by a landslide, but none of the election observers anticipated the scale of electoral fraud, the rigging of the results, the logistical chaos and the widespread violence associated with this election. both the european union's electoral observation commission and - and this is news - the official west african economic union observation commission have been relentless in denouncing the serious flaws in this election. the list of documented electoral irregularities is long and has been discussed in this debate today. i would like to join my colleagues in calling on the nigerian authorities to investigate thoroughly and transparently the irregularities in the elections. i have one more question to put to the commission: what are the possibilities for us to take appropriate steps in the framework of the instrument for democracy and human rights, in our dialogue and in the framework of cooperation with nigeria? we know that it is not only chinese companies that ignore human rights and social inequalities; western companies have also ignored them when it comes to access to oil.
i have to say, madam president, i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the matter. i would like to come back to the ivory trade, as many of my colleagues have done. although the convention on the conservation of species has prohibited it since 1989, the convention has allowed the sale of individual stocks since 1997. it is understandable that the countries concerned should be interested in this. but the difficulty is that it is not yet possible to distinguish between legal and illegal ivory, and therefore there is a great risk that the legal trade will reignite poaching. the increased poaching is putting increasing pressure on wildlife conservationists and conservation authorities in elephant areas. the protection of the thick skins, which is important for tourism in many countries, requires increasing resources, and these are not usually available. only a total ban on the ivory trade can protect elephants in the long run. it is estimated that 20,000 elephants are killed for their tusks each year in africa. we therefore support in our resolution the proposal of kenya and mali. this proposal calls for a 20-year moratorium on all forms of ivory trade. we hope that the commission and the member states will join us in negotiating this demand.
mr president of the council! we have heard from you that a number of positions have been adopted by the council and the european union. the reality is that the list of non-compliance with these criteria by the candidate country cyprus is at least as long. keyword cyprus: is there no possibility of more active involvement by the european union or the council than you have announced? we're watching what's happening very closely.
the acp states that they support the separation of religion and state, which is a constitutional requirement in turkey, but they have nevertheless taken initiatives which cast doubt on the veracity of this statement. for example, she has campaigned for the abolition of the headscarf ban and an expansion of islamic education. to what extent does the council share the concern expressed by critics of the threat of a creeping islamization by this party and in what form is this threat being taken into account in the accession negotiations?
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. the commission has already done so. it is gratifying to read in the latest innovation scoreboard that europe is getting better and better in international comparisons. for the fourth year in a row, the innovation gap between the us and the european union has narrowed. however, in our age of constant change and rapid development, we are constantly challenged to tackle new innovations. in the long term, innovation is a necessary response to future global problems. innovative companies across the eu are much less likely to work with universities and other higher education institutions than with customers and suppliers. interactions between universities and educational institutions and enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are another prerequisite for economic innovation. i would like to mention the european institute of technology in this context and ask the council and the commission to provide a financial basis for this. but the money should not be taken out of the current programmes and then allocated to this institute - that would be counterproductive and would hamper the other projects. at local and regional level, the innovation potential of small and micro enterprises is particularly high. this innovative potential needs to be better recognised, promoted and developed through concrete policy measures across the eu, including improved access in the regions. in austria, for example, statistics from 2004 show that small enterprises have more often launched new or significantly improved products than medium-sized enterprises. i would also like to mention the cluster support and to conclude by saying that innovation policy also has to be linked to women and that women must be given a better opportunity of access.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr vils busk, for the really constructive, collegial and, in my view, very good work he has done in cooperation with the other members of the committee on agriculture. we have all been calling for simplification of the cap and of the market organizations for a long time. i am very pleased that the only truly community policy, namely agricultural policy, is now prepared to go down this road. i very much welcome the fact that these 21 regulations on sectoral market organisations are being combined into a single regulation, thus making the legal framework more rational. the rapporteur has already mentioned the advantages of this single common market organization. in my view, the cap should be governed by the four basic regulations. i fully agree with the rapporteur that these should be purely technical changes, regulated by the commission, and not changes to political decisions. we want and must insist, as representatives and members of the european parliament, on participating in the decision-making and the discussion of these issues. it is also important to me that the wine and fruit and vegetable sectors should be excluded, because the reform process is not yet complete. i am also in favour of the special management committees, because it is particularly in very specific matters that one cannot put everything on the same page. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again and to say on behalf of my group that this is a very successful report.
a writer. the commission is not amouna abdallah daldoum, 23, and sadia idries fadul, 22, were sentenced to death by stoning for adultery on 6 march and 13 february 2007 respectively. both women had been found guilty of adultery by a criminal court in managil province in gezirah state. the women were reportedly not given legal representation during the trial and were unable to defend themselves because they only spoke the language of their ethnic group. the trial was conducted in arabic, without providing interpreters for the women. the judgment was appealed. according to information from the sudanese embassy in brussels, the death sentence was overturned by the court. the reason given was the absence of legal representation. we welcome the abolition of the death penalty, if it is indeed confirmed by the court, and we call on the sudanese government to guarantee the physical and mental integrity of the two women. on may 3, two 16-year-olds were sentenced to death for murder and robbery. the imposition of the death penalty on juvenile offenders is prohibited under international law. sudan has ratified the un convention on the rights of the child and has committed to not execute anyone under the age of 18. the european union calls on the sudanese government to abolish the death penalty for the two minors and to guarantee their physical and mental integrity. we call on the commission, the european council and the member states to condemn the death penalty, flogging and other cruel and degrading punishments.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not paul wolfowitz will step down as president of the world bank at the end of june. his resignation was pushed by canada and europe, who rightly feared a loss of confidence in the world bank. the principles of democracy, transparency and accountability of public institutions, repeatedly called for by the outgoing president of the world bank, must also apply to the world bank's own business and decision-making processes. like many of my colleagues, i welcome the resignation of paul wolfowitz, a leading neocon and leading advocate of the iraq war. i am sorry, as are many others, that this decision has been taken rather late. of course, the debate and resolution today are not just about paul wolfowitz. the more important thing is to avoid such mistakes in the future and to find much better selection methods. we call on the german and portuguese presidencies to put forward, on behalf of the union, proposals for a more democratic, transparent and responsible selection of future leaders in the bretton woods institutions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my group wishes this report a large and convincing majority, and we hope it will get it. we thank the rapporteurs for this excellent proposal. this resolution can be of great importance if this house succeeds in conveying to the governments the message that it is really prepared to be the advocate of european democracy, that it is really prepared to defend the enshrinement of fundamental rights and that it is really prepared to push through the dissolution of the pillar structure and the preservation of the qualified majority in the constitutional treaty, even at the risk of having to say no. i have heard many ultimatums from this house over many years, and many great gestures and shouts on the barricades and promises to say no unless this or that is decided in the interests of the people. i have not once seen this house actually go to the barricades, say no or even meet an ultimatum. if we do not act on this ultimatum, this house will have to bear the historic responsibility. the record of governments' sins after two years of reflection - whoever thought about it here - is long. it is a question of the seven deadly sins of governments. the european parliament has been excluded from the constitutional process for a long time, including this house. the public is eliminated. the constitutional process is now taking place behind closed doors. nationalism is emerging across many member states with increasing blatantness and open-mindedness, without encountering any real resistance. the debate on the amendment of the treaty is far removed from the votes in france and the netherlands, the calls for more democracy, for more social responsibility for europe, for a response to globalisation, for more capacity to act. all the demands on the table today have nothing to do with what the people have asked for. but they have a lot to do with what the governments have long and repeatedly called for in the convention: the enforcement of their own claims to power and the violation and suspension of the consensus that we have wrested from them in the convention. no, the advantages of europe, of greater social responsibility and more democracy are no longer in question. the governments in france and the netherlands are abusing the vote. they are abusing it to create less europe, their europe, the intergovernmental europe, the non-social europe. we shouldn't be watching this! this constitution is a guarantee of european democracy and thus of the solution of the social questions of the future. i doubt that the central principle of negotiation, which is not to hold a referendum, is a viable solution. we will not overcome this crisis of confidence in europe by bypassing the citizens. we can only solve them by winning the citizens over. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have received a great deal of good advice in the constitutional debate over the last few months: good, well-meaning advice and some that were not even well-meaning. the most macabre of these proposals was probably to take the charter of fundamental rights out of the core text and keep it alive, at least technically, with a reference. at first glance, this suggestion may have seemed well-intentioned. if you want a short, simple, easy-to-read text, this is a good idea. 65 fewer articles this is perhaps very important in view of the lack of reading which pisa attests to us for this common europe. but a closer look reveals a different picture. what is the subject of fundamental rights? it is about nothing more and nothing less than protecting the individual from those in power. this has been and must continue to be one of the most important tasks of any community in history. that is why the proposal to downplay the charter of fundamental rights, to make it small and as invisible as possible, is so strange. in austria we have had a campaign for many years called "light in the dark". it is designed to help the socially vulnerable during the christmas season, but not only at christmas. we also need to act as a 'light in the dark' on the charter of fundamental rights, and i am pleased that in today's debate many people have expressed their support for keeping the charter of fundamental rights in the spotlight and ensuring that we will continue to have a constitutional treaty as an important core text in our community law.
in writing. on the occasion of the discussion on the roadmap for the eu constitutional process, i welcome the explicit support of the european parliament for the content of the constitutional treaty, which was clearly confirmed in the draft resolution. i would also like to stress that two thirds of the member states have already ratified the constitutional treaty and that we, as representatives of the people, have a political responsibility to listen to the voice of all the member states. i therefore ask that all the basic principles contained in part i of the constitutional treaty be retained. i think everyone will agree that the constitutional treaty contains important improvements in the area of consolidating the existing treaties and merging the pillars, the recognition of the values on which the european union is founded, the legal binding of the charter of fundamental rights, and also the participation of citizens in political life. for these reasons, i support the efforts of the german presidency to reach agreement on the establishment of a roadmap by the end of the year and, following the report, i call for the ratification process of the new treaty to be completed before the end of 2008. in this context, i call on the commission to play its full part in the forthcoming negotiations and to involve the european parliament in them.
the commission has already done so. every day more illegal immigrants are trying to reach mainland europe, and every day we see unbearable situations and unbearable tragedies in southern europe. the european union has created frontex. the european parliament was prepared to double the annual budget for border control. the commission has now allocated eur 35 million to frontex. nevertheless, more illegals are crossing the borders into the european union every day. it simply means that border protection is not working! the assistance to member states, the coordination work that frontex is supposed to do, is not working. if there are shortcomings in coordination, frontex's work is to be criticised. but if the member states do not provide the necessary staff and equipment as they have promised, then the member states must be criticised and held accountable. in any case, we must not leave the southern european countries alone in this situation. i have a question to our commissioner: in a press release on 24 may the commission said that the number of aircraft, ships and other equipment brought in so far was satisfactory. today we read in another commission communication a criticism of the member states which have delivered only one tenth of the ships, planes and helicopters promised. what is right? can you put that right, commissioner? if we have already set up the frontex agency and provided it with so many resources, then it must also be able to work successfully. if not, we'll just have to take them down and find another way. in any case - and here i appeal to all those responsible - the european union must not only monitor our own borders but also help to set up a functioning border control system in the transit countries. this is a local assistance which in turn helps us to provide stabilisation assistance and carry out information campaigns on the ground in the countries of origin. it is time to take action, in any case, instead of discussing a situation which is intolerable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out that the new secretary-general, harald rømer, is seriously violating the principle of equal treatment for all members and the principle of a fair trial. in a case brought against me, there is a very clear statement by the director-general for finance with very clear conclusions. mr rømer claims that there is no such thing. that's what he says on the record, but internally, he says otherwise. it's a lie. i demand that this investigation be made public and accessible. in addition, in the course of the proceedings in which i am trying to defend myself legally, mr rømer denies me access to translations of various documents of the general secretariat, again with the faint indication that there are supposedly no official final translations. i am also massively hampered by the fact that i am denied access to the group of non-attached members by a staff member who has already received a written commitment. if a member, mr president - and you know very well that he is aware of many of these things - is discriminated against in this way, as i have been in this house, then this parliament cannot be called a democratic parliament. the problem here is that mr rømer is arbitrary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i, too, regret that the attention to what is being presented here is so low, but probably for different reasons than most of you. i am glad that so few people are aware of what is being presented again. i am convinced that there is no other place in the world where you get so much for so little as here in the european parliament, whether as a member of parliament or as a civil servant. if you look at what's in the waste statement, there's a 60 percent increase in the contingency expenditure, an explosion in the redevelopment from 17 million to 27 million, especially for architectural and engineering costs. i am convinced that the rapporteur who is nodding at me is trying very honestly to keep the lid on this a little. but the major groups and the majority here will not let him! i do not know where you come from, and i do not know whether i will ever be able to give you back the feeling that you may have originally had when you entered politics, with idealism, which i would not recommend to anyone. but what are we doing here with 1.5 billion? we all know we could get away with half of it. but you don't want to, you waste. then mrs. gräßle is talking about having more staff. the only one who criticizes this here does not even get one! i tell you, if the people really knew what was going on here, they would not call this parliament a democratic parliament but a den of arbitrariness and waste!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think this debate in the house makes a lot of sense. it's the people in charge. i believe that it is important to be the master of one's own house, and that includes the corresponding working conditions. i think that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. it should be taken for granted that we have the necessary computer equipment and internet access at our workplaces so that we can carry out our work properly and thoroughly here in the chamber. in addition, the building lacks suitable meeting rooms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must also work to improve our working conditions accordingly. it would also be useful if the public could see how individual members of this house act. it would not hurt to have a web-tv broadcast now and to have the ratings the next day for the individual episodes we're discussing here. it would then be very clear that the european citizens are very much interested in what is happening here in parliament. that's why it's important to reach out to a wider range of journalists. i have great respect for our brussels correspondents. but much more needs to be done - including through the training programmes for journalists in europe - to bring the understanding of europe into a factual assessment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, because the reform of the fruit and vegetable sector has certainly not been an easy task. it has already been mentioned by my predecessors that this is a very large sector of our agricultural production. but with this reform we will also be able to take an important step towards modernising this sector of european agriculture. in view of the increasing international competition in the context of globalisation, our priority must be to increase the competitiveness of european fruit and vegetable producers, while ensuring that the high quality of european products is maintained at reasonable prices for consumers. one way of doing this is through producer groups, which help them to better represent themselves on the market. in particular, the promotion of the consumption of fruit and vegetables should be supported, because these are also positive health measures. mrs gräßle, of the epp group, will table an oral amendment tomorrow asking the commission not to draw up a first report on the implementation of the title concerning producer organisations, the operational fund and the operational programmes until 2013, as planned. we want to have a first report on this by the end of 2010 and then every three years. we want transparency, and we also want to be sure that the support is getting to where we want it. seven years is too long for that. it is therefore our responsibility to secure the future of european fruit and vegetable growers by creating a safety net through targeted aid to link sustainable production with high quality and a healthy environment.
i have to say, madam president, the constitution is intended not least to provide the basis for our being better able to pursue a common foreign and security policy. the constitution is only a prerequisite for this, not a sufficient condition. we cannot wait until we have the constitution to take any substantial steps. mr president-in-office, i know that you have also been very involved personally, so i would ask you to be very involved in the middle east in the coming weeks, in addition to other tasks. we had a debate yesterday under the heading '40 years later'. forty years later, we are still not sufficiently supportive of those forces on both sides - on the israeli side and on the palestinian side and the arab side - who are committed to peace. i have been looking at a number of israeli comments in the last few days, by dan diener, tom segev, meir shalev and yael dajan. they all clearly represent the principle of 'country for peace'. the palestinians and, with the saudi plan, the arabs have now made clear their commitment to this. the european union must therefore pursue a clear policy of supporting all those forces - and thus also the current palestinian government - which are committed to these principles and who really want to fight extremism and terrorism. we must put an end to this artificial division, which consists of talking to one and not to the other. there is a common government in israel and a common government in palestine which need our support to create the conditions for the peace process. in this context, mr president-in-office, i would ask you - and i know how committed you are - to continue to support, even in the final days of your presidency, all those forces which are able and willing to put an end to the violence and to create the conditions for a peace process. in this way your presidency would not only be working towards a constitution but also laying the foundations for a common foreign and security policy in the middle east.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the german presidency's motto is 'europe can only succeed together'. the new treaty has been drawn up in a transparent manner by the personal representatives of the heads of state or government, all national parliaments and the eu institutions. the president of the council said in the european parliament in january of this year that there should be no tolerance in europe for intolerance. we should also make it our aim at the summit to say: there must be no tolerance for ignorance, ignorance of one's own signature, ignorance of the community of peace, freedom, democracy and solidarity, ignorance of the work of the members of the convention and ignorance of the common political objectives of the eu. the european union is not a single institution, but a single institution, and it is not a single institution that is not a single institution. the motto 'europe only works together' is also a clear rejection of the europe à la carte, the europe of two speeds, the so-called third chamber. i'll tell you why. the european union can only succeed if it continues along the path of mutual consideration, of solidarity and not becomes a community of raisins pickers. separation weakens the whole. the national parliaments are strengthened by the reservation of subsidiarity. they cannot be strengthened by participating in european legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i find that, to say the least, very regrettable. the council was asked to be present at this debate almost a month ago. we were promised it, too. i do not understand why there is no secretary of state or anyone else in the government of the council presidency who can be there. i think you should make it quite clear that we are very disappointed.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not our group fully supports this. the situation is so confusing that everything we say today may not be valid tomorrow or the day after. it is therefore certainly sensible to take account of the situation and then adopt such a resolution in july.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we had the lights on when we voted, and then all of a sudden, all the lights went out. it's not like the machine doesn't work and we have to tell the technicians. the question is whether this is the way to win majorities over such an important issue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that in the european union, the torture of animals that can be avoided is still considered legitimate. that is why, in a poll i sponsored in the european parliament on wednesday on the subject of 'building a european centre for the protection and welfare of animals', presented by mr magister moser on the idea of the animal welfare groups dr ganzer and dr habersack, there was great support from the colleagues present. the centre's activities include a europe-wide network of animal welfare initiatives to promote animal welfare more effectively. it will also help to establish common standards for member states to follow and to adhere to. other areas of activity of this centre could be the active exchange of information, the development of labels and scientific research. this event, with participants from the intergroup 'animal protection and conservation', the active animal welfare community in styria and european policy, was therefore an important step for the european union in the field of animal welfare. i would ask you, mr president, to support and promote this idea with the help of this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you in particular for the energy club in this house, but i also pay the utmost respect to the staff of this house. this event was broadcast worldwide and had the positive effect of not only enabling parliament to legislate but also providing incentives to gather the best ideas from around the world, making a very useful contribution to the climate debate. i would be very happy if it were possible to hold this event again next year.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to congratulate commissioner reding very warmly. as she predicted, the roaming regulation will come into force before the summer. this was a great achievement by the council, parliament and the commission. we have solved a problem together and can be proud that the regulation will come into force during the german presidency. i flew out of a german airport last friday and saw the first prospectus of t-mobile, a provider in germany that has already offered its mobile roaming service at a premium rate. you can see it's working. we are also proud that the new contracts that european consumers are now concluding before their holidays will naturally be subject to these european protection tariffs from the first day of the entry into force of the regulation. it was a lot of work to get this through, but we got it done before the summer and i think the competition in this area is going to be extremely good. we're going to need three months to get transparency in broadband. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information available to the public. we should try as soon as possible to offer what is called a flat rate or a standardised tariff here too, so that you can compare across europe and internationally what it costs to operate in the broadband sector. for example, in africa, we already have 15 countries that do not charge for roaming. we have already in europe telecommunications operators who do not charge a roaming tariff across several countries, and we also have telecommunications operators who offer specific charges in a particular area on their own network. so you can see the competition is going very well. we could imagine that in the future we have corresponding billing systems based on bits and that we push forward international bilateral agreements that allow us to have this broadband technology at reasonable prices.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not as we discuss here today the labelling, the designation of origin and the production of spirits, it is gratifying to see that a workable compromise is presented to us which seems to be suitable for preserving the tradition and the national characteristics of spirits production throughout europe. but let me make a few remarks in this context on a related problem: the age of entry has decreased not only for smoking but also for drinking. firstly, the eu has already embarked on a joint approach and campaigns to boost young people's self-confidence. the second one, i think it's time we did the same. the name of the drink may be secondary to the young consumer and will probably not change the problem. the introduction of special taxes on alcohol-based drinks, for example, only led to a shift towards beer and wine-based mixed drinks. that is why the number of young people drinking coma has not decreased. young people are probably not drinking as much as they used to, and the reasons for drinking are the same. but what is at play is the breakdown of social structures such as that of the traditional family, increasing isolation in front of the television and the computer, and often the lack of alternatives. the production of high-quality spirits across europe is an important thing. on the other hand, the protection of young people is certainly equally important in this context.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank horst schnellhardt in advance for his excellent work. i think he has really created a workable compromise which we should all support tomorrow. let us remember that this is not a debate about old versus new member states. it's not about good or bad alcohol, and it's not about capital versus labor. the point is that, with the recasting of the spirits regulation, we are adapting it to the present circumstances. this means that we want to provide our consumers with good products and to label them correctly. if the debate is now reduced to the vodka question, then one must ask oneself first of all whether this is justified and secondly what is behind it. it is a very presumptuous thing to say that if you distil alcohol so high that you have no taste at all, the origin of the raw materials should be decisive for the name of the product. we therefore do well to adapt to the current situation in europe - that is, that vodka production is already everywhere, even though it may have originated in poland - and not to throw the baby out with the bath. we should remind ourselves that we have achieved a great deal. we have improved consumer protection and we have also made it possible, among other things, to better identify traditional products. that is why i am convinced that it is a really good compromise. thank you again to horst schnellhardt! tomorrow we should all support this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur. the compromise is that in the future, spirits will be less synthetic, which means that we will find higher quality in the different spirits. the national interests are also taken into account in the compromise and, from the austrian side, i am naturally particularly fond of the jagatee. no one in this house can avoid discussing the definition of vodka. i have not yet understood why many of the speakers have acted as if there were no definition of vodka and the term vodka was now too broadly defined. the opposite is true. we have an existing definition of vodka in the european union and the compromise of the european parliament, which is also supported by our rapporteur, is opposed to traditional vodka producers - if only a few countries are involved, which we have heard today is not the case. you should think about that for the vote tomorrow.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the gaza strip is not a new palestinian state, it is a prison where the people, the palestinians, the palestinian people, especially women, children and the elderly, are confined and quartered in terrible conditions. the recent explosion of violence, the seizure of power in the gaza strip by hamas militias, was of course made possible by a variety of misconduct on the part of european politics, american politics, israeli politics and fatah. the israeli policy of denying the palestinian government tax funds and building a wall against the palestinian people, the us policy of allowing all this and proving incapable of bringing all the parties to the conflict to the same table, and finally the european policy, including our own in this house, which has not been able to support a democratically elected government, which also includes unsympathetic and unpopular forces, and in so doing to support the moderates, in order to allow those forces to grow in hamas which could have taken a path of reason, are to blame for these conditions. we know that now with the hamas takeover, there are four radical forces in the middle east: iran, syria, hezbollah and hamas itself. we also know that radical islamism, as preached by hamas, is very dangerous, that the allied factors are the forces that support islamist terrorism worldwide, and that we europeans must of course fight back massively against it. on the other hand, we must also stand up for the palestinian right to self-determination, we are in favour of the palestinians electing the forces they want to their government, and not the ones we want. we don't have the option of choosing. we must not repeat the mistakes of the past and we must talk to and support the palestinian forces which have the support of the majority of the people. the security of israel is an important issue for europe. but the prospects for the palestinian people are just as important, and if we achieve that, we have the opportunity to create lasting peace in the middle east.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the purpose of such a report or committee of inquiry will be the subject of a long debate. and the result will not be to compensate consumers for the damage they have suffered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can take some lessons from this to do things better, to regulate and control better. the only one who is actually causing the damage, the insurance company itself, is almost only peripherally affected. disguise has dominated the business policy of this insurance company. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if this attitude leads to the belief that we can leave the self-sufficiency of the rest of our lives to such an uncontrollable market, then our common political responsibility is in a very bad way! the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the commission will be consulted on the matter. if this report has any meaning, it is that the council, the commission and we must create accompanying and monitoring laws - i say this as the person responsible for solvency - which can give consumers more confidence and security, especially in terms of provision for the end of life. i am particularly pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation, which is not only a new system but also a new system of taxation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee's work has revealed omissions, documented negligent behaviour by managers in the company, identified many gaps, and made 70 conclusions and recommendations. the european parliament has taken its responsibility in this committee of inquiry. but the report is not the conclusion and the end of a scandal, but it is the basis for the need for action at all the political and economic levels involved. the united kingdom has not implemented the third life insurance directive adequately, the commission has not carried out full controls, the supervisory authorities have not done their job in several member states, the management of the company has abused the trust of the insured, has lied to people and acted negligently, and the controls have not worked. we have enough to do. but we should also make it clear that european law is not the cause of the problem. the reason is the lack of implementation and control of the policy. i am a supporter of the market economy, but we should not rely on the free market. we have quite deliberately replaced the free market with the social market economy in the new constitutional treaty. we have a responsibility to create the necessary conditions and to take control: as much market as possible, but as much government control as necessary. and in this tension, it is important to draw the necessary political and economic conclusions from this report, particularly on the question of pensions, pensions, guarantees and, consequently, on the question of how to deal with the confidence of citizens in political and economic measures.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur's report sets out in detail what could and should be done to improve the balance between family life and study in the european union. demographic trends show that fewer and fewer well-educated women are willing to work and have a family at the same time. why should they? young academics have the highest expectations of themselves, so they also have the highest expectations of their families. the saying "god gives a goose to the one who gives a rabbit" may have been a part of women's thinking in earlier times. but that's over. it is now up to us politicians to create the conditions to meet the demands of young people. that means we have to rebuild a family-friendly society. we're standing in front of the wreckage. raising children today requires either great wealth or great self-sufficiency. because our society has so far fostered more than children. look around you . where do children find unencumbered freedom today? where are children really welcome? even park areas are littered with signs forbidding gambling. in my home city of vienna, last week a man shot children playing because they were too loud. most member states spend far too little taxpayer money on education and training, mr heaton-harris. our classrooms are overcrowded, teachers are overworked. we want to raise confident individuals in schools that still function like barracks. are we promoting family-friendly housing? no, the real estate market is driven solely by profit! a young man in the city is happy nowadays if he can afford a room in a shared apartment. yet, decades ago, that may not have stopped anyone from starting a family. but today's young people want quality of life above all else, and politics must guarantee it!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm glad to see so many men in this discussion today. i suspect that many of them are also fathers who object to their daughters being disadvantaged in the future. perhaps this is the way to achieve greater equality. as we have heard many times today, the reconciliation of work and private life is becoming increasingly important politically, not least because we have also recognized that the advantage of the great potential of the female workforce on the one hand and the lack of children on the other can no longer be overlooked and must not be overlooked. the implementation of the barcelona target is unfortunately very disappointing as far as childcare facilities are concerned. we find that the statistics on parents of students vary from country to country. in austria, for example, the share is 10.8%, in sweden 41%. this is proof that with the right framework, other situations can be created. it's obvious, we just have to take it. the birth of a child during the course of study must not be the reason for postponing or cancelling the course for a long time or for not starting it at all. we need more support, we need more childcare facilities in universities and colleges, and we need to do this at socially equitable rates.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr horst schnellhardt, in advance for having negotiated an excellent compromise which has now, thank god, found the necessary majority in the plenary. for us austrians, the question of the jagate was particularly interesting. we have succeeded, together with the council ministers, mr pröll and mr seehofer, in finding a compromise which is entirely feasible for us. our german friends now have a drink that they can produce exclusively under the name of hüttentee. i think that is the best way of solving this problem and that there is general agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted for the schnellhardt report because each country - including my home country, austria - has developed its own, often regional, specialties and spirits. the question of the jagate has already been raised. it was very important for us because i believe that these traditions, even in the field of spirits, are part of the national identity of a country. protecting manufacturing methods is also a guarantee of high quality and of course a guarantee that established manufacturers and manufacturing methods are protected. the fact that the so-called vodka war has now come to an end was another reason for me to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i am voting in favour of a ban on the import and export of cat and dog fur (and products containing such fur) into and out of the eu from 31 december 2008. it is particularly important that no derogations are allowed and that the regulation does not contribute to the promotion of fur trade. i reject the idea of mandatory labelling as too costly and insufficient. i also support specific penalties such as confiscation or the withdrawal of licences and hope that the member states will establish these sanctions and ensure that they are implemented. the aim is to establish a regular exchange of information on the implementation of the regulation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we abstained on the quisthoudt-rowohl report, although it is of course welcome that trade between russia and the european union grew by 20% in the previous year and that individual member states are cooperating more closely with russia in the field of oil and gas, for example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. energy supplies are being used as a strategic and political weapon, as we should have been aware of since the russian-ukrainian conflict at the latest. in this respect, we europeans will have to think of a common line and strategic planning now, so that we can also offer russia a clear position in the foreseeable event that such things happen again. but we should not forget that we are interdependent and that our aim must be to form a viable axis between europe and russia, which in my view should not be limited to trade relations.
screening is important, prevention is better. in recent months, we have seen the development of a vaccine against cervical cancer, a cancer that is always particularly problematic in young women. now the member states have quite different practices. some of them are accessible through social security, others are only privately funded. it is a very expensive and therefore a social issue. does the commission see any way of influencing the member states to make this vaccine available to as many young women and girls as possible?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you mentioned the subject of alcoholism. in austria, a rare or not so rare phenomenon has developed among young people, namely the so-called coma drinking. the goal seems to be to knock you unconscious with as much alcohol as possible in the shortest possible time. in your experience, is this a purely austrian phenomenon, or is there a european trend here? if this is a european trend, have you considered any measures to counteract such extreme drinking and to prevent it in the long term?
the goal is actually to live a long, healthy life. do you have any suggestions on how existing european union programmes, such as the seventh framework programme for research or the competition and innovation programme, could be used to achieve these objectives, and what are your plans for 2013?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all say yes to the single market, and it should be expanded because it is our strongest response to globalisation. we all say that mobility is a good thing, but it is not sufficiently developed in the european union. strengthening the internal market and supporting mobility, however, requires that we do not lose sight of social security as a network. we need to strengthen occupational retirement provision - the second pillar - in europe, as a complement to the first pillar, not as a replacement. that is why we have tabled the directive on the pension fund for the occupational pension scheme. we must of course also have a policy on the portability of intra-company pension rights. we must ensure that the rights of workers are preserved. the transferability of new contracts, which is easier than the old ones, the acquisition of rights and the treatment of dismissed workers, as well as dormant rights, must therefore be clarified. what is the basis for the calculation, how do we treat the amount and duration of the contributions, the expected duration of the withdrawal? it is a question of balancing the economic security of the enterprises with the social security of the workers, and it is a question of balancing those who stay with the enterprise with those who leave for reasons of job security or career reasons. we will not be able to conclude with today's decision. it is a positioning of parliament as a basis for further negotiations. we want a solution. we want a solution that takes both the entrepreneurial and social aspects into account and that finds a compromise. i therefore ask that the social committee's motion be supported.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. a special thanks to ria oomen-ruijten for her excellent work. the german presidency's representative today has spoken of maximum demands, and that is an exaggeration without any foundation. the proposal for a directive is part of the lisbon agenda and meets the demands of workers that, while removing obstacles to the free movement of workers, the acquisition and maintenance of acquired rights and entitlements to supplementary pensions must also be ensured. the member states are granted a five-year period for adjustment and restructuring in order to ensure that the outstanding claims are treated fairly. this point in article 5 is also the core of the proposal for a directive. if the request of mr mann is accepted, the proposal for a directive will be stripped of its essential content and the proposal will become worthless for the workers. we pass economic laws, we talk great about good social conditions, but then we do the opposite. the socialist group cannot accept this approach, which has been brought to the fore by thomas mann's amendments, because these points deal with the core elements and key questions of the proposal for a directive. i would ask you to follow the rapporteur's suggestion for a progressive solution.
in writing. the mobility of workers is a fundamental right in the european union. this can only be achieved if the right conditions are created. this is particularly true in the area of social systems. it is not enough that only state pension entitlements are transferable, but this must also apply to occupational pension schemes. it is important that the rules remain manageable and that well-intentioned approaches do not destroy the added value, because overbureaucratization can lead to a blockage. overall, the approach chosen is a step in the right direction.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. economic experts seem to agree on a general economic upturn in the euro area. they even speak of a continuing positive employment trend. but all too often, i think, there is only an increase in parttime work - or new forms of employment, as they are fondly called - which can hardly compensate for the loss of fulltime jobs. with these conditions in place, we need not be surprised by the decline in the number of children. a mac job can't feed a family! to boast of a recovery here is a slap in the face for every one of the millions of unemployed in the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have a problem which cannot be underestimated, namely the widening of existing divergences in the euro area, such as the continuing deterioration of the competitive position of the southern european countries. the fact that the euro is not a panacea is borne out by the example of the united kingdom alone. the british economy is well established even without the euro. the uk is the world's sixth largest manufacturer and eighth largest service provider. for this reason alone, i do not think that any eu member state should be pressured into adopting the euro. the fears of the european central bank losing sovereignty are to be taken as seriously as the fear of price increases. the euro is perceived by many millions of citizens as the euro, as it has led to significant increases in the prices of everyday goods. official counter-statistics and image campaigns will not change that. if a member state is about to adopt the euro, i believe that the sovereign, the people, should always be the one to decide.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i just need your attention for a moment. the present report on the community programme fiscalis, a legislative report, has become a case of shameful censorship. the reasoning of my report was arbitrarily and in a completely incomprehensible way censured by the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the socialist pervenche berès. this is not worthy of a parliament which calls itself democratic. the censored passages, after a long debate on the waste of money and the control of the european commission, are in an addendum - perhaps mr president, you can rest assured - in an addendum which has been attached for those who are interested. (disturbance)
in writing. thanks to the visions of some multi-cultural dreamers, a situation has arisen that is becoming increasingly difficult for the indigenous population to bear. the immigrants and their children not only often show no consideration for the indigenous population, but on the contrary demand more and more rights for themselves, seemingly want to uproot their christian-western roots and, on the contrary, are simply deaf to obligations or obligations such as the will to integrate. the general opening of public housing to non-eu nationals and non-integrated neo-eu citizens has not only led to great insecurity among the indigenous population, but also to a massive deterioration of housing and living conditions, with violent outbreaks soon becoming commonplace. in view of these realities, the right of admission should be strengthened in general. the coelho report is not suitable for this, which is why i rejected it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my support for the report and i voted in favour of it. it is important that we have a european strategy on mercury, as it is one of the most serious environmental toxins, and europe certainly needs to be at the forefront of this. i voted against tightening partly because i believe that it is necessary to provide for a smooth transition and to provide for a smooth transition in order not to put competitiveness too much at risk. i am also concerned about the excessive bureaucratization, and that is why we must be careful here. the report is very positive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the internal market and mobility require social security, even after active working life. the balance between employer and employee, which is essential for the acquisition of pension rights, must be maintained. this was the first reading and we shall have many more discussions. the epp delegation has given its full support to the oomen-ruijten report, as we believe it is the right approach to further develop mobility and the single market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. while the introduction of the euro has undoubtedly brought many benefits - such as in crossborder trade - it is important to note that there are also less positive aspects, such as the surrender of sovereign rights or price increases. finally, as with eu enlargement, the introduction of the euro in new member states will affect the delicate stability of the whole system. i think it is therefore essential to ensure that the balance of the whole is not disturbed by the addition of weak economies. now, cyprus and malta may be ready. in the past, however, too many people played with drawn cards to gain entry into the euro club. i do not think that such an important decision should be taken without the consent of the people, which is why i abstained in this case.
mr president, i would like to extend the question a little: it is quite nice to try to achieve uniform or aligned vat rates in europe. but the aim of european tax policy should be to have uniform or at least comparable tax rates and taxes throughout the european union. i would be interested to know how this question is being discussed in the council in general, whether there are any approaches to this and if so, which ones.
minister! mass legalisation of illegal immigrants in various eu countries has often been seen as an invitation and has led to a veritable refugee storm and also provided a boom for the smugglers. how far are you planning to expand the number of return agreements, especially with those countries receiving financial support from the eu?
mr president, i would like to say that i think that your efforts in certain areas may not have been entirely successful. in particular, as far as my competence is concerned, i am concerned with what i consider to be the indecent and certainly human rights-violating checks on european passengers at american airports. i think that's a condition that is not acceptable in the long run. i would like to know what you are going to do about these measures taken in the united states under the guise of combating terrorism.
minister! if you are right to point out that the council does not want to deal with this issue, i would like to ask you why, despite the fact that polls show that 51% of poles are against the planned deployment of this american missile defence system, calls for citizens' initiatives are rejected after a referendum and why referendums are said to be inappropriate. what is the council's position on the question of public participation in such important decisions? is there any way to at least mediate here?
i believe that air transport in and of itself needs to be reorganised. the council is therefore entitled to ask: is it intended that in future, when discriminatory measures are taken, action will be taken in the framework of intergovernmental cooperation or bilaterally, or do you think it is right for the commission to take the initiative in this area?
the council presidency is honoured. what initiatives does the presidency intend to take in the field of economic policy, particularly in the field of energy policy? could you imagine using the sme charter or the energy charter, for example, as a way of countering unemployment in the economic process and of implementing the lisbon agenda in an attractive way?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, vice-president of the commission! with the proposals we have drawn up in this report, we are taking a step towards a common european asylum system. the report, which i believe parliament will give wide support to, is a clear commitment by the european parliament to a functioning european asylum system, which aims to make quick, fair and secure decisions in the interests of those concerned. it builds on closer cooperation between authorities, and this should aim to build and increase trust between member states, to speed up decision-making and thus to help those who are actually entitled to asylum more quickly than before, and to combat abuse of asylum accordingly. i have been able to identify ten key demands and i would like to thank in particular the shadow rapporteurs for their support and the commission for the excellent proposal which has served as the basis for this discussion. these 10 core requirements are: the first is to establish uniform procedures to ensure that decisions are taken quickly and safely. the second is the introduction of a list of safe third countries, where it can be decided very clearly on a case-by-case basis whether a claim exists or not. the third is the creation of a common database on the situation in the countries of origin, so that all the competent officials in the different member states have the same information on the situation and are thus able to make confident decisions on the basis of the same information in all european countries. fourthly, we need appropriately qualified officials to make the decisions. the proposal is therefore to develop a european curriculum so that qualifications are acquired in all countries according to the same standards. fifth, we will help member states facing particular migratory pressures by providing temporary teams of experts from the various member states to deal with asylum cases quickly, for a limited period of time, for as long as necessary. the sixth point is that we need improved measures in relation to the return of persons, both those who do not receive refugee status and those who are denied refugee status. the seventh point is - and it concerns prevention, i have already mentioned this several times - that we need to launch information campaigns of the most intensive kind to inform potential migrants in the countries of origin and transit about the risks of illegal immigration and the consequences of not being recognised as refugees, and also to tell them how to enter the european union legally. the eighth point concerns the european aid agency. we in the committee did not agree with the commission's proposal. i think it is better to provide the commission with more staff and more money than to create a new agency. i think it's more efficient and less expensive. the ninth point is that we must demand from the member states that directives or regulations adopted at european level are then actually implemented in reality. the proposal is to draw up a so-called equivalence list, which means that the member states should indicate by what measures they consider that they have implemented the relevant union standards. the tenth and final point is the division of the burden, which is provided on the one hand by the support of expert teams, so that procedures can be carried out more quickly, especially in special situations. indirectly, we also achieve a certain degree of burden sharing when we have uniform procedures, because then people do not turn more to those where the procedures are sloppy or with incorrect information. it shouldn't be. we have tried to work out in a catalogue of points how we believe that in the future, people who are actually on the run and who receive asylum status -- that is, refugee status -- can be helped quickly, but other people can be made exactly as clear that they cannot get that status. thank you for your cooperation and support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i would like to congratulate commissioner kuneva and the rapporteur, because the digital environment is becoming increasingly important to us and we must of course also make sure that it is affordable for the european public. there's a lot to do. we have, thank god, got the roaming regulation under control. as announced here in the plenary on monday, competition is now beginning to develop in europe in this area. we read yesterday on the front page of the bild newspaper that the biggest providers in germany are already taking action with the euro-protection tariff in setting fees. this was reported yesterday and today on ard television. here comes movement in the landscape. we need more transparency, especially on mobile phones. until now, you didn't know what the data transfer cost until the end of the month. this scheme will now make it possible for the first time to achieve better prices through greater transparency and therefore to make the digital environment future-oriented in the mobile sector as well. this is crucial. but it will also be necessary to conclude international agreements in connection with this roaming regulation, which will come into force at the end of this month, so that not only cheap telephony and data can be made available in the eu of 27, but also that we can achieve reasonable conditions of competition at international level and that there will finally be competition in international roaming. for many consumers who sign new contracts, i believe the tariff will be in force as from the end of next week. here, when you are on holiday or on a business trip, you can already see the low euro tariffs in force. competition is likely to push prices down even further, and digital communications will play a key role in europe's competitiveness.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we should congratulate mr fruteau on his election to the french national assembly. for us this may not be good, but for him it is certainly a happy event.
in writing. a certain amount of exchange of information from the criminal record is certainly welcome, especially in sensitive areas such as paedophilia, but also to better control drug dealers and other organised crime structures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not misled by the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. as the example of so-called hooligan files shows, it is often enough to have been in the vicinity of an incident to be placed on such a 'blacklist'. in addition, this approach, without limiting it to sensitive areas, is already problematic for data protection reasons, which is why i could not vote in favour of it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the austrian delegation to the epp abstained on this report because we believe that, for reasons of subsidiarity, the decision should be taken by the regional, local and national authorities. i'm sure these are tragic individual fates. however, the decision-making process should not be moved to brussels for political reasons, but should remain with the competent local authorities.
in writing. everyone is equal before the law, only some are more equal. the eu seems to enjoy a certain degree of bird-watching freedom in the context of migration. not only is there a misguided respect for other customs that allows one to get away with it, but the media also fails to report on crime and racism among immigrants. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat racism and xenophobia. rather, the racist stick is being wielded by government agencies to eliminate unwelcome opposition. banning national, home-grown parties on the pretext of racism simply because they cite government statistics on disproportionately high crime rates by immigrants is not likely to be possible in a democracy. the proposed framework decision on racism is another step towards a totalitarian state in which multicultural dreamers want to drive us to the brink of extinction. it is time to pull the handbrake, which is why i voted against the roure report.
in writing. i am in favour of a common proactive eu asylum policy. the basis of this policy is the obligation to admit asylum seekers and the principle of non-refoulement. i also support a fairer distribution of the burden between the member states, a common database on countries of origin and information campaigns in the countries of origin and transit. i support the introduction of a common asylum procedure at eu level by 2010 and the introduction of a uniform status for persons entitled to asylum or subsidiary protection.
in writing. the report shall only approve the information campaigns planned in the countries of origin. i voted against this document because if the uk accepts 12% of all asylum applications and sweden accepts 91% of all asylum applications, we will never be able to agree on anything. we will not be able to tackle asylum shopping with a single eu regulation as long as asylum is abused to circumvent legal immigration rules and our procedures are dragged out with pointless objections when there is simply no asylum ground. as long as you can throw away the papers and stay in the eu for years with the magic word asylum, there are plenty of opportunities for theft or even for hiding. the only way to stop this abuse is to limit the number of asylum applications to reception centres at eu borders.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. on 11 june, 38 leading opposition figures were found guilty. the charges range from crimes against the constitution to high treason and are related to the mass protests following the disputed elections two years ago, in which nearly 200 people were killed. the ethiopian parliamentary commission of inquiry before its members were arrested or deported abroad found that the security forces used disproportionate force and that snipers targeted leading opposition politicians. the verdict is expected in the next few months, and there is a risk that most of the defendants will be sentenced to death. we call on the ethiopian government to release all political prisoners immediately and unconditionally. the ethiopian judicial authorities must urgently reconsider their verdict and the government must ensure an independent judicial system and freedom of the press.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw your attention today to the roma and sinti in europe. this marginalised group is the largest minority in europe, with 12 million people. the situation of the roma and sinti is appalling. the daily confrontation with racism and discrimination and a widespread lack of prospects prevent this ethnic group from becoming an integral part of our democratic and pluralistic society. i was particularly shocked to hear an austrian would-be politician, who is probably one of the disgraces of this profession, say recently that these people should be washed off the streets with steam-powered radiators when they beg. i am therefore particularly pleased that there is another direction in austria, namely the graz initiative, which deals with the problems of this group and has set itself the task of helping the roma and sinti out of their difficult situation and promoting their integration. last week, key members of this initiative were in brussels for several meetings with eu meps and commission staff to look for solutions to the problems of these people. i would like to congratulate this initiative on this step. it is the right approach to look for solutions to these problems in europe.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to thank the three rapporteurs, and in particular mrs doyle, who drew up the report on which i am the shadow rapporteur for the socialist group. i would like to try to work out the similarities but also the differences between our positions. i support the approach of basing the regulations on two legal bases, as do the previous speakers from my group, because for me the argument of increased consumer safety contained in this commission proposal is really the main one. as rapporteur doyle has already mentioned, only three member states have so far transposed an enzyme safety assessment into their national law. this is why we need a safety assessment at european level, especially for consumer safety. i hope that tomorrow the plenary will follow the committee's lead and adopt another criterion in addition to the criteria laid down in the commission text for the inclusion of a food enzyme in the community list: that its use must be of benefit to the consumer. an important issue for me - and for many other members in this house - is the enzyme produced from genetically modified organisms. i remember it well: a few years ago, when we discussed the regulation on genetically modified food and feed in this house, many of us tried to help to break through the wish of the european people that enzymes produced from genetically modified organisms be labelled accordingly. we were referred to this general revision of the enzyme legislation. we are now at that point, and i believe that the time has come to give a breakthrough to the wishes of a large majority of the european people. if i may now move directly from my own area of responsibility to the report by mrs westlund, i will of course support the co-decision approach, because we should ensure the widest possible transparency on a subject such as enzymes. it is interesting, however, that the commission is advocating extended comitology here, while we are running into a wall on another dossier on genetically modified organisms. i find it very interesting that in the case of enzymes it is said that the regulatory procedure with control is possible for individual authorization, whereas in other matters such as genetically modified organisms this is obviously not yet the case.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to quote an austrian proverb to the effect of what my predecessor said: 'he who believes will be blessed, but he who does not will also go to heaven'. perhaps now i can shake up the world view of my colleague renate sommer: it is not just green members, but the majority in this house, who wanted a consumer- and environment-friendly solution to the authorization and labelling of genetically modified food and feed. a government close to you has also questioned the way in which efsa handled the studies cited today. my question to the commission is now: what concrete steps has the commission taken to initiate a reform of the european food safety authority? we are not discussing here in this house for the first time that we have doubts about their independence. and yes, mrs sommer, we wanted and we want an independent food safety authority! but it is also the right of democratically elected representatives to question this independence and to work towards the establishment of genuine independence. this is our very own task, because we also know the mood and attitude of our people in all the member states. commissioner kyprianou, we agree that the system of risk assessment by the efsa and risk management by the commission will be maintained. however, i believe that both the commission and the efsa must live up to their responsibilities. as you know, next week we are discussing in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety the question of how to deal with the individual authorization of genetically modified organisms in the context of the comitology and the regulatory procedure with control. such cases are not conducive to this discussion. i hope that in future concrete steps will be taken to demonstrate the independence of the food safety authority.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i congratulate you on your attempt to produce a more or less balanced report, which has been largely successful. the public debate on the issue of disengagement is centred on paragraph 2. the way this is put, i can accept it because it is probably - at least in theory - the best solution. but this should not be taken as a solution to all problems. there are many causes of the non-existent grid expansion that have nothing to do with unbundling, but with difficult procedures, with civil rights movements and other elements. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new energy policy, which is to be submitted to the council in the near future. i think that the points relating to the regulatory authority are particularly important. we need stronger national regulators working together on a european level; we need a harmonized framework so that a common energy policy can be pursued in this sector in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the security of supply must be guaranteed, especially for the socially vulnerable, who cannot keep up with the increase in energy prices, however much they may want to. this is the crucial factor: those who, despite social assistance and support, cannot pay, must still be supplied with energy.
mr president, commissioner piebalgs, and the rapporteur, mr vidal-quadras, are very much welcome. i would like to congratulate you on this report. the essential point of this report is what consumers, that is, citizens, gain from this new regulation. the question that the citizen will ask himself is: what is the cost of a kilowatt hour of hydropower between noon and 1 p.m.? when and at what price will it be delivered? we must not only consider the quantity of electricity, but also its quality. we have the right to decide what we want to produce our energy from in the future. of course, the timing of the event will also play an important role. transparency in pricing should be the first requirement of this new form of regulation. the second essential aspect is the distinction between the question of property and liberalisation. in principle, the form of ownership has nothing to do with liberalisation. these are two completely separate levels, and that's why you have to focus on keeping that separation in the future.
in writing. the commission is not in the face of global challenges such as climate change, import dependence and increasing energy consumption, we should all take responsibility and pursue an integrated european energy policy. the creation of a single european internal energy market is undoubtedly one of the top priorities for the near future. the commission's efforts to increase the coherence of european energy policy through the third energy liberalisation package and a new energy policy strategy for europe are therefore most welcome. this does not mean that we need to have a strict property dismantling in the transmission network. i believe that ownership unbundling is a measure that represents a massive intrusion into existing property rights. i am convinced that it will not be possible to solve the existing problems. the commission should be invited to develop alternative options to the ownership unbundling option, such as the independent network operators (iso) model or its regional variant, the regional independent operators (rio) model. however, it is important that the best pathway to a competitive integrated european internal energy market is chosen.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not cross-border crises whether caused by terrorism or disasters require union-wide protection of critical infrastructures. critical infrastructure cannot be concealed by omission. to believe that would be completely naive. psychologically, the destruction of critical infrastructure leads to a loss of public trust in the european union. crisis prevention is therefore not a purely national matter but requires as envisaged by the commission a european crisis management. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has also clearly pointed out that the movement of parts of european infrastructures outside the union increases the risk of terrorist attacks and that special access to data makes the entire infrastructure more vulnerable. this is also true of banking and insurance. although the safety situation and controls in these areas are constantly being improved, additional coordinated european action is needed. no one will want double standards. what we need is an extra security gain. this is what dg market must be guided by, not short-sighted wishes of the economy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. no one in this house disputes that good cooperation between member states is very important and necessary in the fight against terrorist threats. but what we are criticizing is the way in which this is to be done. more bureaucracy is not going to help us fight terrorism! i thank the rapporteur for at least bringing the proposal back to reality and for having greatly improved the commission's version. it has also made some very useful suggestions. we all agree that improved cooperation and information are positive. this can be done bilaterally or multilaterally. but to draw up a list of all the infrastructures at risk does not add any value to security, it can even be counterproductive! in the end, however, it is the member states who are responsible and it is not sensible to transfer responsibility to the european level. i hope that we will all show the same great restraint in the vote tomorrow as the rapporteur has shown, so that we can safeguard what we have now in the future: a sensible procedure which takes account of reality and does not foster illusions!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not unlike some of my colleagues, i knew that despite his opening statement, mr ferber was very willing to compromise and therefore a very good solution was found. mr ferber has described the situation: there are differences in europe. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the common agricultural policy. stopping that would have been impossible, probably not even worthwhile. the key point is that - and we were the first to agree on this in the committee on industry, research and energy - there is a universal service, that citizens, whether they live in a city or in a remote region, whether they are poor or rich, are guaranteed that the postal services or administrations provide the services they need. it is the responsibility of national governments to regulate this. that is why we have insisted - and i am very glad that the committee in charge has also taken up this - that we take the time to do this. not a huge amount of time - some countries could have already prepared - but enough time to discuss this with citizens, but also with companies and associations, etc., so that industry and citizens receive the appropriate services. the second key point is that there is also an employment problem. the liberalization, the opening up of the market, should not be based on the principle that the lower the pay and the worse the conditions, the better. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the postal services are not subject to unfair competition. this is also well established in the report. so i personally think that a good solution has been found here. the committee on industry has agreed to this and i assume that the vast majority of this parliament will agree to this proposal.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. competition has always been positive when it has taken place in a good environment. in the postal sector too, where possible. however, it is also fair to say that the last liberalisation has already led to deterioration for consumers, especially in rural areas. private is never automatically good, just as the state is never automatically good. it is about good, positive and fair conditions. the commission rightly stresses the importance of universal service, especially for rural areas. it is not possible that services should be concentrated in the cities only. the proposals for financing these services, which are expensive, are, however, for the most part unrealistic, tailored to the large member states only and unclear. the court will be busy. this is why a great many colleagues have asked for exceptions. so there is the lex greece: countries with many islands should liberalize later. there is the lex luxemburg: small countries with limited populations - an interesting choice of words - should continue to liberalize later, and so should the new member states. all phrases that are not comprehensible. but i appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen: postponing is not the answer! problems don't go away by being postponed! that is why i cannot agree to the solution of a mere postponement, and neither can the green group. first of all - and this is the crux of the whole dossier - the possibility of maintaining the reserved area is to be removed, which ultimately means that everything from profitable advertising to unprofitable private mail is subsidized. i don't want that to happen again. the commission, however, is generous in allowing state subsidies. i think that is the wrong way to go, i am more in favour of a user-oriented approach, because the compensation fund, which is also proposed, is feasible in large countries but not in small ones, where the market is not set up accordingly. the advertising, that's the gold mine! letters under 50 grams are the gold group that the private sector is waiting for. that's what they want! the christmas card to aunt mary up on the mountain doesn't interest the private sector. so what will be the outcome of this dossier if it is decided that way? overflowing mailboxes in the cities, advertising everywhere, in cities also a fairly good supply of private mail, but a gradual decline in services in the countryside. this is a necessary consequence of this, because the states are no longer able or willing to finance this in the long term. and how is the competition going to be? on the backs of the employees who work there, and on the backs of the rural population! the only way that the private sector has been able to achieve its good performance is by the deterioration of working conditions, and you should bear that in mind in this discussion. we are dealing here with social dumping, and that, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be able to prevent by any consideration.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the post office brings something for everyone. this advertising message from the austrian post also applies to the ferber report. the liberalization of the sector will be beneficial to all if it is well organised, if it ensures that the services are available to all, that letters are delivered regularly on the islands and not just in the conurbations, if it ensures that there are good and safe working conditions for workers and that universal services are financed even in areas which are not particularly lucrative. the ferber report, as it stands, gives good answers to all these questions, and this means that the postal services, their employees and, above all, their customers will benefit from reasonable arrangements. with this report, we are therefore making sure that europe is something for everyone!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner mccreevy has rightly pointed out that this is an important piece of european legislation. it also called on the council to take these proposals as a basis. the council is unfortunately not present on this important legislative matter. it may be a good idea to tell the portuguese that today is already the 10th of july and that they have held the presidency of the council since the 1st of july.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, we need to keep strengthening the financial market. the financial services action plan to 2004 has contributed to the development of an integrated and well-functioning european capital market, which is a world leader not least because of the quality and soundness of its regulation. but we are not finished yet, as this report alone shows. the rapporteur originally envisaged 43 articles. there were 217 amendments to this. together with the shadow rapporteurs - i apologize to karsten hoppenstedt - 35 compromises were worked out and there were 141 votes in committee. but we are drawing a line on this because we need a strengthened internal financial market. ceps, cesr, ceiops or lead supervisor are all terms that conceal the search for an ideal structure for european financial market supervision. the last crisis simulation to check the financial stability in the european union clearly showed that we still have significant deficits. better coordination between the relevant supervisory bodies involved is necessary to ensure sound management and thus financial stability in a crisis situation. a further simulation of this type is already planned for 2009. however, the main focus of supervision remains on the individual institutions and less on the group of institutions. we therefore need supervisory structures which continue to evolve. we need to coordinate national supervision more closely. we do not need a central vision, but the prevailing supervisory culture, which is characterised by common values and objectives, should be further developed.
i have to say, madam president, an integrated and well-functioning european capital market is an essential foundation of the european economy in the current world-wide pace of globalisation. the rapporteur is to be thanked for not only highlighting the economic success of the development of european capital markets but also for addressing the distribution and the resulting benefits and the risk potential. financial services products are good when they are in line with the will and benefit of our society. but that requires improved control. leaving the market to itself encourages market abuse. while hedge funds and private equities can provide increased liquidity and enhanced market diversification, the risk of systemic risks with disproportionately negative effects, such as those caused by asset management errors, poses a significant potential for crisis. for example, the business practices of hedge funds are changing very rapidly. even the financial market authority in london is increasingly finding that disclosure requirements are being circumvented. sophisticated market players are increasingly finding new ways to disguise their activities, according to the neue zürcher zeitung. the most sophisticated surprise tactics in corporate takeovers are the result. the workers who provide the sustainable added value of economies are increasingly becoming the plaything of purely capitalist interests. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fishery products, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a very important one. it is not the business sector alone that should decide what is good for it, but the political sector that must regulate and monitor what is of lasting benefit to the society of the european union.
in writing. kiev is far from being as clearly on a 'brussels track' as some believe. a clear departure from russia, as lukashenko seems to have been preparing for some time, would have consequences - not least in terms of oil and gas. the european union would also be affected by instability in this area. although we have reached the limits of our capacity to cope with the latest enlargement, it is still unclear whether we will respect the russian sphere of influence in the post-soviet space or continue blindly to follow the us quest for supremacy in eastern europe. despite the resulting zigzagging course and political tensions in ukraine, it is beneficial to deepen neighbourly relations with ukraine. the confidence-building measures in the form of visa facilitation must in any case ensure that the old scandal is fully resolved and that there is no further abuse.
in writing. the criticism of the european court of auditors that there was a 25% increase in translation costs between 2003 and 2005, which cannot be explained solely by the increase in the number of official languages from 11 to 21, should be examined in detail. in this context, it would be really worthwhile to consider in future the breakdown of translation costs by target language, so that needs, demands and translation performance can be better qualified. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. once all the data is available, it is likely that some sensible savings will be made. however, this revision must not be misused to classify even more important eu documents as 'working documents' or 'annexes' in order to bypass the binding obligation to translate the full text by the back door. in particular, the use of german should be strengthened, given its importance as the most widely spoken mother tongue and second most important foreign language in the eu.
in writing. if we keep creating new eu agencies to satisfy national sensitivities, and then some of them carry out the same tasks, we really need not be surprised when accusations of excessive bureaucracy, uncontrolled government madness and deliberate outsourcing are heard. the aim of citizenship is more than e-government and similar pr spectacles, it is necessary to avoid or reduce duplications. the existing savings potential should also be exploited. these include: reduction to one parliamentary seat, an expense accounting based on actual costs, top-level fraud prevention and actual recovery of unduly paid subsidies, and the potential savings of billions in enlargements against the will of our citizens. the eu must not follow the trend of increasing the number of migrants in the administration, which is emerging in some member states. this would cause lasting and irreparable damage to the aim of building a european identity.
i have to say, madam president, the objective of mrs hennis-plasschaert in the proposal for a directive is to be welcomed as positive, because it is simply that important infrastructures affecting several countries should be protected against terrorist activities. we need to identify and designate the infrastructure and safety plans. the commission proposal goes too far. he is violating the principle of solidarity. it mixes counter-terrorism and economic instruments, and the commission must ask itself whether a central register of critical infrastructures does not serve the terrorists and thus increase the risk. the european parliament has put forward constructive amendments, and thank god we have approved them by a large majority. i therefore recommend that the commission should revise these proposals. i gave my consent to the report.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report on the identification and designation of critical european infrastructures and the assessment of the need to improve their protection. damage or failure to an infrastructure facility in one member state can have a negative impact on several other member states and on the european economy as a whole. the protection of critical infrastructures is therefore essential for the internal security of the eu. i also support the proposal in the report that a list of priority sectors with critical european infrastructure should be drawn up on the basis of common criteria. however, member states should not be obliged to specifically notify the commission of their critical infrastructures, as this would be contrary to national security interests. the creation of horizontal legislation at eu level, which takes into account the complex processes and interfaces of critical infrastructures with a cross-border character, is a legitimate concern. at the same time, however, it should be recognised that the eu should support and not duplicate the work of the member states. i therefore support the proposal for a grassroots approach, since national bodies are the ones who know best what is happening in their own countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that the protasiewicz report cannot be seen as separate from the oral question and the motion for a resolution. i would like to thank both authors very much for their work. unfortunately, there are no uniform standards across europe for the posting of workers in the provision of services. it also shows that there is a clear need for improvement in the coordination of the communication and information flow between member states and competent authorities. the control measures in this area are also still inadequate. a balance between freedom of movement and provision of services on the one hand and protection at work on the other is essential. i believe that the most effective and simplest way of combating social dumping is to introduce legislation in this area. the cooperation between member states and the exchange of information must be strengthened and streamlined. the commission has also taken the necessary steps to ensure that the rules are applied. the commission's guidelines would certainly be helpful in this respect. in order to ensure the protection and rights of workers, i ask that the host countries carry out the appropriate checks and controls. therefore, the commission should actively support cooperation between the supervisory authorities of the member states by setting up a permanent platform for cross-border cooperation. i would also like to see the social partners more closely involved in all these matters, in the interests of employers and workers. only balance will bring us more employment and thus more prosperity and security for all the people of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say that i support this request of my colleague very strongly, because in countries where books are first banned and burned and then the people who write them are persecuted, the spirit that inspires and drives the european union is not there! i think that these people not only need special protection, but that the european union should be concerned that what they write can be disseminated, that it is disseminated to eliminate precisely these dictatorships from which they suffer. does the commission intend to support these people so that they are not only allowed to be here but that what they do is also encouraged?
we heard last week in your home country of malta about problems of coastal fishing in another part of the mediterranean. are there any specific possibilities, programmes and strategies to promote in particular coastal fishing and the protection of local fishermen?
commissioner, in your reply to mr posselt's question you mentioned a number of important policy areas. i would like to mention another issue: the situation on the black sea has led to the fact that we now have an important external border of the eu there too. this raises questions about legal as well as illegal border crossing. is there any possibility here of a visa policy, an immigration policy, but also of preventing illegal immigration?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a manner which is compatible with the environment. i believe that these directives, which were proposed by the commission and strongly supported by parliament, now finally need further consideration. do you see any chance that, with the liberalisation of the energy market, the conditions for final storage and decommissioning will also be subject to common standards?
commissioner, we have appointed coordinators for the various pipelines to look after these pipelines. do you think it would be a good solution for the druschba gang to appoint a coordinator?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's mid-term review rightly points to a number of successes of the common transport policy and, above all, to the increasingly better alignment of transport policy priorities with other policies, with the internal market on the one hand and environmental policy on the other. i would like to thank mr barrot for the explicit reference to the study on the internalisation of external costs. we are eagerly awaiting the results and further suggestions. the mid-term review must also face the fact that much of what was identified as necessary has failed or is in danger of failing because of the lack of funding and willingness to finance both by the union and, above all, by the member states. in this context, we need to give new impetus to the game at half-time. we need more money. we need smarter systems. we need more, better and new technologies, and above all we need better logistics. we also have new material tasks to tackle. it will be particularly important to integrate the new member states and the candidate countries into the now somewhat outdated system of transeuropean networks so that we can actually grow together. we have a lot of work to do in all aspects of security. urban transport policy requires courage and tact. the methodological approach is important. not everything that is feasible and conceivable needs to be incorporated into european law immediately. less binding legislation, more suggestions through best practice and respect for subsidiarity are perhaps the better option. the overall traffic will not be less, but rather more. some people see a vision of the future in the complete decoupling of transport growth from economic growth. we should be careful not to fall on our noses here. not all countries are in need of growth. amendment no 6 by the scandinavian members cannot be seen or used as a back door for the so-called gigalins. what may be good practice in scandinavia is not appropriate for the rest of europe. i thank the commission and in particular the rapporteur for her excellent report.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the homework is well written, the signals to africa and latin america are well placed. the question of the contractual implementation and implementation of the substance of the constitutional treaty and the decisions of the summit should be dealt with by your intergovernmental conference and not negotiated a new treaty. you have felt today that your problem will not be the european parliament, the commission or the citizens of europe. the only problem you can have is some vanity on the part of the heads of state or government and member states in the council. i therefore ask you to ensure that, as your presidency of the council, everyone does what they have decided, that everyone keeps what they have promised, that they pay what they have promised - frontex's motto - that they are accountable at home for what they have agreed at european level, that they implement concrete projects and comply with rules rather than demanding intelligent interpretations - france's motto. if you make sure that what is decided is done, you will achieve a new dynamism in the european union and have fewer problems.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the european council in brussels has given rise to a feeling of melancholy. maybe it's just the holidays coming up. in fact, if you look at the mandate for this intergovernmental conference, you are tempted to say that europe has got away with a black eye. i'm just afraid the blow is harder. it is not the eye of the states that is dimmed. it is a question of the right of the people to selfdetermination. the question is whether europe has only one blue eye or is blind in one eye. the european parliament has been a very important instrument in the development of the union. yes, it is true: the mandate safeguards the central achievements of the constitution. but the mandate obscures the true character of europe, it conceals europe, it obscures the idea of european integration. mr barón crespo, i do not think that what we have here is an exercise in political realism. we are dealing here with a very openly inflamed nationalism, a petty nationalism and a self-serving government. the citizens' union - is it really just a question of packaging, that it has disappeared and we are again facing a union of states? this is the demand of the people who said no in france and the netherlands. where are their demands for a social europe and for more democracy? is that not realistic? isn't that necessary? is that not the task of europe? how have we endeavoured to put this constitution into clear, understandable language, in an understandable document? for months, governments have had only one goal: to write a dark, encrypted, incomprehensible, illegible treaty that the citizens are not supposed to read! no, it's not a black eye, the opt-out from the bill of rights, it's the very core of our self-image as a community of values. it is intolerable that this union should call itself a community of values and at the same time allow a part of its citizens to be excluded from it! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to support this wholeheartedly. we must stop the vote now. it is not serious to vote on this, and on such long reports. in the event of an emergency, we must reduce the speaking time somewhat or keep it exactly the same so that we can start voting at 11.30 a.m.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to make the european parliament's opinion on the draft constitution more transparent, and to make it more transparent. but they are very clear-sighted when you try to convince them that it is a new work, although the substance is essentially the same and only the packaging has changed. while on the one hand we talk about a new work, on the other hand we declare that there is no need for new referendums. the opposite is true! this approach will certainly not bring the eu closer to its citizens, nor will the fact that more powers are being handed over to brussels, that a new opportunity to define our borders has been lost, and that the emergency brake has not been applied to the negotiations with turkey. we need a federalist europe in which the sovereign people can once again exercise their right to say what they want more fully. only then will we be on a path that really offers hope for the future, everything else is the daydream of a secretive eu elite, which is why i rejected the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that post-liberalisation is important. but just as importantly, we've postponed this whole thing by two years and now the postal market will only open in 2011. more competition is also the right approach in letter delivery. this will be beneficial for the economy and for consumers, but only if the conditions are right. there must be a guarantee of delivery of letters in the usual quality and at a normal price. this must also be possible in remote areas such as mountainous areas or islands. the whole package of liberalization must not be carried out on the backs of postal workers. that's why i voted for the package.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the joint compromise on the full opening of the eu postal markets by 1 january 2011. however, i must note that this is only the case, since otherwise, due to misguided legislation, liberalization would have been introduced in 2009 at the commission's request. it is important that the directive guarantees and ensures universal coverage. this means that all users have a minimum range of high-quality services at affordable prices. this so-called universal service must also ensure that 'a pick-up and delivery service is provided every working day, even in remote or sparsely populated areas'. if a service provider fails to comply with these obligations, member states must impose appropriate penalties. it should also be noted that the directive does not affect working and employment conditions such as maximum and minimum working hours, minimum annual leave with pay, minimum rates of pay, health, safety and hygiene at the workplace. the directive also does not affect the relationship between the two sides of industry (e.g. the right to negotiate and conclude collective agreements, the right to strike and the right to take industrial action). finally, i would like to say that i am voting against the extension of the deadline for the so-called 'new eu member states' by two years, because i believe that we live in a europe and not in a divided europe.
in writing. i am in favour of greater price transparency in air fares. until now, air fares have mostly been published without any indication of various cost factors. in future, passengers will receive information on the actual price of the flight and on all costs incurred, such as taxes, airport charges and booking costs, on the internet and in travel agencies at the time of booking. this is an important measure to counter the tendency for false offers and misleading price information to induce consumers to buy a supposedly cheap offer which, in retrospect, turns out to be significantly more expensive than advertised. as regards security charges, the consumer must be informed of their exact amount and application. security taxes and fees shall be transparent and may only be used to cover costs incurred at airports and during flights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur has put forward proposals in his report which combine greater flexibility with the greatest possible security, in the interests of both workers and employers. the commission is proposing this with the aim of ensuring employment for workers and the security of the site and the competitiveness of entrepreneurs. it is important to note that job security is no longer a job for life, but the ability to find work at any time. the necessary framework conditions must be created. this ranges from lifelong learning to the creation of positive conditions, such as reconciling family and work. the key to the successful implementation of these strategies is the functioning of the social partnership. this is fine at national level and it works, but at european level there is a certain need to catch up. the report as a whole is very positive, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the realization of the european union means the realization of economic cooperation, and this results in the free movement of workers, which is increasingly being realized. the posting of workers directive is the necessary tax instrument to prevent wage dumping on the one hand and distortions of competition on the other. the commission's review of the implementation of this directive has, however, revealed problems in the control of the directive in the member states. the directive is only good and correct if the necessary control instruments at member state level are actually working and if sanctions are provided for. if the commission's conclusion from this monitoring is to reduce or simplify controls, that would undoubtedly be the wrong way forward and should be rejected. i would rather call for the controls to ensure that national collective agreements and national wage systems are not undermined.
i have to say, madam president, i also welcome the three-leaf clover. the euro is a success story. the euro is the eu's most successful response to global challenges. the euro and the four freedoms are the most important cornerstones of a strong internal market. the maastricht criteria and the stability and growth pact are, in my view, the most successful guidelines for the european union's regulatory policy. the eurogroup has an absolute majority among eu member states as of 1 january 2008. we welcome this and we warmly welcome the states of malta and cyprus. i find it depressing that we are already happy that a head of state agrees to do his homework. doing homework is a matter of course. we must respect the rules, not interpret them in a protectionist way. we welcome the fact that there are economic gains and we demand that the economic gains be used to reduce deficits and public debt on the one hand and to share the gains with the employees on the other. we do not question the independence of the european central bank. it is a guarantee of the success of this euro-course. the independence of the ecb and the unified external representation of the eurozone are not, however, contradictory. the uniform external behaviour of the eurozone has nothing to do with the three gentlemen interfering together in exchange rates. the exchange rate is determined by the market and the interest rates are set by the european central bank. that's what i say to the left. we are all now praising the euro and data. but we have forgotten to interpret and present the euro as a benefit for the citizens of europe. let us make clear what the euro means for the stability of the eurozone and the single market. let us not forget that our present position is better than that of the dollar, and that is also an expression of success! when the euro was introduced, the citizens asked us to do this.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the situation in the middle east is causing many crocodile tears to be shed. you should have known it could easily come to this. of course, the self-destructive power of the palestinian political forces was not exactly foreseeable, but where was the support of israel for president abbas in recent years? when did we cry out loud because mr abbas was not supported? where was the visionary and independent strategy of the european union? and why, mr president of the council, madam commissioner, are we simply ignoring mr de soto's criticism of the quartet's policy? is it our guilty conscience? is it the realization that something has really gone wrong here? because, mr salafranca, we must admit that a number of things have gone wrong. i do not want to dwell on the past, because it is about the future. what's left to do? my group recently held a middle east conference under the chairmanship of pasqualina napoletano, and we have reached similar conclusions to those of the ten foreign ministers who recently published an article on the subject. i wish all the foreign ministers had done this together. we need active support for the abbas/fayad government, at least for now. but we should not give in to the illusion that such support would mean that the problems with hamas are solved or that the problems with hamas can be solved militarily by upgrading abbas's troops. that is what some people think! we will certainly not win the hearts and minds of hamas voters in this way. we also need israel's recognition of the 1967 borders at last - at least as a starting point for negotiations. granted, some of it will be postponed. we need a comprehensive discussion on all aspects, from refugee return to the wall. these are not easily solvable, but they must be discussed openly and honestly. and we also need to include the arab peace plan in order to achieve real peace between israel and its arab neighbours. the aim must be to prevent violence. but we should be fair. if we demand that one side renounce violence, we should demand that the other side do the same, and that has not been the case in recent months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have not seen such a policy. it may be that tony blair can now break free from some of the shackles - atlantic and other shackles - and play a different role. if so, we will welcome it. we wish him well for the sake of the region, but he must make a great effort to pursue a different policy from that of previous years.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the debate is not going as fast as some might wish. i see the danger that the commissioner has mentioned. but i also see an opportunity. it's a chance to take and not just look at it in a negative way. what do we want? we want to send a message to serbia through a stabilisation and association agreement and visa facilitation - if serbia cooperates with the icty - that it is welcome in the european union, and we want to put an end to this permanent self-deprecation and inferiority complex. secondly, we want to include kosovo in a new arrangement based on the ahtisaari plan. that doesn't mean that one or the other isn't changeable. but this requires talks and the willingness of the serbian and kosovar representatives to talk to each other. i don't think they'll agree, but at least they should clear what can be cleared. both sides should show responsibility, because they will have to live together in this region in the future, especially if they want to follow the european path. we cannot afford to risk the stability of the union. so it is not a question of postponing for the sake of postponing - and i agree with the commissioner on this point - but of making good use of the time. i am very pleased to hear the prime minister of kosovo say that he does not want to take any unilateral steps in the coming months. that is better than some of the things i hear in this house. i am also very pleased about the united states, if it is true that they will not support this either, because the main one would be the european union. we certainly call on russia to abandon its veto and its blockade. russia cannot win for abkhazia and transnistria anything that it has not already obtained by military force. now it's about creating a peaceful transition. it is also in the interests of kosovo and albania that serbia be included as closely as possible in the new arrangements and that serbia also receive clear european signals. albania and the albanians in kosovo could not wish for anything better.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, who in his report calls for the coordination of the legislative and statistical cycles, for reducing red tape for small and mediumsized enterprises, for ensuring the quality of data, i.e. improving it, and for including, in addition, a number of indicators in the social and macroeconomic fields. but at the same time he informed us that we had sent a request to the commission, and that request had two causes: one reason is the recurrent criticism of the incomplete statistical data provided by the member states. in one country, even the prime minister admitted that he had deliberately falsified the data and had not told the truth to the public and to the commission, namely that of hungary. the second background is that many of the demands have not been implemented to date. i would like to point out a few: the commission must be given the right to verify the data transmitted on the spot. there must be dialogue with the national banks, with the ministries of finance, economy and labour, with the economic research institutes, on the ground through the commission. we cannot depend on what is supplied to us. the data available to the commission must be compared with those of the european central bank. there are different data here, which have different significance, they should be compared. thirdly, there must be a joint final report between the european central bank, the commission and the member states, particularly on the budget, the stability and growth pact and the maastricht criteria, i.e. all the data relevant to the euro. we need a uniform, transparent data collection basis. we all know the statistics on unemployment, the statistics of the member state and the european union. depending on political needs, one is played out against the other. this creates insecurity, does not create transparency and only creates mistrust.
since the storming of the red mosque is complete, shouldn't we at least not use the past tense in the second part?
in writing. i am in favour of a revival of rail transport as the 'core' of eu transport policy. the report on the implementation of the 1st railway package has shown that it has not led to a sustainable revival of rail transport nor to a noticeable shift of freight from road to rail. however, rail transport must become the 'core' of eu transport policy because of the following aspects: increasing congestion, growing emissions, limited energy resources and increasing road casualties. i therefore call for the introduction of the 'eurovignette 2' directive by 2008, which will require a uniform toll on all roads in the eu for all lorries over 3.5 tonnes. in addition, the so-called external costs, i.e. the environmental costs incurred, must be taken into account. in this context, i would also like to refer to the highly lucrative swiss system of 'performance-based heavy duty vehicles'. this has enabled switzerland to achieve remarkable successes in shifting transport from road to rail, while costs to consumers have increased by only 0.5% due to the improved efficiency of road freight transport.
in writing. after six years of intensive work by the committee on transport and tourism, six years after the publication of the white paper on transport, i am in favour of the creation of transeuropean networks and the use of intelligent transport systems and technological innovation. i criticise that there is a great risk to european economic growth because of 'financial inactivity on infrastructure'. as eu funding for the tens remains limited, the true added value of the ten-t programme can only be achieved by building the entire network. i therefore call on the commission to come forward with proposals for the possible extension of new alternatives and innovative financing. in view of the negative environmental impact of transport, i would point out that it has been shown that even a modest shift in transport would significantly reduce congestion on the road. for this reason, i look forward to the commission's assessment of external environmental costs by 2008.
in writing. the barsi-pataky report does not really get us anywhere, which is why i abstained. it is a good thing to reiterate our commitment to the transeuropean transport network and to say that even small changes in traffic would reduce congestion on the roads considerably. but it should be borne in mind that many routes, especially in inner cities, are congested mainly because of unattractive public transport conditions. apart from empty promises, the eu has produced few intelligent solutions in this area. as regards the hotly debated gigaliner, it is not clear why the public should pay for any savings for transport operators in the form of higher road maintenance costs and increased safety risks. if we want to make environmental protection a priority, as is the case for the giant lorries, we must make a greater effort to promote environmentally friendly drive systems. the european parliament could set a good example here and take this into account, for example, in the case of the chauffeur service.
in writing. today's resolution is the fourth in a few months and shows the importance of parliamentary control over development cooperation funds. the european union must focus its development cooperation on achieving the millennium development goals. it is regrettable that many of the country strategy papers do not sufficiently address the issue of poverty reduction. the commission is to provide parliament with information showing the impact of the planned activities on poverty reduction.
in writing. the frequency, scale, complexity and impact of natural disasters have increased sharply across europe in recent years. the summer of 2007 was marked by particularly dramatic forest fires and severe flooding, with considerable material and environmental damage. these natural disasters have once again demonstrated that the available national resources are reaching the limits of their possibilities, both financially and technically. a functioning, efficient and fast-acting european civil protection is therefore urgently needed. i therefore call for an effective european involvement and i appeal to the commission to take action in this regard. everyone remembers the floods in central europe in 1999, 2001 and 2005. austria and its neighbouring countries were the hardest hit at the time. the eu disaster fund was created at that time. the time has come to make this fund as flexible as possible and to mobilise it immediately. the development of a crisis response mechanism will also enable a rapid response to major emergencies.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, the so-called sunshine directive may be about protection against uv rays, but anyone who denies the average citizen a minimum of common sense right from the start should not be surprised by allegations of regulatory insanity and bureaucratization, which are also reflected in the proliferation of eu agencies. citizens are undoubtedly smarter than the eu establishment assumes, and they also realise that alongside too much regulation, alongside the proverbial regulatory mania, there is also something like a deregulatory mania, namely when it comes to the rights and security of citizens themselves. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the member states and to provide information on the situation in the community. i think that's really not the way to do it. the citizens are of course also rightly angry at a constitution that was negotiated behind closed doors and has now been cosmetically altered, and at the lack of a say in the various eu enlargements. i think that actionism under the slogan of 'being closer to the people' cannot distract from the real problems. the commission has to learn to accept a 'no' from the citizens and to act in accordance with the will of the citizens in its decisions. the aim must be a federal europe of subsidiarity, a europe of democracy, the rule of law and transparency, with which the citizens can finally re-identify.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the single market is working if you think about overall economic growth. yes, the single market works, if i simply accept that we are dealing with the biggest redistribution of wealth in peacetime in the history of this continent since the single market was established in europe. no, the single market does not work when it comes to the acceptance of citizens. why would you do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the social democrats have been in the overwhelming majority in europe for so long, and fifteen years later we are finding out that these social democrats, who have done nothing to change this, are responsible for the growing radicalization on the political fringes of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are in favour of the removal of restrictions on the internal market in order to promote the positive effects associated with it, such as sustainable growth, while also paying due attention to the social protection of citizens. the services of general interest - our so-called basic services - cannot be left to the free play of the market because of their special importance, but need special rules of the game, especially in the health and social sectors. i regret that paragraph 16 unnecessarily refers specifically to nuclear energy. there is no doubt that this is a risky technology that puts the population at risk. i cannot therefore agree with the report on this point. it should also be noted that divergent national interpretations of eu law in the implementation of eu law cause citizens to be uncertain. this is a major obstacle to the completion of the internal market, as has been repeatedly pointed out in studies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the recent and much-discussed case of defective toys from china illustrates the importance of internationally recognised standards in dialogue with external trade partners. even if countries like china feel overwhelmed by the long list of quality standards, measures to improve product and food safety must be taken to protect the european consumer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have voted in favour of this resolution, but i would like to make one point. that is the point of the creation of a european protection force. we in the european parliament tend to demand a new institution or a new position every time certain events occur. it is necessary to clarify once again that the member states cannot and must not be relieved of their responsibility for responding to natural disasters, but it is, of course, primarily in the hands of the member states and in the competence of the member states to take precautions, to equip and train firefighters to the highest standards, and then to implement appropriate measures to combat them. it is only in exceptional cases, in the event of extreme disasters, that solidarity will be necessary, that is to say, the european union will be called upon to intervene in a supportive manner, but it must remain the responsibility of the member states as a matter of priority.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted in favour of the resolution on natural disasters because we have been shown once again that europe is not immune to these extreme situations and that europe needs the solidarity of the eu here. but one thing must be clear: coordination must be much better, and it cannot happen that eu member states also need help from third countries just because we are not in a position to help ourselves. the member states are called upon to develop better organised aid organisations themselves, especially in the voluntary sector, such as fire brigades with the best training and equipment. a major problem is the disposal of dead domestic and wild animals, which must be tackled as quickly as possible to stop the risk of disease and also reduce the environmental impact.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted in favour of this resolution, although i believe that the devastating forest fires must not lead to further inflation of the eu institutions. neither an eu civil protection agency nor an eu disaster response force are, in my view, capable of providing effective protection in the european union against natural disasters. it would only add to the red tape and cost. so we need to improve intergovernmental cooperation to be prepared for future natural disasters, and to keep firefighting, forests and so on at a level where natural disasters simply cannot happen at this scale anymore.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. for multimodal transport, which i hope will increase in the future, this is a very positive regulation because it will be more transparent and easier to read. finally, as the green group requested in a previous report, waterways are also included. it was incomprehensible to me that it took so long. the damage caused by a highly toxic chemical accident may be even more concentrated on a river than it might be on the high seas. the more stringent rules which member states can adopt, down to the regulation of means of transport, i consider necessary, important and right. there are very different conditions on our routes. we have high bridges where, for example, rescue workers have no access. we have high traffic densities where dangerous goods transport could potentially become even more dangerous. dangerous goods are often transported near towns. all of this means that we have to allow for this possibility in order to be able to respond flexibly to the threats. the central point of this report, however, as of many others, is control. the national states must systematically monitor compliance with these rules, otherwise we have a blank sheet of paper that represents a security that unfortunately does not exist. here in some countries in europe - i want to speak quite frankly - there are large deficits. this is also a major challenge for the training of fire and rescue services. i hope that this is also a call to tighten up these very controls and to finally minimise the dangers on transport routes - whether by water, rail or road.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would first like to take this opportunity to congratulate my good friend and current rapporteur, mr bogusław liberadzki, on this really balanced and successful report. as mrs sommer has already mentioned, 110 billion tonne-kilometres of dangerous goods are transported in the eu every year. i would like to see at least some of this stored in warehouses, as mr henin would. but unfortunately that is not the case, and that is why we have to deal with it. a first important point in this report is the update and summary of the existing rules on safety requirements for tanks and vehicles. the second important point is the extension of this requirement from road and rail to inland waterways. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the transport services provided by the railways. i agree with mrs lichtenberger that it is precisely when something happens in rivers that it is of course particularly dangerous. these measures - and i am speaking as a resident of a transit country - can also bring about a certain shift in the railways. that is, of course, a very positive thing. the report is of course welcome, particularly because austria, because of its geographical position, places very high demands on road users in terms of road safety. i also very much welcome the fact that it will be the case that each member state should continue to have the right to regulate or prohibit the internal transport of dangerous goods within its own territory. i believe that this includes in particular the special provisions for the protection of the environment and the possibility of prohibiting or restricting the transport of certain dangerous goods. if this report is adopted as proposed by the rapporteur, it will be a very good report and we can all be satisfied with the result.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. as a green person, i am naturally in favour of any improvement in logistics, because it can help to limit environmental damage. it must be pointed out in advance, however, that the european union has only the competence in a few areas to do anything about it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport of dangerous goods by rail is not affected by the lack of transport infrastructure. but even where there are many empty runs, it is clear that there is a logistical deficit or that it is simply not worthwhile to use the rolling stock efficiently and accurately. these are the main points, and they are also addressed in the dossier. however, it has also been used by a number of lobbyists. i must say that, from my point of view, improving infrastructure is not yet logistics, even on particularly good roads or railways empty wagons can run, and that does not help us in any area. i would particularly like to protest against the fact that this dossier has been used to make propaganda for the so-called gigalinists. we are already suffering from the fact that the rolling stock is very badly used. nevertheless, individual economic interests - especially those of the wood industry - have led to the introduction of particularly large lorries, at the expense of road users. because the repair intervals, as we all know, are shortened tremendously by the extra weight on the axles, the extra weight on the asphalt. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not affected by the current crisis.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not globalisation has brought us an increase in freight volumes for years, and this has been compounded by enlargement to the east and a misguided eu policy of aid. as a result, millions of goods vehicles are on the road every day, from cars to heavy goods vehicles, and the negative effects of congestion, noise, pollution and particulate matter are exploding. the concentration on road transport will undoubtedly exacerbate the existing problems in the conurbations and on the main transport routes. trucks are disproportionately involved in accidents, and strict eu-wide rest time regulations will do little to change this. the protection of public health is not taken seriously by brussels either, which is the only explanation for the lack of implementation of the alpine convention. it is true that the eu has addressed these problems for years, creating action plans and calling for the shift of transport to rail. but once again, she has failed to achieve anything here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the current transport policy, europe is currently focusing on more software in transport, i.e. smarter solutions to increase efficiency, but also in the interests of environmental and health protection. the reasons for this change of mind are not to be discussed here, not least because we do not have the money for major new infrastructures. it is particularly important that new hardware is not allowed through the back door on austrian and european roads. i'm talking about the 60-tonne or the gigaliners or whatever we call them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we are not equipped for heavy loads in austria. the significance of these bridges and their resilience has been demonstrated over and over again in recent months. we are not at all interested in creating new problems here. this is not in the interests of transport policy, and above all not in the interests of health and environmental policy. if we cannot provide additional european money for the external costs of the real infrastructure, then we should also leave the church in the village or, in the specific case, the gigaliner in northern finland.
i have to say, madam president, we all share a common concern in european transport policy: we want to increase the efficiency of all transport, especially air transport, without increasing the environmental impact. we even want to improve the environmental footprint of flying if possible. we in europe are doing a lot of thinking about this: emissions trading. with the possible taxation of aviation fuel and other things, we think we are achieving our objectives. it may not be the wrong way, but the right way is another. as in the case of road transport, we should be looking for smarter solutions. the idea of open european skies or single european skies is a good approach, but it must be implemented. sesar is an important step in this direction, but we must do more here. i would like to make one final point, because we are going to have a vote on it this week: congestion is not just in the sky, it is also on the ground and especially at airports. so let us get rid of the pointless, bureaucratic liquidity control rules at airports. it saves a lot of money and more trouble.
next year, the euro 2008 will be held in austria and switzerland. so the traffickers and those who want to trade in women are already prepared for this event. is the commission prepared?
the commission has already done so. it is an open secret that in some of the new eu member states, organised crime ringleaders have good relations with the highest political circles. to what extent and by what means does the union intend to support these eastern and south-eastern european countries, which themselves have immense financial and monetary problems, in order to combat this entanglement between politics and organised crime?
the commission has already done so. trafficking in human beings and human trafficking are important branches of the business of organised crime. we, the european union, have launched frontex with your initiative - a good idea with great problems in implementation: member states do not deliver, actions are interrupted in july and only resume in september. what will you do to make this frontex instrument operational and to provide the member states with the necessary support throughout the year so that we have an effective instrument in our hands to fight against smuggling organisations, as you would like?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my question relates to the late payment directive. we have many small and mediumsized enterprises, but also many researchers who are constantly complaining about the time it takes from the approval of a project to actual payment. many small and mediumsized enterprises are completely overwhelmed by the need for prefinancing. can you imagine the european commission also adjusting its payment conditions to the late payment directive, which applies to the whole of europe and was adopted by all of us?
commissioner, you have mentioned political crises. we have seen a lot of natural disasters this summer in greece, britain and elsewhere. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is not used as a bargaining chip. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. is there any way of increasing the overall financial volume, because this summer's figures show that the funds we have so far are certainly not sufficient?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our rapporteur and commissioner kyprianou have made it quite clear in their opening statements that the issue is not the demonization of the product alcohol, but the abuse of alcohol. the debate is not about offering alcohol to the public. that is also what the report says. i would just like to remind you of the regulation on health claims which we adopted in this house last year. it prohibits health claims on alcoholic beverages. the european parliament has also made a very good case for this. the resolution takes up the priorities of the commission's communication of last october on reducing the number of injuries and deaths caused by alcohol-related road accidents. the focus on alcohol abuse by young people and children is an important focus, but to pretend that only young people in the european union are affected by alcohol abuse and its negative consequences is a wrong strategy and we are lying to ourselves here. it is precisely because alcohol and the moderate consumption of alcohol are important parts of our european culture - and should remain so and not be criticised - that it is necessary to give special priority to the issue of raising awareness of alcohol consumption during pregnancy. alcohol consumption, even in small amounts, during pregnancy can have negative effects on the child. i think that the debate on whether or not to label will not be closed with tomorrow's vote, but commissioner kyprianou has indicated that we will be following very closely the experience in the member states here and then perhaps taking steps at european level.
the commission has already done so. i think alcohol was dangerous in the past, and alcohol is dangerous today. the commission also states in its paper, in point 5.4.1: moderate alcohol consumption appears to offer some protection against coronary heart disease in older people over 45 years of age. she writes it very well, and i think it's a fairy tale and on very weak scientific grounds that a little alcohol is healthy. alcohol is dangerous. it's a poison, and even small amounts attack health. of course, you have to set limits. we have learned in various european countries to deal with this drug alcohol. so the british, if you look at their consumption patterns, are what are called explosive drinkers. per capita consumption is relatively low, but still sometimes there are these excesses that lead to great damage. we in austria are so-called integrative drinkers. we have a relatively high per capita alcohol consumption, but fewer excesses. so there are very big national differences depending on the historical development of a country. the commission is addressing this problem in the right way. it says: we do not relieve the member states of their responsibilities. nevertheless, there are european tasks which we can tackle together. for example, we are trying to create a proper database. the statistics are very different. to think that there was less alcohol-related harm in the past is wrong. diagnoses were different then, and so was public awareness. that is why i think it is important that we in europe know what we are talking about. it is also important to address new phenomena in consumption patterns. for example, more and more young people are drinking at a very early age, and this is causing great harm. i would like to say that i think we are going too far in this area. if we think that we can solve a complex phenomenon like alcohol consumption with a simple label on a bottle, we are wrong. we would be evading our political responsibilities too easily.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to join in the thanks to the rapporteur, because i think the overwhelming support in the committee alone shows what a good job has been done here. the mini-milk package is an important step not only for european agriculture and the dairy sector but also for the promotion of milk in the diet. a balanced diet is particularly important for children, with milk and milk products playing a major role. providing our children with healthy foods, such as home-made dairy products, is crucial to healthy development. the promotion of milk and various milk products in all their variations, from yoghurts to the so-called soft drinks and light products which are particularly popular with children and schoolchildren, is therefore of particular importance. the promotion of milk and milk products is also important because it is becoming increasingly clear that unhealthy diets are also causing health problems for the european population. the advertising budget contained in the mini-milk package will increase public awareness and will subsequently benefit the general population. however, the funds saved by the reform must be guaranteed to remain in the milk sector. in conclusion, i would like to say that the increase in production prices for farmers is finally happening directly, but it is certainly not due to the fact that we are now producing bioenergy, but above all to the disasters we have had in the environment and the better markets in the eu and outside the eu, in other words in third countries.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not recent reports from denmark and frankfurt, germany, prove that the threat of islamist terrorism does exist to this day. but recent studies show that this threat is not from outside - al qaeda - but from young muslims living in the european union, who are vulnerable to radicalisation and who will eventually become terrorists. terrorists do not fall from the sky, but potential perpetrators emerge from our parallel islamic societies, in which schools of the koran and hate preachers play a large and ominous role. while the members of the indigenous peoples of europe, when they insist on their mainstream culture, are all too easily labelled as right-wing or even racist thanks to political correctness, the migrant is often unaware of this problem and the islamist parallel society that now exists across europe is often underestimated. terrorism often begins in schools. he continues in youth gangs and may then culminate in attacks after such radicalization. we must close the gaps in our society created by misguided tolerance, where terrorism can flourish. we must set limits and we certainly do not have to tolerate everything. if we change our traditional way of life and deny our own culture, we are providing the best breeding ground for terrorism. it is therefore high time that brussels too accepted the shattering of the multicultural vision and finally returned to supporting the indigenous population in europe instead of constantly discrediting them under the pretext of anti-racism.
the commission has already done so. terrorism is a crime against humanity and the greatest threat to our society, and it has unfortunately already reached a european dimension. the question is: has the european union taken any action? there is a clear yes here, and the successes show that they were good measures. thank god for the arrests in denmark and germany. i thank commissioner frattini for his commitment to this. it shows that the commission is on the right track. but we must now also check whether the measures are effective, which measures are effective and which new ones are needed. the question is also whether the overall strategy we have is sufficient. in any case, after the review we should continue to work on an overall strategy. but in any case, we need an overall strategy before we decide whether or not to have a new counterterrorism coordinator. we must also make it clear in advance through the member states that if there is to be such a coordinator again, he will also need the necessary skills, because otherwise we will certainly not need this function. in any case, however, i share the view of many here, we must strengthen and use europol and eurojust. they're successful, they have the tools. we have taken decisions, as we did yesterday, on the implementing rules, that working files should be used without complication for analytical purposes, and that a file on explosives should be set up. the problem is the supply of data by the member states. my appeal to you as president of the council is to put pressure on the member states to ensure that the data are delivered on time. mr president-in-office, you said that there were regular talks with the united states. this is a positive and sensible thing to do, but please use all the opportunities to make cooperation fruitful in the interests of both parties. that is, please also negotiate that the moment there is a suspicion of terrorism, the united states commits ... (the president withdraws the speaker from the floor.)
in writing. the catastrophic truck fire in the gotthard tunnel and similar incidents will certainly not be the last horror stories about truck accidents, given the continuing increase in freight traffic. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the danger potential is also increased by poorly constructed roads and by column formation. the consequences of an accident involving a dangerous goods carrier are of course all the more serious. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the member states and to provide information on the situation in the community. it is only right and proper to update the safety requirements, which is why i voted in favour of the report, but the controls must also be tightened accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the jeggle reports because i hope that they will make it easier for our farmers to survive. there was a time when farmers could live very well off their produce. today, food prices are rising steadily, and while big business profits from this and reaps huge margins, the common farmer is increasingly forced into the role of a beggar. the small farmers' holdings are often maintained by means of a secondary activity, and the love of nature is the only reason why many take on this double burden. but more and more are throwing in the towel, which has already led to import dependence in the fruit, vegetable and feed production sectors. since joining the eu, more than 50% of austrian farmers have given up, i.e. stopped producing milk. we are therefore rapidly approaching the point where our self-sufficiency in fresh milk and fresh milk products is threatened.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this resolution because i believe that after a certain period of time we must review and evaluate whether this measure is really useful and whether it is really effective. if it is not effective, we will abolish it; if it is partially effective and useful, then useful modifications will be necessary. in any case, however, we must work towards standardization in implementation, i.e. uniformity in controls, so that the annoyance we are currently experiencing at airports is finally eliminated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that was clear enough to the commission! it is already foreseeable that the us mortgage crisis will have a noticeable negative effect on us. the volume of outstanding mortgage loans is already greater than the us national debt. speculation on future increases in property values and low mortgage interest rates also proved to be a clear bubble. now, recession fears are being voiced more and more in the united states. after all, eight out of ten recessions started with a housing crisis. today, it is clear that the crisis was predictable, but also that the rating agencies did not fulfil the watchdog role assigned to them. high-risk forms of capital can cause the greatest damage to the economy and to all of us and therefore must not be left to themselves or to speculation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. the commission is now required to submit proposals to this effect.
mr president of the council! i'll be a little more specific. frontex is excellent in its idea but bad in its implementation. one reason is that the member states do not deliver the staff and equipment they promised. mr frattini has stated that only 10% of the goods were delivered. i would like to know from you - and i ask you to inform parliament - which member states have actually delivered the amount of personnel and technical equipment that has been promised and which have not, and what action you are planning as president of the council to ensure that all the member states finally deliver what they have promised, so that frontex can operate all year round.
i would like to know whether there is any thought of including small and mediumsized enterprises, which are a major contributor to employment in europe, in this area and how, in particular here - and this has been seen in america - women's employment is an additional measure to the lisbon agenda. the council has taken steps to ensure that the labour force is integrated accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the military dictatorship in burma is regularly on the european parliament's agenda because of its serious and most serious human rights violations. we regret, as all the previous speakers have done, the repression of the peaceful demonstrations against the massive increase in fuel prices. this 500% increase in fuel prices led to a doubling of transport costs and huge price increases for essential goods and services, all against a backdrop of a catastrophic social situation in the country. 90% of the population live below the poverty line on less than a dollar a day, and one in three children under five is severely malnourished. we deplore the violent attacks on civilians, the particularly brutal attacks on women and the imprisonment of over 100 people and call for their immediate and unconditional release, including the leaders of the generation of '88. i would like to stress that we are also increasing pressure on china, india and russia to use their influence on the burmese regime and to stop the arms deliveries in order to achieve substantial improvements here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll make this quick. the fact that several reports have been grouped together and that saryusz-wolski's report has been moved from monday to tuesday leaves very little time for a debate on tuesday evening. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. that's the only reason.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have of course discussed this matter at length in our own group. we thought that at the moment, when the demonstrations are taking place on the ground, it might not be convenient that we, in a way - i say this very silly now - add our mustard and say our opinion on it. our position is quite clear in this context. but if it is the wish of the house and if it is made clear that we are of course on the side of the demonstrators, as we have said time and again, then we could agree to the compromise that we are in favour of a debate - as has also been proposed - but not to write a resolution now, which does not exclude that the next time we are clear about how things are, we will also adopt a resolution. i would at least ask you, mr president, if you could vote separately on the debate and the resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are trying to postpone this and are asking for a postponement for the following reasons: it should be possible to reach an agreement with the council at the first reading. but if we had the debate on 10 october, we might be able to eliminate that possibility. we should therefore anticipate this shift. i think that is also the intention of the rapporteur.
mr president, commissioner piebalgs, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the kyoto targets are being discussed in washington at the moment, and i believe that the un has the right to deal with these global targets and to set targets here in a top-down strategy and also to develop the necessary instruments. it is important for us to focus on the bottom-up strategy, the lisbon agenda, and we should see that jobs and growth are achieved primarily through energy efficiency targets. here we have new targets for the craft. with insulation, with many other energy-enhancing measures, we can create a real economic boost and a win-win situation. i believe that putting renewable energy at the centre of the agenda is also an important approach to security of supply. energy that grows in our latitudes is always available to us. we should ensure that the 20% share of renewable energy in final energy consumption is actually reached by 2020. what we need are eu-wide criteria for support measures, for incentives, for subsidies, for taxation, for the whole financial framework that needs to be designed here. this is a challenge, and i think commissioner kovács should be involved. the second is: we need transparent and equitable access to the networks. we need the 'must carry' principle and we should consider whether we could consider penalties for non-transport. we need harmonised planning procedures with a one-stop mechanism where within a certain time - within three years at most - approval procedures can be carried out so that energy generation is available at the right time. and we need the right of the consumer to order 100 percent renewable energy from their supplier and have a secure energy supply for decades to come. nuclear energy is not renewable energy and therefore i would ask that it be dealt with in a separate report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. energy supply is a growing challenge, not just in the european union but worldwide. the use of renewable energy sources is of key importance both for ensuring future security of supply and for making a decisive contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. innovation must be supported and encouraged. there is also a need to increase investment in research and development of new technologies, whether in the transport sector, for example in research into new fuel sources or the construction of new engines, or in the thermal or energy use of resources, such as heating, electricity generation, insulation and many others. a good example is the combined heat and power production from biomass by combined heat and power, which is also increasingly used in austria. the main point is the energy saving aspect. regional, decentralised approaches are particularly important. the opportunity of decentralised production of energy and biofuels from renewable materials must be exploited, because this also allows for sustainable energy production and the use of raw materials that are available locally. the use of agricultural products for energy production certainly does not come at the expense of an adequate food supply, since there is sufficient production area and it can be used in sufficient quantities. the suspension of the setaside for the coming 2008 marketing year is therefore to be welcomed. in addition, the use of renewable raw materials can also make a significant contribution to the economic development of rural areas, having a positive impact not only on land use in a normal crop rotation but also, and above all, on employment and job creation in rural areas.
in writing. renewable energy must play a significant role in our future energy policy. nuclear energy must not play a role in this scenario, as there are still unresolved safety issues. renewable energy is our future. this requires innovation and the development of new technologies. much more investment in research is needed to bring innovative solutions to the market in all areas. the european council agreed in march to meet 20% of the eu's total energy needs from renewable sources by 2020. the heads of state or government have thus taken an important step and have made a clear commitment to increase the promotion of renewable energies. i therefore call on the commission to come forward with a forward-looking proposal for a regulatory framework for renewable energy. appropriate instruments at european level are essential to achieve the council's objectives quickly and efficiently.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. many of us probably know the story of the captain of köpenick, and many of us have also laughed at what happened there. but it wasn't, and it's not, that funny. just because a man wears a uniform, he must, he should, he may not have power or claim it. it is not so long ago that rail passengers in europe, in our member states, came across many small köpenicks. the driver was a civil servant, the customer was not a citizen. the european community law has brought a lot of fresh air into these quasi-state structures, and a lot has changed in a surprisingly short time. monopolies and quasi-monopolies are slowly and increasingly becoming service enterprises subject to competition to a greater or lesser extent. passengers have rights. i would like to refer to this subject. the european parliament has set itself very high targets in the sterckx report. our main objective was to ensure that passenger rights were guaranteed to all passengers in the same or similar way, irrespective of the train they were on, and in particular not only for cross-border travel. the idea that there should be first and last class people on the same train was unacceptable to parliament. the compromise reached with difficulty through mediation has not achieved this objective one hundred percent, but it has almost achieved it. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of passengers, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the most important achievements are clear, especially when compared with the rights of air passengers, which are also important to us: fines, money for delays, better access for disabled people, wheelchairs, people accompanying passengers and better information. this will continue to be a vital task in the future, so that passengers can assert their rights even when uniformed personnel are unwilling or distant. a final word to avoid any misunderstanding: the new regulation does not yet apply in full to local transport urban, suburban and regional transport . we must introduce special rules for local public transport so that customers are treated like royalty and not like subjects.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when you hear about toxic substances in baby dolls, children's clothes and toys, or even about batteries that catch fire, it's clear that our control system is not responding properly. almost all european manufacturers have at least part of their products produced in china or other low-cost countries, where they use low-quality materials to make a profit despite rising raw material prices and wages. of course, it is the importers' responsibility to ensure that the legal requirements are met, and so it is their standards and controls that are important. we have a dangerous mentality problem, however, when the responsibility is blatantly shifted to the producers, and the producers prefer to pay fines rather than initiate recalls. i believe that the eu has a role to play here, for example by significantly increasing the fines if information is not passed on promptly and if products are not recalled. in addition, i believe that ce marking must be more than a mere voluntary commitment by industry.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner verheugen said that the issue we are dealing with today is primarily a problem of non-compliance with existing laws. that's partly true. we must not fail to send a clear message to the member states as the european parliament that we cannot always demand strict european legislation and then not have enough money in our hands to guarantee its implementation. but it was also said that we should have the strictest standards in the toy sector. the long-standing toy directive is being revised. i hope that when this toy directive is revised, we will have a clear position that the strictest standards will be set and that carcinogens, herbicides and substances that affect reproduction will be banned. i would ask the european parliament today to take this position in our resolution. it is not only in this debate on toys, but in many discussions at home with our citizens that the ce mark is misleading. i have heard that it is expected to have either a designation of origin or at least a certain quality. i think that in the context of the revision we should think about how we can reduce the misleading of our citizens. i'll say right away that i don't fully understand voluntary security labelling either. we need to do better in europe and the european union in terms of compliance, but there is no point in creating a special badge as a reward for complying with longstanding laws. i am very sceptical about this, and i think it is more important to focus on monitoring the implementation of the strict regulations.
in writing. the statistics prove what we all know, namely that a good education promises higher incomes and protection against unemployment. in this sense, it is irresponsible for the eu to constantly let in a mass of uneducated migrants who are then condemned to unemployment, to shift to undeclared work, putting even more pressure on the low-wage sector, to become criminals or to burden the welfare state. and if we really lack skilled workers, then we need to train our own people accordingly, instead of luring cheap replacements from abroad with green or blue cards, which lowers the wage level. in this sense, it is important to have statistical data to be able to react to the wrong developments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i abstained on the jarzembowski report because in recent years in europe, the main developments have been in the development of high-speed lines between the cities and the most punitive neglect of short-distance routes, even though 90% of journeys are on short-distance routes. on the one hand, brussels is asking the population to be more mobile, to move traffic from the road to the railway, but on the other hand, it is trying to bring about the exact opposite development by the magic formula of privatization. the eu must ensure that common standards and systems facilitate cross-border rail transport and promote important projects within the transport artery. but it must finally understand that private investors do not have the welfare of the country and the population in mind, but ultimately only their profits and their return!
in writing. i am voting for the liberalization of international transport from 2010. the eu commission is to assess the impact of the directive no later than two years after the law enters into force, and after that a discussion on further opening will take place. this allows for limited competition and does not endanger national suppliers. i am relieved that the european parliament has spoken out against the automatic liberalisation of national rail transport in 2017.
in writing. i am in favour of a uniform driving licence for train drivers. the harmonization of train drivers' training will also improve safety on the railway lines in the future. the conditions for being a train driver in international railway transport now include a minimum age of 20 years and a sufficient education and language training. the unification of training is essential for a european railway area. the driving licence issued in one member state will in future be recognised by all the other member states.
in writing. i am voting for a new passenger rights regulation from 2009. the regulation covers, inter alia, compensation for long delays, the liability of undertakings for passengers and their luggage, the carriage of disabled persons and the information to be provided by railway undertakings. in concrete terms, this means that in the event of a delay in crossborder traffic of between 60 and 119 minutes, the customer will be entitled to a refund of 25% of the fare. if the delay is more than two hours, it's 50 percent. this will lead to greater legal rights, but also to greater safety for railway customers. it is now up to the member states to extend this scheme to national transport as soon as possible and not after 15 years.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new treaty on european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for too long, the focus on expensive nuclear power has prevented the development of other energy technologies. the budget for nuclear research is still seven to eight times that for renewable energy and energy efficiency. if the eu is really serious about its renewable energy roadmap, it must ensure that funding is distributed more equitably, but there is no mention of this in the report on which this vote is based.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, some of the things you have mentioned are actually very pleasing to me. they have stressed the need to strengthen public transport, improve road safety, and take environmental aspects into account in road safety training and satellite navigation. all of this is fraught with problems: it costs a lot of money! mr cramer has already shown a solution. i would like to point out a second one that has not yet been mentioned. we have the miracle cure. we are faced with the internalisation of external costs. as you hear, this model of calculation is complete, and with a large internalization of external costs, things in the urban transport sector could be subsidized and paid for that otherwise cannot be paid for. two questions to ask: when can we really expect to see a first model so that it can be expanded and enlarged later? can you imagine using that money for projects like this?
i would like to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that the commission's proposal is not a proposal for a directive. if they were there more often, they would notice that we are now entering a european cup season, in which we are playing teams against each other, often with only one member of the national squad left at all. we have totally neglected the care of the young and we are giving the whole thing an exclusively economic dimension. football is more than a single market, and football is not just competition in the legal sense, but football is sporting competition between national, regional and local teams. we have to do something fast. can the commission promise that something will actually happen beyond the studies?
i'm not going to tell you. what has just been mentioned is a problem. a second problem seems to be that the increased use of biofuels is causing the price of basic foodstuffs to rise in countries where this can really become a problem, and that many people, especially in these countries, are having difficulty in continuing to pay for their basic foodstuffs. are you aware of this problem? if so, what do you think about it and what will be done?
i understand that in these negotiations you have to negotiate quotas and so on. but what i always fail to do is to negotiate or to spread what europe is, to spread our model of life. the commissioner, i think, is asking whether you will go into these negotiations and say: we do not want products made by children! we do not want products made by forced labour or slave-like conditions! we do not want products that are not produced in accordance with core labour standards! is that the issue, and you're making that the issue?
the commissioner, genetically modified food products are making many people in europe think, worry and fear. is this issue still relevant or will it play a greater role in the doha round?
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the council has cut the research budget for 2008. how do you prepare for the health check, the mid-term review of the financial outlook? do you think we can put forward new initiatives and proposals here which reflect the importance of research in the european budget?
i'm not going to tell you. where will the emphasis be placed in the field of nanotechnology in the seventh framework programme? here, particularly in the area of 'healthy long life', the population has very high expectations. do you see a whole new way of living a long, healthy life in the medical field?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make a point of order. i have spoken to mrs madeira and of course i have listened to the commissioner's replies. we have been asking our questions for about three years and have not been able to get a single question answered orally. of course, the written reply is also very detailed and correct. but in the oral one, it's easier to ask and to ask questions, and that's why the result is a little more interesting. do you have any advice or guidance on how this might work in the future?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by congratulating mr paasilinna on his hard work. it is indeed a very difficult birth - not only for the report in this parliament, but also for the institution as such. it is indeed sad that the eti has to start such an important work with such a lack of enthusiasm - especially on the part of some council members, perhaps also on the part of the commission. i agree with the commissioner on the main points, particularly as regards the kics. we need a limited number of people, as suggested by mr paasilinna, whom i congratulate on his work, in order to gain pilot experience. that's absolutely right. i hope the experience is positive. i agree with you on the financing. it was very frivolous of some members of the council to say: you want to do something new, fine, but new funding will not do anything. just take whatever money you have in the household. it's not serious when something new has to be created. the use of research funds for the purposes of the content is quite acceptable, but it is absolutely right, as with galileo, to look for a new source of funding for this project, partly from budgetary funds that have been left over, from expenditure that has not been made, or even with a new commitment on the part of the individual member states. an important point - and this was also made by mr paasilinna - is that the eit and the kics are an additional contribution to our efforts to retain or regain excellence in europe. we know from a lot of research that people don't leave partly because of finances, but because of opportunity. if we can create new opportunities through these institutions for top people to stay in europe or to return from america or other countries, then we have made a significant contribution to bringing europe back into contact with the top technologies.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr saryusz-wolski, for the opportunity to work well with him and to reach a compromise. one of these compromises has just been mentioned and concerns the commissioner for energy. i know that this is a difficult field, not without controversy, and the commissioner will have a lot of work to do on it. if this happens, it will of course involve not only the foreign policy-makers but also the energy policy-makers of the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy situation in the community. that does not mean that we want to go against those countries from which we get oil or natural gas, but we want to tap other sources. russia is also trying to gain access to sources in order to supply europe with oil or natural gas. it is our right to try to find such an access. the question of reciprocity is also an important aspect in relations with russia. our group is not concerned with a policy against russia, but with a policy of equality. if russia opens its markets, we will do the same. but we can't be asked to open everything and russia closes. it doesn't make sense to us. the last point i would like to mention is a very difficult chapter which is also included in the motion, namely the relationship between energy policy and human rights policy. when i was recently in azerbaijan with colleagues, we discussed this. unfortunately, most of our sources come from countries where human rights are not a top priority. we cannot say that we will no longer be getting energy from these countries. but it has to lead us to do both, if we want to remain credible, to do energy policy, but also human rights policy and to promote the human rights situation in these countries. we cannot say that we are getting energy and are not interested in anything else. we need to deliver a parallel strategy. it's the only thing that makes any sense.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. president pöttering asked us yesterday to be on time for the vote. many of us have tried, but the elevators in this building are not able to bring the colleagues from the higher floors down in time. maybe we could change it or ring the bell earlier.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the abolition of set-aside is absolutely the right course to take. the demand for food, feed and renewable raw materials is constantly increasing, and it is therefore imperative to have these areas in production. for the farmers, the set-aside was a measure they never wanted, but had to do anyway because it was necessary. farmers want to produce! i hope that this suspension will not be for one or two years, but for all. this is also an opportunity for agriculture to contribute to the eu's major targets for reducing co2 emissions.
in writing. today's resolution underlines the need and urgency of revising the toy directive. cwr substances i.e. carcinogens, mutagenic substances and substances affecting reproduction must be banned in the new toy directive. commissioner verheugen agreed with this request in yesterday's debate. it will also be necessary to put an end to the misleading use of the ce marking. european consumers associate this sign with either a statement on the origin of the product or a safety seal. both of these do not meet the ce marking.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have agreed to the report because it has been made clear in parliament that it remains the responsibility of the member states to decide which and how many migrant workers are to be admitted to their territory. if the bluecard does come, it must be ensured that it is a control instrument for highly skilled workers legally residing in the eu and that it does not allow residence establishment throughout the european union. i am writing to commissioner frattini, who is sadly no longer here, from the european people's party, to propose that the blue card be given a national additional designation, such as the flag, so that it is clearly visible which member state has issued the work and residence permit.
in writing. the fact that some 18.5 million third-country nationals live in the eu shows us clearly that europe needs a uniform immigration policy. we must address our citizens' concerns and fears about immigration and convey to them that regulated and meaningful immigration is absolutely necessary in certain areas of europe. i do not share the apparent conviction, expressed especially by the conservatives, that the question of demographic change must be linked to the question of maintaining the european social model. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report because the european parliament has adopted a comprehensive approach to combating smuggling and illegal immigration. we, the european parliament, have made it clear that 'illegal' also means 'not legal' and that we must punish it accordingly. i think it is particularly necessary to clarify that we have reached the conclusion that there will be no quota distribution of illegal immigrants to all member states and that mass legalisations, as has happened in recent years, are no longer acceptable. this is to ensure that there is no drag effect and indirectly to combat trafficking.
in writing. despite millions of dollars in aid, countries of origin are not willing to cooperate. but taking back illegal immigrants must finally become a duty! but the eu is also grossly negligent in not providing sufficient resources to secure the external borders and in holding illegals in detention centres until they are returned to prevent them from going into hiding. not to mention a border patrol agency taking a break during the main migration season! in addition, brussels has overlooked the potential danger of islamic immigrants. if the eu does not wake up soon, put a stop to the influx of radical muslims and impose a citizenship and immigration ban on citizens of islamic countries, we will not only have to live in constant fear of terrorist attacks, but soon be strangers in our own country. the present report does not deal with these problems sufficiently, and i regret to say that, despite the good points it contains, i must reject it.
the commission has already done so. for the information of mr pflüger and the others, the task of the eu force is a humanitarian mission to provide security for refugees from chad and darfur, including military forces. the un security council has agreed to the deployment of a european un force, and the consequence is that the european union is now under international observation, which is what it is capable of doing in terms of foreign policy and military action. this operation represents both a risk and an opportunity: a risk because of the extremely difficult political environment in this conflict-ridden region and, on the other hand, an opportunity to show that the european union has developed foreign and military capabilities and can actually intervene in this region to protect refugees. but at the moment - and this view is shared by many - the risk is greater than the opportunity. the european parliament has therefore drawn up a catalogue of conditions, which have already been set out: from the time limitation of the mandate, to precise definitions of objectives and tasks, to the perfect preparation and technical equipment of eufor troops and the issuing of an operational mandate, including a withdrawal strategy. of course, one must expect that this effort will not only be approved by local governments, but also supported by them, if it is to be successful. but if - and here i think we are in agreement - all these conditions set by the european parliament are met, the chance of success is greater than the risk, and we can support the effort.
as the secretary of state knows, potential eu membership is a major driver of economic and political reform for all the balkan states. the negotiations with croatia are very intense. can the council give an overview of the actual state of play of the negotiations with croatia and, in particular, of the implementation and functioning of the association agreements with the other countries?
we have voted on the eit here in the european parliament today and we are in fact in agreement that it must be given absolute priority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you think the eit will also play a role in the mid-term review and the health check?
i would like to ask the presidency how it is dealing with the phenomenon of climate change in relation to fishing quotas. we all know that climate change is currently being buffered by the ocean's strong heat absorption. 80% of the energy is still being stored here. but it is also expected that the marine environment will also be massively warmed in the future. how does the presidency ensure that this new scientific knowledge is taken into account and that the aquatic environment is taken into account when setting fishing quotas?
economic stability in afghanistan is the essential precondition for democracy and peace to function there. in the european union, we have the oslo agenda for training for small and medium-sized enterprises, for starting businesses, and also to improve attitudes towards entrepreneurship and to promote exports and imports. can you imagine this oslo agenda being implemented there?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. 2010 is tomorrow! if the title of this report is 'i2010: towards a european digital library', then that means that we have a lot of work to do, which i think we have put off for a long time. i am glad that mrs descamps has produced a very good report which is a guide to what can and could be done. but we must all work hard to get it started. the report is a challenge and a response to the new technologies, the new ways of handling knowledge and information, and above all to young people's access to learning, information and access to knowledge. we're in a lot of trouble here, and we really need to talk. we need not only to preserve and safeguard cultural heritage, but we also have new things to take in and absorb every day, because what was invented and written down yesterday is already cultural heritage tomorrow. that means we have a lot to catch up on. but we must also always look ahead to keep up with the pace. it will be very important to coordinate and to call on the countries to put aside national sensitivities, as has just been mentioned, and to set out together on a european path towards safeguarding cultural diversity. there are obstacles to overcome. one is the financial shortfall we have. the commissioner has rightly put it. all the ministers and presidents are very big on sunday speeches and proud of cultural diversity. but then, when it comes to funding and implementation, they very quickly back off and forget much of the pride they have spread. it is also very important to me that we protect the copyright and that there is an agreement here with the authors and the publishers and all those involved, and that for a reasonable fee you can also put the information online and retrieve it. i think we have to consider a few things here. it is not easy, but the proposals are on the table and the countries could draw a lot from this. i am convinced that we will vote in favour of this report tomorrow. i believe that we must use the new technologies and promote this project to enable free access not only for us europeans, but to take our culture far beyond that to the whole world.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the question is, why do we talk about equality or inequality when more women have college degrees than men? we have the same opportunities, we take advantage of them, but what comes after that is not equal opportunities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that women are not excluded from the labour market. it is therefore also necessary that we take into account women who, for example, are already mothers while they are studying, that we require special flexibility here, that we support and promote women in remote rural areas and women from particularly vulnerable groups such as migrants or members of ethnic minorities, because there are great disparities and inequalities here. this must start in pre-school and school age and continue until vocational training. i shall be able to tell you all the rest after a short break.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the right to education, that is to say the right of access to education, is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, but it is not yet realised and is flawed. significant differences in performance between education systems within the european union also lead to differences in economic and social development. education systems must be efficient, equitable and above all free for all. efficiency must be promoted and emphasised in pre-school, school and also in the vocational education system. it is very important that universities also become accustomed to a certain flexibility in order to be able to react quickly to economic and social changes, because only in this way can a competitive advantage be created. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area. but it cannot be that we are educating only to have well-qualified people for the economy. education is a personal enrichment and a prerequisite for living in a social context. it means an increase in personality and personal worth. this is at least as important as vocational and economic training. we must work to ensure that teachers, like all trainers, receive a quality education and, above all, have opportunities for advancement and change, because here too, we are on the same track for decades. it can't be! it would be too easy to say that education policy should be a matter for the member states alone. that's only partly true. a european education area with a common objective of pursuing the lisbon objective also needs a common approach to achieve efficiency and equality.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the commission naturally welcomes the report and the motion for a resolution on equality between women and men in the european union. the adoption of the report underlines parliament's commitment to the issue of equality between women and men. i thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs kauppi, for the support expressed in this document for the approach and actions of the european commission to promote equality between women and men. equality between men and women is, above all, a founding value of the european union. it is also an area where europe has led the way and often preceded social developments. in recent years, important and ambitious initiatives have been launched. the adoption of the roadmap for equality between women and men has highlighted the commission's full commitment to make every effort to make strong progress towards effective equality between women and men in all areas. the commission welcomes the emphasis in parliament's motion for a resolution on a number of themes which are among the priority action areas of the road map, including equal economic independence between women and men, reconciliation of work and private life, balanced representation in decision-making positions and the fight against stereotypes. while there has been undoubted progress in the area of equality between women and men, there are still significant challenges. the commission shares the rapporteur's view that it is essential to continue our efforts and consolidate our gains. in this respect, the commission is aware of the importance of the proper application of the acquis communautaire and is exercising its role as guardian of the treaties with determination. the commission does not hesitate to initiate infringement proceedings when it finds that a european directive is not transposed correctly. at present, several infringement procedures are open, at different stages, in the field of equality between men and women. in order to improve compliance with community legislation, the commission has set up a network of bodies responsible for promoting equal treatment between men and women at national level. it's the network of the equality bodies. the commission is of the opinion that the pooling of experience of the various national bodies and the enhanced cooperation with the commission will enable the equality bodies to play their role better: to promote equal treatment and to ensure a more uniform interpretation of legislation by the national authorities. the report also stresses the central role of work-life balance in achieving genuine equality between men and women. the commission agrees with this analysis. we know that women still have the majority of family and domestic responsibilities. they are thus more likely than men to have their educational and professional careers interrupted or even abandoned, inevitably leading to inequalities between men and women in working life and a loss of women's productive potential. the provision of accessible, affordable and quality childcare services is, in this respect, crucial to contribute to the increase in the employment rate of women, as underlined by the barcelona objectives. the commission will report in 2008 on progress towards these objectives. the commission also launched a consultation of the social partners on work-life balance, the second phase of which has just been completed at the end of july. the commission considers that the issue is complex and needs to be addressed through a diversified set of instruments. however, existing community legislation could be amended to take better account of the new challenges facing europe. the commission is analysing the response of the social partners to this consultation and will take the necessary action on this basis. we also continue to support the exchange of good practice in this area, as highlighted in the draft resolution. i would like to remind you that respect for equality between all women and all men is a fundamental value of the european union. in this context, the question of the balanced participation of women and men in decision-making is absolutely essential. this is why it is one of the priorities of the roadmap for equality between men and women adopted by the commission last year. finally, i would like to stress the importance of combating stereotypes, which is emphasized several times in the report. this will be, perhaps, the most difficult barrier to overcome in achieving equality between women and men. indeed, the fight against stereotypes goes beyond legislation and financial instruments: it is about changing the behaviours, attitudes and values that determine and influence the role of men and women in society and their professional choices. equality policy has always been, and will continue to be, a driver of change in behaviour and attitudes. the commission welcomes the support given to it by the european parliament through this motion for a resolution.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not women's employment is increasing, but unfortunately disproportionately in precarious employment. this means that women have to be flexible and get little money for it. most women are reserved for the triple c jobs: c as cleaning, c as caring, and c as cashiering, in supermarkets and shopping malls. but we women want the triple m: m as money equal pay for equal work, m as management more and more women have a top education, so it should be possible for them to push through the glass ceiling into management effortlessly and finally also m as motherhood yes, we want to be able to combine work, career and motherhood, and for this we need much more support from the politics. we need more than just childcare places, as the barcelona objectives say. no, we need the highest quality child care. this must be affordable for all mothers and fathers, and it must be financed by the community. it is not only the children of the wealthy who should be given the best possible care from an early age. we need not only equal rights for men and women, we need equal rights for all children. education and training do not begin at school, but much earlier. we have to rethink that. much of this is contained in the excellent report by mrs kauppi. we support him.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by kathalijne buitenweg on the application of the principle of equal treatment without distinction of race or ethnic origin. racism is contrary to the principles of the european union and it is shocking to note that the number of racist attacks reported in the european union has increased dramatically. i therefore believe that information on anti-discrimination laws and enforcement opportunities should be given much greater importance. i also support the rapporteur's call for the commission not only to ensure that the directive is correctly transposed into law, but also to take account of the obstacles that exist in practice.
in writing. i vote for equality between women and men. although the commission is committed to gender equality, further efforts and action are needed as there is no real progress in implementing the principle of 'equal pay for equal work'. i am calling for gender-neutral pay and pensions and for the promotion of parental leave for men and paternity leave. member states must also take concrete measures to combat the inequalities between women and men that arise from interruptions in the working life (e.g. maternity or care for dependent persons).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. anyone who has watched the way governments have been tampering with the constitution over the past year, making it unrecognisable and illegible and robbing it of its spirit and european charisma, has had to realise that all this has nothing whatsoever to do with what the citizens wanted - including those who said no in france and the netherlands. but if you have the patience and time to watch what is happening in preparation for the intergovernmental conference, you will see that the governments, with their lawyers and state offices, are tearing at the architecture of this constitution like termites. grain by grain, element by element, is being dragged out of this constitution. i really wonder why nobody asks the governments what they're doing. is it really just self-power, is it really indifference to the expectations of the people, or is it the sheer nationalism we are seeing resurge in europe? the language! today there was a delegation from austria of members of the landtag who asked me: how can i make your yes to this constitution understandable to anyone? i can't read them. i can't even understand them anymore. i don't know what the texts, references, footnotes and footnotes mean anymore. i believe that at the end of this intergovernmental conference we are faced with a europe in which, for the first time in history, people will no longer be able to recognize the political order in which they live. and then you will lose many supporters, including those who fought for many years for this constitution. the basic rights! the commission's vice-president, you are invoking the spirit of compromise. but why not invoke the nature of universal basic human rights that make it unthinkable that we form a community of values in which a few states declare: i do not belong to that community of values. how can we go to mr putin and say to him: we are the great community of values for universal human rights except for a few of us. this is such a crack in the credibility of europe, one cannot invoke the spirit of compromise! it's about a different spirit, a great monster that rules here. i do not think that what is happening here at the moment will be approved by the citizens, whom we do not intend to ask any more anyway.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my esteemed colleague goebbels said after his speech that despite his criticism he would not die for nice, which i hope he will live for a long time. above all, nice is not a treaty worth dying for. i hope that at least this contract we will get will have a much higher added value than nice. i would like to pick up where mr lambsdorff left off. our citizens want a strong european union, not as an intervention in everyday life, but as a representation to the outside, to be able to better represent the interests of our citizens. i think that this treaty, for all its weaknesses, is a major step forward. it is a necessary, though not sufficient, condition for us to pursue an active foreign and security policy. we are of course concerned about the kosovo problem. we shall see whether there is any will at all to pursue a common foreign and security policy. both the portuguese and slovenian presidencies must prepare very intensively for what we will do if there is no consensual solution. but it is important that we create the conditions for this in the long term. i would like to mention two things. the first is that we need a functioning diplomatic service, which must be based in the commission. it is not worthwhile to put foreign policy in the hands of the vice-president of the commission and the high commissioner, especially if the diplomatic service has to be organised elsewhere. secondly, as several colleagues have already pointed out, such as enrique barón crespo and others, we must make it clear that this parliament has been involved from the very beginning in the nomination of the high commissioner in question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question is not whether the agreement will be concluded with the council, as my colleague mr schulz has said, or even with ratification, but whether we can convince our citizens during and after ratification that this treaty will help them to be able to represent their own interests more effectively in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. lisbon is another important step forward and brings the convention's recess to a successful end. but lisbon is not going to get us there. the ratification process is still ahead of us and will require everything from us, yes, all of us. we will succeed, together or not at all, in making the european union more democratic, closer to the citizens, more transparent, more capable of acting both internally and externally. the reform treaty is another step in the right direction. only together can we make the treaty on european union a valuable addition to the lives of the people of europe, to the european union and to europe as a whole. but the reform treaty alone has not yet put a stop to egoism, nationalism, protectionism, the eu's naysayers and its falsehood. they are the cancer of the common good, the cancer of europe's future. the opt-out method is contrary to the community's europe. the opt-out method weakens the community of values. it creates first- and second-class citizens, and i wonder why the representatives of poland and the united kingdom want to prevent the common foreign and security policy of the european union. we want data protection to be controlled by the courts and with parliamentary participation. we want the staff decisions to be taken after the european parliament elections. we want to keep the social partners and the social dialogue firmly rooted and strengthened. we want to raise awareness of the added value of the reform treaty and the further expansion of the european parliament's co-decision rights, because only in this way will europe become more democratic, closer to the citizens and more transparent.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my group will not support this report because the proposed system of representation, the distribution of seats, disregards basic democratic principles, perpetuates historical inequalities and violates the nature of this house, as the representation of the citizens and its electors. it's not the dreams that don't come true. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a parliament is not, as the rapporteurs told us in their letter last night, a representation of the socioeconomic capacity of states. no, it is the representation of voters and nothing else. it is a representation of the citizens or it is not a parliament! it is not a parliament if there are no demos to rely on, and it is not true that the concept of citizenship in europe has nothing to do with international law or the concept of citizenship in the united states. it's the same thing, and i'd advise you to look at the existing contracts. i would suggest that you look at the charter of fundamental rights, which sets out the rights of these citizens. i would suggest that you look at the rules of access to the european court of justice. i suggest you look into the rules on how to become a voter. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the union. that's what they say every five years. the inhabitants, the population, are a symbolic expression of socioeconomic capacity. but we have already failed to do so, as we were asked in nice: 'dear parliament, tell us yourself how you want to be composed'. we failed then. unfortunately, we have not used these seven years to clarify what this parliament is. we are therefore continuing the historical humbug and the historical constraints that have arisen up to the present day. this has nothing to do with democracy or constitutional thinking.
i have to say, madam president, the debate on the future composition of the european parliament today has unfortunately not been the highlight of european democracy. it is perhaps a good thing that neither the commission nor the council have found the time to listen to this. we have had to listen to speakers who have been very passionate about principles, but they have not really led us to the concrete, and therefore have nothing to offer but passion. in fact, we have heard from many, many who have put their national self-interest first. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have also heard, thank god, from some who have acted pragmatically, who have sought comprehensible solutions and have therefore found a good basis in the proposal of our two rapporteurs, alain lamassoure and adrian severin. i think we should thank the two rapporteurs for the work they have done in the committee and in the follow-up. this is something that mediterranean courtesy normally requires, but in this particular case the two rapporteurs have really earned this thanks. so even from someone who is not from the mediterranean, i would like to say a heartfelt thank you. i hope, and i look forward to it, that we may then have a great moment for this parliament tomorrow at the vote. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. in any case, the european parliament has proposed a reasonable business case for the 2009 elections.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as a member of the mexican delegation, i would like to thank the committee on women's rights and especially the rapporteur for dealing with this problem, which has cast a shadow over some of the conflicts with our colleagues in mexico. i hope that tomorrow we will have a very large majority expressing an opinion and stressing the seriousness of our approach to this problem. in the face of the appalling figures, the reports of threats against witnesses and lawyers, of death and torture, of threats against families, of situations which cannot be tolerated in any way, it is the duty of the european union to speak out and it is also the duty of the european union to point out the particular nature of this phenomenon. this is a particularly dramatic expression of a global phenomenon of treatment of women which must be brought to a swift end in the 21st century. it is necessary to address this issue in a spirit of friendship with our colleagues in the countries concerned, because positive developments in society are only possible if women can live without fear and if the threats to them and to the suffering they suffer because they are women are dealt with appropriately. i therefore welcome all the positive measures that are being taken here. we need witness protection, we need improved justice, we need enlightenment. we can then, i believe, help the women in latin america, in mexico, to achieve a level of protection that is acceptable to us.
in writing. despite massive efforts, the problem of femicide and the impunity of perpetrators in mexico and central america has not improved. the governments of mexico and central america should therefore continue to intensify their efforts to prevent and educate women about femicide and violence against women. in this context, i ask the central american governments to strengthen controls on maquila companies in terms of their corporate and social responsibility. the european principles of equal opportunities and equal rights for men and women must also be incorporated more fully into the eu's active human rights policy. i therefore call on the commission to come forward with a proposal on how the various european initiatives to combat femicide can be better coordinated with local authorities and institutions in the future. all the instruments available in the field of foreign policy must be used. i would therefore ask the commission and the member states to intensify their monitoring of compliance with the democratic and human rights clauses in existing and negotiated agreements. in the context of the negotiations on the association agreement with the countries of central america, a gender equality study shall be carried out as part of the sustainability review. the european human rights policy, and in particular the rights of women, must not be subject to economic and geopolitical interests.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we welcome this report. it is an excellent report. the term 'initiative report' is a bit of a misnomer. what we are doing here is to dwell on the subject of the first inquiry committee of the european parliament. and we're going to keep it that way. i don't want to complain, but it's a shame we have to do this at this late hour. i am interested to see on the speakers' list the groups which have spoken on this subject today. it is always easier to lament the scandals in the eu than to work on concrete and positive solutions. that's sometimes a long way -- we're in the cigarette business -- and it's a good way. we are making progress, and this is very clear from mr staes' report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the profits from fraud in this area go directly to organized crime. and it is precisely because we are able to celebrate progress together tonight that i would like to recall a case which is less of a credit to europe, especially to the commission. we have evidence that between 1992 and 2001 some 10 000 truckloads of cigarettes were smuggled in via montenegro, mainly towards italy. this is probably the biggest fraud on the european budget that has ever taken place. the augsburg public prosecutor's office in germany has made 60 requests for legal aid in this context. there are confessions in switzerland, there are convictions, all these things. however, there are no claims on the part of the european union for the recovery of own resources from the republic of montenegro. commissioner, i wish we could stand before our taxpayers and say: 'we have also looked at this case'. there are small customs officials from germany, austria and central europe who have done a great job here and who feel a little abandoned by the european commission in this context. we have to deal with this huge story. it's not expired yet. that is my wish for the overall very pleasant occasion we are discussing today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. our parliament, and in particular my group, the epp-ed, will be voting in favour of this agreement today by a large majority, because we have finally reached a good interim result. it is only an interim result, however, and both vice-president barrot and our rapporteur, mr el khadraoui, have already indicated that we still have other important issues to resolve in connection with the open skies agreement: the issues of cabotage, the right of establishment, ownership issues, a number of other things such as subsidies and the like. the agreement shows that, apart from the fact that it has succeeded in bringing about a half-hearted interim result , there are a number of weaknesses in our system. this too has been mentioned. in the long term, we will have to make an effort to give our parliament more opportunities to influence the content of this agreement, in the same way as our colleagues in the american congress have done in the last few centuries - one has to say almost arrogantly - to influence the content of this agreement. we have achieved this this time by a kind of systemic trick, by intervening before the council's statement, but we need better rules for the content of the content. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention once again to something which is also an important issue in air transport, and particularly in air transport between the united states and europe. safety regulations and safety checks are important so that passengers can also use this important means of transport with a good conscience and a feeling of safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised, and that the safety of the air transport sector is not compromised.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. it was not the first time they had had to deal with a negotiator who is extremely difficult, to put it mildly, because he assumes from the outset, on the basis of his experience, that europe will give in in any case and always. still, if you read the book, the united states has a huge advantage. the european union will have to show that it is a good thing, because a joint committee is only an opportunity, but not a success, especially since the results in the united states are already being called into question. i see no balance yet and little response to our demands. the comparison made by my predecessor with the somewhat strange preparation for marriage is quite accurate. the issues of aviation safety, environmental protection and property rights are still on the table. in the field of security we have not yet achieved what we must achieve, and in the field of data protection in particular, in protecting european citizens from excessive measures, we have not yet achieved the result we need and must achieve. in addition, the contribution of air transport to the failure to meet the kyoto target remains enormous. at the present rates of growth, europe will be in great difficulty unless there is a common agreement with the united states, and i do not see that at the moment. i see first steps at most, but europe must speak with much more confidence and with one voice in this negotiating process, because what has happened so far gives us opportunities. we have not yet started the harvest, and i can announce that the european parliament and the committee on transport and tourism will be very attentive to the results that will be presented to this joint negotiating committee.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this report points to some problems, to an overload which we as people who have to fly a relatively large number of times experience very often, but which of course affects all air traffic - not just business but also leisure flights. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for trying to reconcile two positions which were very clearly present in the committee on this subject. on the one hand, there was an unbridled euphoria of growth, which is really just about building more airports to relieve the old ones, and on the other hand, there was concern that there were also the issues of organisation and, of course, the responsibility for environmental protection and airport trainers. we are faced with a situation where the quality of life of airport staff is most seriously affected, particularly in the area of major airports or of regional airports in less favourable locations, and here too we have a responsibility. we cannot just treat this with new growth prospects. it's about the organization. the system of hubs and slots as it currently exists in european air traffic is suboptimal. we have hubs in certain areas that are so large that the complexity of the transition relationships that they create makes it very likely that a small mistake will have a huge impact not just on an airport but on the whole airspace. this problem must be solved. the report also makes some very important suggestions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airports are able to meet the requirements of the new standards.
i have to say, madam president, in this house, neither the elevator system nor the bell works. that's why so many of us didn't make it in time. perhaps you could ask the servants to ring the bell.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production. we must bring back more humanity here, instead of attacking our hardworking small farmers with the unworkable stick of bureaucracy. the black sheep, who are eating up whole fields and economies and causing bse and other scandals, must be traced. it is a mockery, however, to say that prices are rising and that this could perhaps be a reason for less support. an austrian organic farmer who before joining the eu received about 7 shillings, or about 95 cents, per litre of milk, now receives only 30 cents more in support, so he loses thousands of euros and this in the face of constantly changing bureaucratic regulations which make life difficult for him! the health check proposed should therefore only serve to create a longer-term and reliable better framework, and not to lead to a brachial reform in which the last farmer throws the gun into the grain. the idea of using agricultural funds not used up for prestigious projects such as galileo is to be rejected in the strongest terms, given the massive deaths of farmers! we must not be completely dependent on the gene companies.
in writing. the disappearance of frontiers is evidently reflected in a very short time in a massive decline in cigarette sales, which is not limited to the border area but extends into the interior. the lack of a labour market is tempting many individuals to smuggle mini-batches across the border on foot to secure their income. dreamy profit margins despite the high cost of transportation have contributed to the skyrocketing cigarette smuggling in recent years. what some people dismiss as a crime of chivalry is what organized crime gangs make a living off of - and not badly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the information campaigns as the traffickers imagine will probably change little, as studies show that most consumers are well aware of the higher concentration of pollutants and the criminality. montenegro is particularly infamous for being the number one transshipment point for cigarette smuggling, and the country is also a major contributor to the state's profits. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tobacco industry is not subject to the same penalties as the tobacco industry.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to give my full support to this on behalf of my group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are in complete agreement with that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not known for getting involved in business matters. but this debate is on every monday afternoon at 5 p.m. i wonder why we have an urgent item on the agenda on thursday afternoon. perhaps this very question could be discussed again in the circle of the honourable members of this house, because every time we have the same debate about whether or not to put on the agenda at this moment some item, some summit that someone is holding somewhere. i would be very pleased if something like this could be put on the agenda of the house.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not it's always so hard to decide what's for and what's against. we would be in favour of this and could support it if we were to get the commitment of the epp-ed group and other groups to actually put uzbekistan on the agenda and discuss it at the next opportunity. so it should not mean that we lose sight of uzbekistan and its development. i think that is a very good point.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased that commissioner stavros dimas is here. i would like to commend the commission for the steps it has taken last week to deal with the problem of illegal spring hunting in malta. we have dealt with this subject in detail in the plenary, but also in our committee on petitions. i believe that it is an important step to write the final warning to the maltese authorities. i hope that next spring we will see the result of this important and correct political step and that the behaviour will be in line with european law, namely that no more illegal spring hunting will be allowed.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is well known that a link between pesticides used in agriculture or genetically modified food on the one hand and various diseases on the other has long been suspected. if there are pesticides in the drinking water, it is surely high time to speed up the slow milling of the eu bureaucracy. how far the target of reducing pesticide use will actually be achieved remains to be seen. we know that: high-minded goals that are not achieved. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it's actually very late in replacing these materials. when you consider that the eu consumes a quarter of all pesticides used worldwide, even though it has only 4% of the cultivated land, this problem becomes clear. this also shows that we have clearly misdirected our traditional agriculture with eu subsidies. in general, consumers are not unduly suspicious of the fact that clever agricultural producers are trying to circumvent the prescribed limit values by using a combination of authorised plant protection products. given the unknown interactions, it is high time that we also took a controlled approach. in addition, the steady increase in the limit values over the past years should be reversed in view of the increased risk potential in at-risk groups such as children. importing organic products from the other side of the world not only goes against various environmental objectives, but is also a reason for increased transport burden and a long-standing expression of the union's failed promotion policy. our subsidies should be reconsidered in this sense, so that in particular domestic farmers who do not use pesticides receive more support. if they are instead harassed with bureaucratic hurdles, it is no wonder that they will eventually throw in the towel in anger, while brussels wonders about the continued deaths of farmers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. but it's important that we make decisions based on the facts, and not construct, so to speak, images of the enemy that don't really correspond to reality. it is very easy to put a certain group of workers in a corner with this package of legislation and not to leave them out. that would be completely wrong. we must be clear that we all in europe need a functioning agriculture and therefore a certain use of plant protection products. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. but i think the quantitative approach that has been taken here is just too stereotypical. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission's objective of considering subsidiarity as a crucial aspect of the buffer zones is not a bad one. each member state should decide for itself how it wants to regulate this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the approach of looking for non-chemical alternatives in sensitive areas, fhn areas, etc. is also entirely to be supported. the breyer report is important in supporting the three-zone concept. it would be too narrow to limit this to the member states. we must be particularly careful about the exclusion criteria: cmr 1 clear prohibition, that is clear. but i also think that cmr 2 is a good idea to base it on scientific data.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european parliament has to contend with the european council's very lax approach to democracy. it is possible that the number of seats in parliament will be increased by one without consultation and that we will simply say 750 plus one and believe that we have done enough to comply with the laws. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council of ministers. it seems to be quite simple at first sight: we are obliged by the rules of procedure to ensure the greatest possible transparency of our activities, not just any kind of pragmatic transparency, not a cost-benefit analysis. this is not the audio-visual presentation. you can use an audiovisual representation to make propaganda, you can quickly inform yourself. but the audiovisual record does not offer a serious examination of the word spoken in this house, of the discussions and debates that take place here. there can be no doubt about that. multilingualism is a guiding principle of this parliament. the debate in parliament is the heart of our work! the citizenship is our first priority. there is no doubt, if you think about it for a moment, that the european union is a great success. a parliament which stops - as the only parliament in the world - recording the minutes of its debates is giving up a large part of its identity as a parliament! on the cost side, there would be a very simple way to save costs by not translating the debates here, but transcribing the interpretation. it would also reflect the vividness of the debate and reflect the debate as it was actually understood and conducted.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am committed to the car as a universal means of transport and i am committed to the contribution of the car industry to the prosperity of europeans. i don't confess to a car fetish. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. building an efficient eco-car is a necessity in the face of climate change. europe also has a duty to be a good example for the booming new markets. the consumer ultimately determines the future of the car by the decision to buy it. that is why i have campaigned in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for more transparent, easier to understand information on the emissions of vehicles. i call on the commission to use this report as an opportunity to come forward with an ambitious legislative proposal, and to do so quickly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make two points: first, the one thing we probably and hopefully share most: this is the view that conventional energy sources and forms and technologies will continue to play a major role in the future. the idea that we can replace all of this with alternative energy is an illusion. but we must make conventional technologies more environmentally friendly - this is absolutely necessary - and we must also make sure that these conventional technologies are more efficient. these are the points on which we agree, and here the report is very much to be supported. nuclear technology may be a little different. it must be absolutely clear, without any restrictions, that each country can choose its own technology, that is to say, it can opt for nuclear technology or opt out of technology in the nuclear sector. but what we must have in common is the question of security. the security, not only of the energy production process, but also of course of the final storage, and - which is very important in today's world, where the global is becoming more important - the issue of non-proliferation of nuclear technologies, which can then be used for military purposes. i would have liked to have seen these questions addressed in this report. we have, admittedly, spoken about this in other reports, and i believe that europe must lead by example. apart from the - if you will - ideological question of whether we are for or against nuclear technology, the question of safety is one that must be given the highest priority. i hope that we in this parliament and, of course, the commission will pay more and more attention to the fact that all aspects of security, including the question of non-proliferation, are at the forefront. otherwise we will not be able to live up to our responsibility to humanity and to peace in this world. i hope that this will be even more clearly expressed in some of the amendments tomorrow than in mr reul's report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the importance of statistics is not only recognised by those who have come here too late. the question is: will the measures that are being taken achieve the goal that we are all probably pursuing? i am very disappointed, commissioner, that you are now talking again about a new regulation which will also be negotiated with us. perhaps you can comment briefly on how this relates to these advisory bodies. the second is that the advisory committees always carry the great inherent danger of becoming independent and dragging everything out. would it not have been better, despite all this, to evaluate the problems briefly and clearly, also through external consultations with companies, which we had at eurostat, and then quickly to reach an agreement with parliament in the political process, rather than to re-deploy and put this to the back burner? we all know that the main problem is the interface between eurostat and the national offices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to refer to a decision taken yesterday afternoon. however, i must say that neither the socialist group, the epp group or any other group was informed of the wish that we should draft a resolution on russia this time, despite the fact that this has been rejected several times in the conference of presidents. we must of course take note of the decision. i would like to say here, however, and we will also say to the groups who have asked for this, in particular the greens and the liberals, that we want to ask that this resolution not be adopted now but at the next sitting of parliament. i just want to drop this off. of course, you have to follow the rules formally. but in fairness to the greens and liberals, we would like to point out that we are not asking for this resolution to be adopted this week, but at the next plenary session. the socialist group will vote in this way, and i believe that the epp will take a similar position.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. from the many upheavals of europe, the peasant wars and revolutions, we all know the romantic story of a refugee being hidden in a barrel of dung to be taken across the border and escape the hounds of richelieu and the king's guards. if it succeeds, it will not look good, it will not smell good, but when it is washed, you can say: it is alive! the constitution has been similarly affected. the governments have buried them in a mass of illegible, indecipherable texts, of opt-outs, of clauses, footnotes, resolutions, protocols, and they have taken the constitution across the border under the protection of this heap of crap. the tragedy is that they have brought this treasure of the constitution to safety, not from the king's hounds, but from the watchful eyes of the people. i've been digging through this wasteland of texts. yes, i have actually found all the key achievements of the constitution, which i myself worked on for over ten years, and i could actually be happy. still, this situation makes me very uneasy. and then, as is the case with such adventures, one or the other, when helping the fugitive, left a piece of the treasure behind. and so i found some government hands in this shit pile. one of them has secured an opt-out, which means that it has stolen a piece of the charter of fundamental rights, a piece of parliamentary rights, a piece of data protection, and so on. the treasure arrives damaged, but in the main. we have won a piece of europe, we have preserved a piece of the future of europe, but not with the citizens, but without the citizens, not with the parliaments, but without the parliaments, and that is a great danger. we have won a piece of europe, but we have not overcome the crisis of confidence of the citizens of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. you must be having a hard time right now. in countries where promises have been made for referendums, the treaty is presented as some trifle, some continuation of something, as in the united kingdom or in my home country of austria. in other countries, such as germany, there is talk of a total rebuilding of the community and a historic breakthrough. what's true now? i think that on this occasion we should recall the words and clear sentences of the former president of the federal republic of germany, roman herzog, who was after all chairman of the convention on fundamental rights and who said: 'the eu constitution is undermining democracy. now we have it in a modified form in the reform treaty. if you do not want to allow this to happen, if you do not want to allow democracy to be strangled, then please have the political decency to at least allow referendums, as happened in the past - with the last eu constitutional treaty - even in spain and luxembourg.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i now address this to my colleagues. we have not been informed of this request. there was a communication problem here yesterday. neither the ppe group nor my group has been informed of the existence of this request. that is why we felt rather overwhelmed and also abstained from voting. that is why both i and mr daul have asked this morning that we should work carefully on this resolution. we note the desire for a resolution and we agree to it on condition that we work it out carefully. we shall have the full information after the summit. that is why we are asking for a postponement until after the summit.
on behalf of the pse group . the commission is not you've done a very good job and you deserve a good lunch, and so do we. we should postpone the votes until tomorrow.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on a community framework for action on the sustainable use of pesticides is important because, despite the existing framework, there are still worrying levels of certain pesticides in soil, air and water. the detection of non-compliance in agricultural crops is also a matter of concern and requires a political initiative. a key element is national action plans with specific targets to reduce the risks and dependence on pesticides. it is very regrettable that the plenary did not follow the amendment which aims at a 50% reduction in substances of concern, toxic and very toxic substances by 2013 and a 20% reduction in pesticide use over the next ten years. this would have been an important political sign, especially in the circumstances.
in writing. i was unable to take up my speaking time yesterday. at the same time, the climate change committee voted on the hassi report, which is the basis for the european parliament's position on the un climate conference. the new european union policy on the use of pesticides is an important step towards better health and environmental protection. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very important one. the proposed system is misleading and would be grossly contrary to the objective of sustainable use of pesticides.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. anyone who has been on the committee on budgets knows how difficult it is in autumn to get rid of a lot of money. it is usually hidden in the budgetary item "reserves of information". there is, of course, the desire to be active and to do something about it. i now turn to you directly, mr president pöttering. the lux film prize was created. the conditions were that the films could be seen until 18 october of this year and that only those members who had seen all three films could and would be allowed to vote under this initiative of the budgetary item. i was just looking at the list. there are not even a dozen members of parliament who will decide tomorrow which tower of babel to give to whom. i would ask you, mr president, to be honest and not deceive us tomorrow, but to tell us how many members actually participated legitimately in this vote. please be careful not to alter the minutes outside at the last minute because the deadline for viewing the films, the viewing deadline, was october 18th. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's because you have too much money, you throw money at people without thinking about it, and that's what destroys even good ideas like the movie awards. but at least be honest tomorrow, mr president.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission is not the point is that we should and must also take a gender-neutral approach to the budget from the women's side. the gender aspect is very important here and gender budgeting should not be an empty word, but really be found in practice. the important thing is that we can increase daphne. unfortunately, our amendment was not adopted and we will now table it again in the plenary. we social democrats support the amendment and the increase in funding for daphne, because it is a relatively small but very important programme to combat domestic violence. then there is the need to provide adequate funding for the gender institute to ensure its successful start-up. it is also important that the expenditure for the european year of intercultural dialogue be balanced between the sexes. there are many women here, especially those who are migrants, who should be very much involved in this intercultural dialogue.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, you have explicitly mentioned in your examples that only four member states have been involved, for example, in the telephone contact. we have other cases - i remember the situation at the time of the tsunami - where those who went to this room to indulge their pedophile tendencies, for example, were protected by data protection, and the relatives and authorities did not know who was really affected here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the name and shame would really be a way of asking the member states what they should do about this, so that they would finally change their behaviour.
the commissioner, of course, sees the future development of human resources in the european union as a major challenge. it is therefore very important for parliament to know not only the number of employees and the recruitment agencies responsible - you have, i believe, referred to these employees as full-time equivalents - but also the exact amounts planned in the various categories and how this is distributed between the countries. can you give us some statistics?
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would be interested to know what the cost of these officials is. how much does it cost per year?
commissioner, you have referred to the amounts of fines imposed. the purpose of these fines is to change the behaviour of the companies concerned. what were your experiences? and it is for good reason that when you began your term as commissioner you gave us in the committee on regional development the opportunity to discuss the de minimis rule with you. you were very quick to react back then. thank you very much. are the companies reacting as quickly as you did then?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am very grateful that we can have this debate with the commissioner today. with the rise in commodity prices, more attention is being paid to agriculture. the situation is due, on the one hand - and the commissioner and some of my predecessors have already mentioned this - to demand from third countries and, on the other hand, to crop failures in traditional agricultural exporting countries such as australia and new zealand. it is therefore necessary that we activate all the resources we have in europe. i have now found, for example, on my visit to romania, that at least one third of the total agricultural area is still uncultivated. there are also considerable resources in the member states. the first approach is certainly to abolish the setaside. as i said, i still believe that as a farmer, the first priority is the production of healthy food, the second priority is the production of animal feed and the third priority is the production of energy resources. in the end, however, i believe that the marginal price increases will not bring our farmers the price compensation that would offset the losses of the last decades. we're getting -- and this has been addressed by many of my previous speakers -- maybe 10 percent more in commodity prices, but trade has hit it in some cases by 40 or 50 percent. i am thinking of butter, for example, and i do not think that is justified. one response from us farmers would be to better organize ourselves into contract farming producer groups to respond to the food monopoly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to congratulate our rapporteur. i'm more concerned about worker safety. i can join all those who wish to do so, and we do so with our resolution, that the member states should act quickly. the results so far show that this has worked in some member states, but not in mine. the question is what steps can the european commission take to prevent the emergence of first- and second-class citizens in the field of worker protection. how have the member states responded to this debate so far? are the member states in favour of promoting worker protection at european level and of taking action and measures such as the ban on smoking in restaurants and bars? we tend to approach this issue from our own situation and very often forget that we should be concerned first and foremost with the workers who have to work under these conditions.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would first like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on this very good report and thank her very much for her excellent cooperation. the report contains several messages which i had the opportunity to convey clearly to the turkish authorities when i visited turkey with martin schulz. firstly, the reforms must be continued and even intensified. the commissioner has already mentioned article 301 of the penal code and other reforms which must guarantee that there is indeed full freedom of expression and diversity of opinion in turkey. this is of course also true of religious freedom and many other issues which my colleagues will have to discuss. the reform process must be intensified. secondly, on the kurdish question, i want to make a very clear statement. i have tried for many years, indeed for decades, to make my contribution to the solution of the kurdish question. but now the time has come when it is possible to resolve the kurdish question also through political and parliamentary means and to refrain from violence. i cannot understand why the pkk continues to carry out terrorism. i can understand that because the pkk does not want a peaceful solution and there may be some in the military who do not want a peaceful solution. but we should send a clear signal that we want a peaceful solution, as iraq does. we also had a conversation with the representative of president talabani in ankara, who also made it clear that we do not want the continuation of pkk terrorism, but a political solution. i hope that the representatives of the kurdish regional government have now come to the conclusion that the continuation of pkk terrorism is harmful not only to turkey but also to iraq. i therefore, and we social democrats, can only join in the appeal that turkey and iraq must work together to put an end to terrorism in a peaceful way, in good cooperation, including with the kurdish regional government. on the other hand, turkey must make offers to the kurdish population in the country so that they can feel comfortable in turkey and also consider the country as their home.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have been able to visualize the systematic destruction of some 500 greek orthodox christian churches in the turkish-occupied part of cyprus a few days ago, the destruction of a european cultural heritage that has gone beyond recovery and has been irreparably damaged. i believe that this is a course which is as clearly contrary to the european spirit as the continued lack of tolerance towards christians and other minorities. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. it is not possible for a candidate country to occupy parts of an eu member state militarily, such as northern cyprus, or even to plan a military attack against another country, as is the case now with iraq. the eu is not tired of stressing that respect for fundamental rights, especially freedom of religion and expression, is of paramount importance for eu membership. in the case of turkey's aspiration to membership, this is clearly nothing but empty words.
i have to say, madam president, it is not very sensible to play politics of reality against politics of morality, as mr watson has said. we need both . we need a realistic assessment of russia and a clear and firm position on the moral, that is, ethical questions. many of us believed that after the collapse of communism, russia would actually disappear from the world stage, and many of us wished that it did. it has not happened, and it has not happened, because russia certainly has higher revenues and greater power for international political action as a result of rising energy prices. we should and must take this into account, everything else is unrealistic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not want to simply acknowledge that there are steps towards the de-democratization of russia, steps which we cannot accept, steps which have nothing to do with the development of democracy, but something to do with the development of democracy. we do not want to simply take note of the fact that russia is unfortunately not prepared to enter into an open partnership with its neighbours or our common neighbours. it would be in our interest, and we should say this very clearly: we want to develop this partnership with russia, but with a russia which recognizes the independence and sovereignty of all its neighbours. what we cannot accept is that russia, on the one hand, as a member of the council of europe or the osce, for example, rightly wants to exert influence, but on the other hand does not want to take responsibility and, for example, refuses to monitor elections. we should not distrust the elections on principle, but a country like russia, which believes that its democracy is fully developed, must also be able to allow this to be verified in practice. if russia wants to play a major role in the council of europe and the osce, we call on russia to demonstrate this by allowing election observers to make it clear that the elections are transparent and fair. this is the interest which the european union should clearly express towards russia.
in writing. yesterday and today, the eu and russia share a common history, strong economic and political links and common traditions. the close cooperation has been further deepened by the progressive globalisation and the increasing demand of european countries for fossil fuels. to ensure future energy supply, eu member states have been working together on energy security since the 1990s. the energy charter is a key instrument in this context. the aim of this treaty is to develop the energy potential of the eastern european countries and to ensure the continued supply of energy to the eu member states. the lack of ratification of the energy charter by russia is a cause for concern in the light of the increasing intermingling of foreign policy and foreign economic interests with energy supply issues. in this sense, the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights must never be at the disposal of the eu's external relations. economic gestures of intimidation can never be a meaningful means of achieving foreign policy objectives in the light of the strong economic interdependence between the eu and russia and should therefore be rejected. i call on both the commission and the council to reject russian attempts to gain unilateral advantage in european energy markets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. theoretically, it should be possible for a professional's qualifications to be recognised in any other eu member state and to be subject to the same conditions as nationals. in practice, there are still some problems to be cleared up. if an experienced austrian teacher in germany, for example, were to have to undergo a two-year internship for the same job, a lot of things would go wrong. in some eu countries, internships are not only used to provide the cheapest possible income for highly qualified professionals with academic degrees, but also to create barriers to entry. precarious working conditions, which are at present only characteristic of the low-wage sector, have thus long since spread to highly qualified workers. the eu must not encourage this development with the 'blue card'. we have enough skilled workers, if we are broad enough, to pay them decently.
in writing. we already have a big problem with organized crime gangs and illegal immigrants who like to be in border areas, and they are easier to stop than in a city. both are waiting in the starting gates to escape to other countries when the border opens. we must oppose this by strengthening crossborder cooperation and intensifying border controls. the schengen enlargement is a major responsibility for all the member states. the accession of schengen should not therefore be made dependent solely on the functioning of the schengen information system - something which poland, for example, does not seem to have yet managed to do - but rather it must be ensured that future schengen members can effectively monitor the eu's external border, that there is no undermining of the transitional periods for the protection of labour markets and that the begging system does not continue to increase. until this is guaranteed, there must be no 'husch-pfusch' enlargement. the approval of enlargement is highly questionable, as according to the frontex annual report 2006, the number of calls at the current schengen external borders (mainly in austria and germany) is still significantly higher than at the eu external borders. the question is whether schengen should not be partially abolished, especially since, according to a smuggling report by the austrian ministry of the interior, almost 50 per cent of the illegal immigrants in austria come from italy.
in writing. the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides is an important complement to the proposal for a regulation and directive which was voted on today at first reading. the thematic strategy is necessary because the use of plant protection products in the european union has not decreased between 1992 and 2003, despite the successful voluntary measures of some member states, and is at a high level. the belohorská report once again underlines the need to apply the precautionary principle to the use of pesticides.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in a position to take account of the specific needs of the community. if it really should be so - and there are studies and figures to prove it - that nuclear energy should have a massive impact on our co2 reductions, then we would have to have a multiplication of the current power plants. that is not realistic and not feasible. that is why - and i will speak about this in my next report - good measures on energy efficiency, but also on reducing co2 emissions from cars, would be the better way to make europe fit and to convince other countries and continents.
in writing. in principle, we all agree that we need more energy efficiency and more rational energy transmission and that the expansion of renewable energy sources is important. however, the promotion of renewable energy should not be used as a pretext to further restrict the sovereignty of the member states through the back door in the wake of the eu constitution. the present report lacks any clarification on this point and must therefore be rejected. despite the continued expansion of renewable energy sources, we will remain dependent on conventional energy production for decades to come and therefore also need to ensure that it is more environmentally friendly. however, the eu still seems to be too fixated on nuclear power plants, reflected not only in their promotion as 'environmentally friendly energy suppliers' - a mockery in itself - but also in the high-funded nuclear research budget. i am also lacking in any visible rethinking here, which is another reason why i reject the report on which the votes are based.
i have to say, madam president, we still have the law with which parliament can show that we take climate protection seriously in europe, and we must mobilise all our forces to make the law that we did not vote on today. i am sorry that we have not made it clear that we want a maximum of 120 grams per kilometre from 2012. that is what the industry promised us more than ten years ago with the proposal to regulate itself, because that would be better and more efficient, and i would have liked to have seen a clear signal on climate policy from this house. we didn't. that is why i voted against the report and i hope that we will have more courage and more courage in the legislature to take climate change in europe seriously.
in writing. of course, smoking bans are in the interests of public health and therefore welcome in public buildings. it is equally sensible to protect children and young people. but it is in these areas that the most effective way to achieve results is to have people who are role models lead by example and to maintain existing anti-smoking campaigns. but it is hypocritical that the eu wants to impose a smoking ban on all member states, but it has not been possible to agree on it even in this house. the freedom of choice is the foundation of our democratic system and of the modern way of life, and therefore smoking should be included. if a majority of the population is in favour of a smoking ban in restaurants, then this will also prevail sooner or later. the trend towards non-smoking is already there, and the principle of sovereignty still leaves it to each country to decide whether and how to introduce smoking bans, for example in the catering sector.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the speech by the esteemed colleague, mr kacin, i missed two things. i would like to thank the president for his generosity and, secondly, and more importantly, for the balance which his report expresses. we have worked well together, and i want to thank you very much for that, and i think it has turned out to be a very good draft report. i am saying exactly what commissioner rehn said. there has been some substantial progress, but when you judge a country, you should say the positive and also the negative. there is also substantial progress in cooperation with the international criminal court, but - and here we meet again - progress is not enough. i hope that in the next few days there will be an agreement with carla del ponte, and i have also made it clear on behalf of my group in my talks with minister ljajić that all the questions should be resolved. we cannot stand still halfway or three-quarters of the way, but full cooperation must be established now. that is the common position of this parliament and the european union. what i think is crucial is that in this country, unfortunately, still - and i agree with what doris pack said - the nationalists often dictate the agenda. we cannot overtake the far-right nationalists even further to the right, as some are trying to do. it's the end of chaos. and the fact that mr nikolić was president of parliament for only four days is a scandal. it is a scandal that in this difficult, delicate situation the idea of making the leader of the far right the president of parliament can even come up. this is not the way to make policy and to move serbia forward. this is something that confirms again and again that serbia is actually on the nationalist path. i hope that all the forces in the centre will reflect and say: a clear line must be drawn between the nationalists on the one hand and the conservatives or social democrats on the other. only the forces of the centre can move the country forward, if they do not make eye contact with the nationalists. yes, we must do more, particularly with regard to visa-free travel. the european union has taken a step towards visa facilitation, and now it must move towards visa-free travel to show young people europe. the young serbs need this, serbia needs this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like to say first that i think it's very good that we can sit down together now. i think that's a very good idea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and this kind of fire-making is encouraged by certain laws in the individual states because it results in certain benefits for certain people. is there any thought of possibly getting countries to change these laws so that this incentive will no longer be available in the future?
what measures does the council intend to take to improve the use of public transport for disabled people? do you see the possibility of applying best practice and benchmarking to simply help us do better here?
mr president-in-office of the council, in the charter of fundamental rights, which will become part of the lisbon treaty and thus retain full legal bindingness, we have also expressly enshrined rights for the disabled. do you see any possibility that the presidency of the council will ask the member states to respond very concretely to the new opportunities created here and to take appropriate measures to ensure that disabled people have more and better opportunities?
mr president, i have tried to listen very carefully to your reply to mrs ludford. it has asked a specific question, which you have not answered, namely how you are going to get the member states which have not yet set up this hotline, this telephone line, to do so. perhaps you could answer that a little more specifically.
mr president-in-office, you have mentioned the barnier report on several occasions. there have been fears among the aid organizations that this document might also envisage structures of quasi-military leadership or pre-determination at the military level. the council is aware of these fears of the militarization of this aid force, and how can and will the council react to this?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank you for coming at such a late hour. i am counting four colleagues, myself included, but i am followed by a quaestor who can take this opportunity to say that we are making these so-called forms of debate, which in reality are only for the record, different, more efficient and more reasonable. but thank you very much, commissioner, for coming here and doing this to yourself. i think better governance, efficient and also transparent governance would actually look different than holding such ghost hour events. in fact, we have come here to take up again a work which has been going on for some time now. it is a matter of such a central area as statistics. on the one hand, we have the very legitimate and necessary interest of most of those involved in the political process in being informed, in knowing more precisely, and more quickly, especially in the field of enterprises, what associations exist and how they work, above all across borders, which we have fortunately and successfully abandoned across europe between many countries. in this way, parliament has taken up the commission's proposal and put it into practice as necessary, always taking it into account - and there were already a number of discussions at first reading with my then very excellent colleague from the secretariat of the committee on economic and monetary affairs - that the changes and simplifications and also the partly more precise controls that go with them will not create additional red tape, will not create additional bureaucratic obstacles, will not have to fill in more forms from the individual member states in the area of the nation states. that objective has been achieved. what has not been achieved is that the data available on the basis of this new directive can actually be used by a wider public interested in the subject. in the area of transparency, more could have been done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, shortly after the adoption of this report - i do not know if there was any opposition in parliament - changes have taken place in other areas of legislation, which have meant that the report, which could have been considered complete, has suddenly not been able to stand and we now have to take account of this in the second reading by changing two words in three places. so, in fact, in reference to all that i've said, the question is: was that really necessary? could we not have been better informed by better coordination of the exchanges in and during decision-making processes, so that we could have avoided this whole evening event, which is nothing? we could have done that at first reading if we had adopted the report a few weeks later. the fact that we are sitting here at all is a classic example of how this union is often short-changed, of how urgently it is necessary to push all these initiatives which try to coordinate these different legislative processes which are taking place in the house of europe in a big way, in a small way, so that we do not have to do to ourselves in the future what we are doing now and can simply save ourselves the money that it costs us - from the first to the second reading with all the preparations and all the interpreters and translations, all these meetings later on - in the interests of a better work of the european union for its citizens.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that it is being discussed in national parliaments or that it is being spoken of later does not make the situation any better here. i am bitter about the fact that when you propose reforms, they are always blocked and linked to something else. secondly, mrs lulling, there has been no delay, no misunderstanding. the time lag i was talking about was the unfortunate incongruity of certain processes. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i am going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i can imagine that there will be more political progress than if we are now just three people plus the commissioner - yes, i repeat, three people - having pseudo-conversations with each other at this ghost hour.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i ask this on behalf of all democratically minded people: it is not right that meps are called a cancer, the cancer of europe, a deadly disease. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. in his speech to the plenary of this house, a member of the european parliament described critics of the eu as a cancer. that's a new quality of language in this house. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. he said this in the plenary on 10 october 2007. i demand that ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the report on the state of eu-africa relations addresses the issue of conflict prevention and resolution, in addition to the important discussion on unfair trade policies. in this context, i would like to mention the last colony in the world, the last colony in africa: western sahara, which has been occupied by morocco for more than 30 years. this occupation violates international law and has resulted in massive human rights violations. when we stand up for the human rights of the saharawi people, for their right to self-determination, we often hear that we are taking a pro-saharawi stance. this attitude is shocking: we stand for human rights and international law. all the european institutions should be involved and not just pursue the economic interests of a few member states. europe needs a credible stance against dictatorships. pointing the finger at a few selected dictatorships damages the union's credibility in conflict resolution and harms the oppressed who have to endure massive human rights violations on a daily basis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we want to support this for a very important reason. the rose revolution in georgia has brought many positive elements, especially after the shevardnadze regime. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. an initiative by the european parliament can help president saakashvili to get back on the right track, namely dialogue with the opposition. i would also ask you, mr president, to keep in touch with the president of parliament, who is also very active in this house, and to try to persuade her to take this path of dialogue. that is the purpose of this debate and the purpose of this resolution, and i therefore want to agree with it completely.
i have to say, madam president, i spoke before the report was called. your predecessor in your chair called a large number of colleagues - in the so-called catch-the-eye procedure - who were not present in the chamber. he also received a rebuke from the rules of procedure, namely from richard corbett. i have tried dozens of times to speak, i have submitted this too, and it has not been taken into account. i think it is an unworthy disregard for the rules of this house and this parliament that your predecessor has just done in your chair.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission has already done so. in sport, we talk about fairness, but it also has to be about women being equal and there is no difference. it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission, and it is a matter of the european parliament, the commission and the council. it should be given more attention. the same applies to public and media attention in top-level sport, which affects funding. women are at a complete disadvantage in elite sports. it is high time that we also make sure that fair play applies to everyone. we also need to ensure that the integration of girls from different cultural groups works better in school sports, and we need to try to include everyone in this regard despite religious and cultural differences.
i have to say, madam president, we have had the european year of education through sport, and i think we can and should draw a lot of conclusions from what we have learned. we have already adopted a number of resolutions on various subjects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it moves too little in sports, which means too little for sports. health awareness is increasing, but obesity and diabetes are rising along with it, especially in children. we have talked a lot about teacher training, and i think we need to start in primary school. there are no specialised teachers here - at least i can say that about my country - but general trained teachers are also used for sport. here again, you need the specially trained teachers to start as early as possible. i think it is very important that the associations, the school and the public authorities cooperate. the associations are doing a lot of work on the education and training of the children, and there is far too little support for this. they all struggle with financial fundamentals, they have too little money, and yet what they do is actually priceless. i am proud of the project now under way in austria, where the sports organisation has succeeded in going into schools and, in cooperation with the teachers, in increasing the provision of physical education with the national school organisations, and above all in specifically addressing the children's inclinations and abilities. what's important to me is to involve the parents. we cannot and must not just leave everything to the public, but we should also make children aware of the importance of nutrition and physical activity. it's also important to start with the parents.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate mr pál schmitt on his own-initiative report. i disagree with mr lundgren. schools in this area, the european union is unfortunately being pushed to its limits by the member states. the problem of the lack of a coherent approach to the problem of the school system is not a problem of the school system itself, but of the school system as a whole. sports are part of this, as is the training of creative thinking or social commitment. in his report, pál schmitt focuses on sports education. while in the united states only those students have a chance of getting into a good university who show excellent grades in their exams and a high level of sportsmanship, the opposite is true in europe. the higher the grade, the less time the young have to play sports. the importance of sport within the school is low, sport is considered as a leisure activity this is a mistake. sport is a way of overcoming mental limitations, and that is exactly what we need in europe. today, sports careers are in many cases made despite school, and not through school. it's a flaw in the system. this report draws attention to this. i would like to end by saying that i am in favour of a group of people who cannot do this. young athletes in the turkish part of cyprus are not allowed to participate in international competitions due to the political situation in their country. they hope that the european union will put an end to their isolation. more than three years after cyprus' accession to the eu, a solution should finally be worked out or already exists.
i have to say, madam president, i am again a representative who believes that soil protection is a task of the european union, and that this is why the european parliament should adopt this framework directive, and i cannot understand the comments that the different types of soil in our member states are not taken into account. i shall read this directive again and see what my colleagues are referring to. i have not heard of these inflexible measures and proposals. i would also like to refer to the role of agriculture. i think that the compromise proposal from the various parties is very important. he said that when it comes to land use for agricultural purposes, member states are encouraged to promote crops and afforestation methods that have a positive impact on soil organic matter and soil fertility and thus prevent landslides and burials. the aim is to promote agricultural practices that avoid soil compaction and erosion. we know that very often agriculture is the problem for soil quality, and that is why i think this clarification is very, very necessary. i think that the wording 'support for agriculture per se' is too weak for soil protection at regional, national and european level.
in writing. in the light of the recent agreement on the reform treaty, the european parliament and with it the eu as a whole must promote and strengthen the reaffirmed spirit of closeness to citizens and respect for subsidiarity in their current initiatives. the present proposal for a framework directive on soil protection does not meet this objective. the bureaucratic complexity involved in this is out of proportion to the actual usefulness of this framework directive and is not acceptable to the european citizen. on the contrary, it is contrary to the decision of the european council to increase the level of bureaucracy at eu level by 25% by 2012. soil is primarily a local resource. effective soil protection must therefore be carried out at the most appropriate levels - regional and local. only at these levels can the most varied soil characteristics be comprehensively addressed. despite the great improvements made by the rapporteur, i reject this proposal because it violates the principle of subsidiarity. some member states already have excellent schemes which could even be weakened. the open method of coordination could at least provide a solution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is always interesting to hear how some colleagues deny reality. i think the commission's proposal is a good one. i also think that peter liese has improved the proposal even further. we are dealing here with a classic case of internalizing external costs. markets can only work if we create the right conditions. we have all committed ourselves to applying the polluter pays principle, but at the same time, those who cause the costs must also pay for them. that means that all costs are included, and that includes the environmental costs of this very co2 emission from the aircraft. i also believe that we need to be more courageous and ambitious in our approach. we all know that for all of us, including some people in the uk, not acting in this case will cost us much more than this measure. but i also need to be treated fairly. all sectors must contribute to this system. we know that carbon emissions, especially at high altitudes, have a much worse effect than carbon emissions on the ground. this too must be taken into account when we talk about the inclusion of these aviation emissions. in addition, this is a sector characterized by very high growth rates. secondly, of course, we have the potential to introduce various management measures to prevent these co2 emissions. that too must be taken into account. the community must set an example internationally. we cannot expect other countries to join us if we do not set a good example ourselves. i also believe that we have great opportunities to increase the competitive advantage we already have in this sector, and that is why we should give the necessary support to innovative companies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i share the views of almost all my colleagues on the substance of the report. i would like to say that i am in favour of the amendments tabled by mr de gucht and mr von wogau. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're making sure that as few people as possible are listening to us, and that, with very few exceptions, no one is sitting in the stands, and we're making sure that the journalists who are supposed to be covering all of this are probably doing other things tonight. secondly, we have heard it repeatedly, and we have heard it in this debate, that in the first reading we as the european parliament must take a stand and take a particularly demanding position, because the council will in any case prove to be a brake and we will not get to the point where we want to get. i would caution against this position: it has been voting for a long time, but it is increasingly not voting any more. we have seen it in the case of air quality regulations: there are and have been actions where heads of state and government, but also the environment ministers, have already gone too far in the first reading. the result is that, with the results we have decided, in 10 to 15 years we will have to close down all the cities in central europe between nuremberg and bologna because we will not be able to meet the values. thirdly, we must come together in the european parliament itself to find common solutions. i actually see in what has happened in the past weeks and months with this directive a successful way and a successful attempt to do that. the environment, transport, the economy and industry are not yet part of a reasonable compromise, but i believe that they will be after the outcome of tomorrow's vote. now we just have to get the rest of the world to come along and do something for the environment.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! i also wish to extend my warm greetings on behalf of my group. we agree with much of what you have said, mr president of the commission, and with much of what is in this document. i would like to focus on two points which are, in our view, essential. these points are at the end of the programme. i would have preferred the beginning, but the position is not so decisive. the first point is communication. i can agree with what mr nassauer said: if we do not tell our citizens what the individual legislative proposals are about and what we are trying to achieve, then half our work is in vain. i am very pleased - and the vice-president is pleased - with the way in which the question of communication has been handled and also with the proposals she has made to work together with parliament. but it is also a question of our language, how we approach the citizens, how we communicate what we do. we have had a number of pieces of legislation in the past year which have improved the position of consumers, whether in telecommunications or other areas. but we have still not done enough to convince our citizens that we are there for them and that we are not some out-of-the-way group working somewhere in brussels. we have to do more. i hope, madam vice-president, that at the end of this debate you will be able to say a little more about what you intend to do, because that is our common objective, and we must communicate that in 2008. there's also a key sentence at the end. the social problems, the social dimension of the eu in the context of globalisation, jobs and migration, and the fears of the citizens of europe are all discussed. but unfortunately, mr president, the paper you have submitted contains only a few answers to these questions. this is not just a question for the commissioner for social affairs, who is also doing a good job. this must be a dimension which concerns the whole commission. this is also a matter for the commission president, who must take care of this social europe. this is a multi-sector issue. i can only pick two areas: international trade. is it not a scandal that there are still european companies based on child labour in india and other countries? what are we going to do about it? it creates fear in us, it creates additional poverty - studies have shown this - and it creates additional poverty in the countries with which we trade. so trade policy must also include a social dimension, possibly through social clauses. (applause from the centre) immigration policy: you write in your paper ... an integrated approach to migration policy.... is it not more like we should say no migration without integration? the commission should have said this more clearly and more clearly a long time ago. we had a discussion with commissioner frattini yesterday. his initial comments on the situation of roma in rome, for example, were not very encouraging. yesterday he said it much better and clearer. is the roma question not one that we have often neglected - not only in the new member states but also in the old member states? mrs merkel and mr sarkozy say: no migration policy without an integration policy. is this not an approach which the commission should have adopted long ago? i doubt that sarkozy and merkel have the same idea of integration as we social democrats. but the statement in principle is absolutely correct and the commission must be clearer on this. (applause from the centre) the question of combating right-wing extremism is therefore not only a struggle to be waged on an ideological level but also, of course, a social issue. unemployment, exclusion and anti-social elements which still exist in our societies are being exploited by the extreme right in their fight against europe. that is why europe and the european commission must take action here. mr schulz, the chairman of the spe group, has said many times: we want a social europe. that is our main objective and it should be the main objective of this programme. you said: 'a great year for europe' should be 2008. we believe that 2008 should be a great year for social europe. mr president of the commission, please go ahead for this social europe! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is a great example of this. i think the overwhelming majority of europeans are quite clear and agree on what it looks like. why, then, is there so much mistrust of you in so many countries, especially from the commission? they say it's communication. many citizens who are even slightly concerned with the problems say: no, it is the concrete projects, it is the failure of the lisbon strategy so far. if mr swoboda says that there is no social security, i have to agree with him on that point. but at the same time mr duff said: yes, the social dimension of the constitutional treaty - sorry, you call it the reform treaty - must be put at the centre. yeah, but where is it? and what form is this contract even legible in? and where are the basic democratic principles of the separation of powers being implemented? if you could translate what they're talking about and what they obviously want, which is to communicate properly, into concrete data, then communication wouldn't be so difficult. the president of the court of auditors gave you a very concrete starting point last night. he has for the first time given very concrete figures: eur 4 billion is therefore being illegally paid out from the structural funds alone. i quote from his speech: 'the most common errors were that requests for reimbursement of ineligible expenditure were made and no calls for tender were made. moreover, there was no supporting documentation for the calculation of overheads and personnel costs. the monitoring and control systems in the member states have generally been ineffective or only partially effective and their functioning is only to a limited extent monitored by the commission. do something and don't try to communicate what you don't do better! this is going to go wrong.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the focus on sustainable europe is partly due to our focus on climate change. today there has been a lot of talk about too much bureaucracy, too much regulation, violation of subsidiarity. it was also made very clear that these arguments are always brought to the table when one does not like a regulation, a law. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental performance of the european union, such as the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, and the introduction of new environmental laws. it also emerges from different estimates by the european commission that some of our decisions to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 would already be met if existing laws were respected. so my question to the commission is: what concrete steps are being taken to check the implementation of existing laws? another question concerns the risk assessment of genetically modified organisms. it is in the commission's work programme. my question is: what improvements is the commission trying to make in this area? we know from many discussions that this is also a major point of criticism of our work and legislation in this area.
in writing. although bulgaria and romania have managed to join the european economic area, brussels seems surprised by the lack of progress in the fight against organised crime and corruption. this is a widespread problem in post-communist countries, which is due to socio-political developments. the population complains about the anonymity and coldness of capitalism and prefers to use old and proven networks. this is further proof that social change cannot be imposed from outside - as the us is trying to do with wars of aggression and the eu with the bait of 'accession'. the eu must not repeat this mistake with turkey, because once the countries are in the club, the latter will lose its effectiveness and there will be no more room for influence.
in writing. for too long, the eu has been providing financial support to countries around the world without linking this funding to the readmission of illegal immigrants, thereby fuelling the storm of illegal economic refugees without education and without future prospects in the country of destination. together with various visa scandals, which saw countless people disguised as tourists in the eu enter the low-wage sector, this led to the destruction of massive jobs. it is therefore high time that take-backs were made a fixed part of the contract. the disappearance of the anonymity of urban agglomerations must also be prevented at all costs. the commission has also been active in the field of the protection of the environment, and has recently launched a new programme for the protection of the environment. this practice must not in any case lead to the arbitrary issuing of visas there, simply to avoid a lock-up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i said what i had to say during the explanations of vote to save time during the vote. i am glad that parliament has voted overwhelmingly in favour of the report, partly because i know that there are very intense and intensive discussions going on in the council working groups, and we are sending a clear message from this house. this report is an opportunity to have good data in the field of health, safety and health at work. this will be a prerequisite for many of the policies we will be calling for in the future.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not we too are glad that the iron curtain, which the communists have drawn across europe in contempt for half a century, has finally fallen. i say this as an austrian, for whom the way is now open to the neighbouring peoples, the czechs, slovaks, hungarians and slovenes, as it was a hundred years ago. however, i think i can criticise the fact that it is by no means sufficient for the schengen information system to function when a decision of this magnitude is involved. i think that the new guards at the external borders must now be able to do their job. considering that some eu states in east-central europe were still important transit countries in 2006 and that the numbers of illegal immigrants at the former schengen borders, in austria and germany, were far higher than at the eu's external borders, these concerns cannot be avoided. still, it's nice to finally see the iron curtain as a thing of the past.
madam president, mr president, the council of ministers! the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. what happens in africa directly affects europe. the migration flows from the crisis areas south of the mediterranean directly flow into the mediterranean countries of southern europe and, of course, affect the whole of europe. africa is a continent rich in talented people, and our wisdom and africa's wisdom dictates that we harness the potential in africa and for africa. this partnership, which is being pursued with africa and the european union, holds a huge opportunity. the proposal to be made by the european union is a demanding one. it ranges from self-help assistance in the areas of security, trade, good governance, stabilisation programmes with help to fight crime, job and training creation, the provision of micro-credit, to information campaigns on the possibilities of legal immigration and all the consequences of illegal immigration and measures to combat illegal immigration. but the european union should also make demands at the next summit. one of the requirements would be that we have readmission agreements with all the countries of the southern mediterranean before we start all our action programmes, because everything is interrelated and it is all about partnership. i share the commissioner's view that it is now about partnership and not just cooperation, about offering complex packages. europe is ready to do so, the commission supports it, parliament supports it, but we can invite africa to use these offers in the interests of the stabilization of north africa and the security of the citizens of europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the its group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu's interest in citizens is still limited by the difficulty of identifying clear structures, the difficulty of making decisions that are not easily understood, and the lack of media interest. the european parties that currently exist have hardly been able to reduce this deficit, and it is still unclear whether they are even capable of responding to the citizens' desire for more participation. i think that this can only be achieved by more direct democracy. the european parliament has been a key player in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is the commission's duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the future of the union. in these circumstances, european parties and their foundations will certainly not lead to increased eu euphoria, but if they improve the debate at european level and the communication and can bring together citizens' interests, we have at least achieved something. in any case, their financing must be clear, transparent and, in my view, subject to independent scrutiny.
the commission has already done so. it has been said that only a small percentage of the union funds has been made available for the northern part of cyprus. what about the obligations the north would have to meet? are there not delays there too? just a side question about our colleague here. the terminology he used is not that of the bicommunity, but here we are talking about two independent states when we speak at ministerial level, when we speak at the level of presidents and colleagues. is that helpful for the discussion?
we all hope, commissioner, that the status issue will be settled on 10 december. the question is, what if there is no clarification? how do you assess the risk situation for the whole region? what would be the solutions, alternative concepts, if this agreement were not to be reached on 10 december?
on 21 december, the schengen border between italy and austria is expected to open up to slovenia by one country. does this issue play a role in the context of the opening of a chapter in the accession negotiations on a common area of freedom, security and justice? does it really make sense to build large new external borders here, which then have to be demolished a few years later?
i'm not going to tell you. we are talking about a very sensitive issue when it comes to the education or further education of children of illegal immigrants. but we also know that, conversely, trafficking organizations are not shy about any method. do you not see a danger in sending children to follow their parents in the path of family reunification, thus simply accelerating illegal immigration by this detour? i welcome the fact that children are not allowed to be affected here, but i see the risk that this could further encourage illegal immigration.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i still remember the earthquake in friuli 30 years ago, when over 3,000 people died. the images of the destruction wrought in a matter of seconds and the race against time to rescue the injured from the rubble will never be forgotten. the european parliament's attention to this important issue is therefore particularly welcome. without the tireless efforts of relief workers - including volunteers from neighbouring countries - such an earthquake disaster is difficult to cope with, and only rapid relief can help. however, there is little cooperation in the eu on earthquake risk research and no unified mechanism for crisis intervention. binding rules for cross-border cooperation are necessary and cooperation with first aid organisations must be strengthened. i welcome the fact that the eurocode 8 standards are to be incorporated into the urban planning regulations of vulnerable countries. at present, there is no legal basis for the assessment of important building structures in most european countries, but it is buildings which need to remain intact and functional in an emergency that should be given special protection. the evaluation of important buildings is to be included as a key element in the regional programmes. in conclusion, i would like to take this opportunity to express my respect for the reconstruction that the people have carried out. they are an example that even in the face of total destruction, the hope for a better future is in our own strength. the rapporteur should therefore be expressly thanked for his work.
i have to say, madam president, the european union is well prepared for globalisation, said my predecessor, alexander radwan. but the globalization of the new order has been going on for eighteen years now! and we are sliding directly from the trap of globalization - the "was" and "was", this relegation of the broad mass of wealth and the attack on democracy - into the trap of europe, because the sinfall of politics at that time was the failure of a reasonable treaty of nice. it was prematurely enlarged rather than deepened. that is why the bureaucracy, the waste of billions and - yes - the wrong political recruitment of elites in europe are now at the heart of the problem. the commissioner, mr verheugen, is a prime example of this. the unspeakable personal attacks against you began when you tried to bring the bureaucracy under control. now there's a new one to be sawed back in the chair, we'll see what he does with the bureaucracy. it's not gonna work like this! if we fail to do so, the union's political capacity to act will continue to be paralysed and we will fail to meet the challenges of globalisation.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, we speak about frozen conflicts. we mention two conflicts – abkhazia and south ossetia – but i would like, on behalf of my group, to introduce after ‘frozen conflict’ the phrase ‘such as transnistria’, so that transnistria is also mentioned in recital o.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you made the announcement just now, when i was clapping, like many other colleagues, mr jean-marie le pen made the following hand gesture directly to me, in the sense of 'fuck you'. i'm gonna need you to check that with the video recording. i think that's a point where we really have to draw some conclusions. i find it outrageous that a person in such a state should behave violently towards me.
in writing. humanitarian aid is often very difficult to provide because of adverse circumstances or security concerns. this makes good coordination and coordination of aid operations all the more important. but these efforts must not be misused to further inflate the eu institutions, nor can an eu civil protection agency or an eu response force provide effective protection against natural disasters. the court of auditors also criticised yesterday the 'significant error rate' of the 5.2 billion euro spent by the eu on food aid, humanitarian aid and co-financing of non-governmental organisations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. all austrian epp meps are in favour of ambitious soil protection, but it must be at the right political level. we consider the proposal, the report, to be a clear breach of subsidiarity, and that is why we voted against a great many of the amendments and against the report as a whole. despite the excellent work done by the rapporteur, mrs gutiérrez, who has drawn a lot of fangs from the proposal, we believe that this report goes far beyond what is offered at eu level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. it should also be noted that the member states are responsible for the financing of the programmes.
in writing. the schengen acquis is a sensitive area in particular, and we must be able to react to any developments. organised smugglers are always looking for new loopholes to flood the eu with migrants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the first step is to ensure that the member states concerned have effective control of the protection of the external borders. i have rejected the cashman report because i think there are still serious doubts.
in writing. 70% of the european population rejects genetic engineering, and in austria the fear of toxic residues in food is even greater than that of terrorist attacks or bird flu. in addition to the suspicion of a link between increasing health problems and genetically modified organisms, evidence is mounting that the use of genetic engineering is wreaking havoc and leaving farmers dependent on international corporations.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to join in the many congratulations to the rapporteur on this good, factual report, which also received a good majority in the committee on climate change. it is clear that we want results and a clear mandate for bali. this involves a shared and differentiated responsibility of the developed, emerging and developing countries. the resolution also makes it clear that we expect results by 2009. and we as the european parliament must also send very clear political messages to the rest of the world, to the other continents, in the legislative acts we are going to adopt - it has already been mentioned today: the inclusion of air transport in the emissions trading scheme, but also in co2 emissions from motor vehicles. this will be a key condition for getting all countries on board.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question is whether the developments in georgia show that the neighbourhood policy has failed. i mean, not that. they show that perhaps the neighbourhood policy needs to be further developed, because some of what happened there was to be expected. the successes and positive aspects of the rose revolution in georgia have been clouded in recent months and years by some authoritarian decisions that have interfered with the legal system. the social situation has led to these unrest and i hope that we are now strong enough to work with president saakashvili to ensure that there is dialogue, that there are transparent and open elections with freedom of expression and that there are genuine democratic decisions. a second reason why the neighbourhood policy needs to be strengthened is certainly the whole debate on further enlargement. we now intend to discuss, negotiate and conclude enlargement with the countries of south-eastern europe and with turkey. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the european union is not a mere political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. but this strong connection must exist. the third reason has already been mentioned. i believe that - if you will forgive the expression - abstract ideas such as the mediterranean union, which draws a line across the european union, as president sarkozy said yesterday at the conference of presidents, the other member states of the eu can ask for observer status, and should and must be prevented by having a common neighbourhood policy and by strengthening relations together. the vision is to have an eu-black sea community and an eu-mediterranean community, but it is always the european union as a whole that must maintain and strengthen these relations with its neighbours. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! my question fits into that concept, but it goes a little bit in a different direction. i think - and you were right - that the public has a great deal to say about issues like these. on the other hand - and you have referred to the legal situation - is it really correct that we now have a legislative or a contractual competence within the european union for all the issues that affect anyone in the european union deeply? or should we not also exercise a little restraint here?
thank you very much, and i'm sorry i spoke so quickly. i didn't want to overstay my welcome. i think it is important that we address these concerns if they are of concern to the european people. on the other hand, we should also be aware of the legal limits of the union and respect them, as far as we are able, in a very conscious way. the way you have proposed seems to me to be a more interesting one, but we should not expose ourselves to the reproach of the union claiming to be responsible for all world affairs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to join in the warm thanks to our rapporteur, mrs lynne. social protection and social inclusion help to combat poverty and exclusion, including healthcare and much more, and are among the most important challenges for the future. the concept of minimum income is often discussed in my member state in different ways. i fully support mrs stauner's approach to employment, fulltime work and income. the strong anchoring of the social partnership in austria gives us a great opportunity, and this is why we are always trying to find a solution in agreement with all the parties involved. this also means that strikes are less frequent than in other eu countries, where strikes are often part of the agenda. this is why we must look very closely at the regulation at eu level. the different national social systems mean that we must be very careful about standardizing. we must be concerned to provide social protection for all workers and to enable them to be integrated into society. it must also be possible that, within the framework of subsidiarity, member states should, should and can have higher standards.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my delegation, the austrian social democrats, abstained on the report on the bali conference for the very reason that mrs korhola has mentioned. we support the other political messages in this report. the report is very good. my delegation cannot support sending the signal that nuclear power is an essential element in combating climate change. i also think that it should be left to the countries and continents themselves to decide what strategy they will adopt. i would like to emphasize once again the support of my delegation for all the elements of this report, including the exclusion of nuclear power projects from the clean development mechanism. but we did not want to carry this political signal of nuclear power. that is why we abstained. to show that we agree with the other parts of the overall good report, we did not vote against it.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. under the german presidency of the council, the sanctions against uzbekistan were eased at the explicit instigation of the german federal government on the condition that the karimov government should improve the human rights situation in the country. torture continues in uzbek prisons, and the human rights situation in uzbekistan has not improved. this is what we hear from international organisations who are monitoring the dramatic attacks on civil society. it is not just human rights organisations that are affected, but also women's organisations, information centres and many other organisations. human rights activists are sentenced to long prison terms, many activists have had to flee, including journalists. we must not relax the sanctions, we must not lift them! we are seeing once again that we hear different discourses about human rights here in this parliament when it comes to access to raw materials, as opposed to when it is not at stake. we must send a clear signal that we will not accept this!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am proud to be a member of this house, which has been an advocate of fundamental and civil rights and this charter from day one. it is nine years since the initiative was taken at the cologne summit and the road to a legally binding charter is not yet complete. as someone who was able to follow the whole constitutional process, i can relate two experiences. the first is very strange: nothing in these nine years has been so difficult to achieve, so laborious, so controversial, as the self-evident, as the foundations of the union: democracy, parliamentary rights, social rights, the market economy, the openness of legislation and also fundamental rights and freedoms. and this strange fact must have something to do with the causes of the crisis of confidence in the european union. the second experience is that it makes sense not to get tired and not to get disappointed, that it makes sense not to get discouraged, and that it confirms my old view that sisyphus is the patron saint of europe. i therefore believe that we should make another attempt today - on this very day - and appeal once again to poland and the united kingdom, in the name of the indivisibility of fundamental rights, in the name of the indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, to join this great european consensus!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad, as are - unfortunately - almost all my predecessors, that today or tomorrow we will be giving the president of this house the power to sign the charter. human rights are our european trademark, both inside and outside. nevertheless, i caution against taking too much in the mouth in the heat of the moment. with the charter and the necessary ratification of the treaty of lisbon, we are making important classical fundamental rights and important social fundamental rights legally binding, both for the institutions of the union and for the application of community law. we are also making it possible for these fundamental rights to go to the european court of justice in luxembourg under very restrictive conditions. this does not mean that every citizen can immediately or even at all bring a case before the european court of justice as a plaintiff, as is sometimes claimed by some in the excess of emotion. but we are doing the cause a disservice by making such claims. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in our union we can now be proud of important developments, not only in the traditional sense but also in terms of social policy: reconciliation of family and work, the prohibition of child labour, health protection for all and a high level of environmental and consumer protection. we should rejoice in that, and then it is enough to stick to that truth!
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. europe has much to offer to help us all to make our lives and our economies better. unfortunately, almost all of these good intentions have difficult words to pronounce. this is particularly true of one of the priorities in today's railway package. interoperability is the magic word that describes what we want to achieve, what we must achieve if we really want to have a working railway system in europe. the locomotives and other rolling stock must be adapted to each other. we need well-coordinated admission procedures. the commission has put forward a proposal to this effect, and we have developed it further in parliament with the agreement of all the political families. we hope that the result, together with the tsis, technical specifications for interoperability and beyond, will help us to achieve a better coordinated rail transport in the common europe. our system is based on the idea and principle of mutual recognition and technical harmonisation, sets clear deadlines and criteria for approvals and requires, very importantly, that in the event of a refusal, the national safety authority must prove the safety risk, and not the other way around. we demand and hope that the many tasks assigned to the european railway agency in this context will then be carried out by it as quickly and efficiently as possible. i can only hope that what my colleague, mr georg jarzembowski, has mentioned will actually become a reality, namely that at the end of the procedure and in the course of the procedure in the common europe and on this subject we will have less bureaucracy than we have at present. we are confident that our proposals will achieve a broad consensus in the house when they are put to the vote, so that there will be more interoperability.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter. it is therefore clear that on 14 november this year at 3 p.m. mr rømer was travelling from the european parliament to the centre of strasbourg in a luxembourg cd-rom. sparrows were run over, and the pace was hellish on the allee de la robertsau. slow vehicles were being squeezed past in lines of snakes, and terrified pedestrians were backing away from the zebra crossing. the speed is said to have been more than 100 kilometres per hour in the city of strasbourg. so i would ask mr rømer: were you travelling in this vehicle at the time indicated? who was driving? what instructions did you give and what did you not? why did the vehicle behave like a dangerous traffic roadie? why was the speed limit exceeded so dramatically? do you think the traffic laws don't apply to you? do you not think that as the highest official of the european parliament you should be expected to show special consideration and to behave properly in traffic? how do you intend to behave in this respect in future and now have all road users to fear you?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the schengen agreement and the increasingly brutal nature of criminal gangs undoubtedly call for a stronger response to illegal gun ownership and organised crime. but the whole thing becomes a farce when unscrupulous citizens, hunters and sports shooters are equated with criminals. instead, the top priority should be to reinforce the police force that has been reduced in recent years. in britain, crime statistics have exploded since the total ban on handguns. i think that should give us something to think about. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. the majority of crimes are not committed with legally acquired weapons. the eu should perhaps focus on better border protection, for example by increasing frontex funds, and on improving security cooperation. the eu countries have a functioning right to bear arms at all times, and if any tightening is desired or necessary, the decisions should be taken by the countries concerned.
mr president, i would just like to point out to mrs mccarthy that firearms are prohibited in parliament.
mr president, i would just like to ask mrs mccarthy whether the weapon she is carrying is marked and registered and whether she has permission to have it here in parliament.
in writing. the last few years have shown that european tourism, like any other economic sector, is strongly influenced by global conditions. to successfully meet these challenges, enhanced coordination of national policies is needed. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, member states must use the possibilities at eu level to complement existing national policies. the eu can thus effectively help to reduce red tape and barriers in the tourism sector through harmonisation. our aim must be to use existing resources efficiently and to exploit all the synergies to strengthen the eu's global competitiveness and create more jobs. an important step in this context would be to simplify visa procedures and reduce the cost of tourist visas in all eu countries. i also call on the eu to adopt uniform quality standards for hotel accommodation in europe, in order to increase transparency and at the same time strengthen consumer rights. this should not lead to a levelling of national quality standards, but should be an important signal to consumers. in this sense, the eu must use its existing capacities to actively support individual member states, without, however, calling into question existing national competences.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, the situation as regards the union’s financial management is mixed. i welcome the efforts made by the commission as regards agriculture. the court reports a marked overall reduction in errors in agricultural expenditure. that should be welcomed as a major success. on the other hand, there is little positive said about the structural funds. the court is of the opinion that control systems in the member states are generally ineffective or moderately effective. that is why parliament’s call for national management declarations as an instrument to improve national accountability is more relevant than ever. i am also very disappointed that the internal control system within the commission is still not all it should be, seven years after the reform. there are significant weaknesses, and i welcome the court’s solid analysis in chapter two of its annual report. let us look to the future. the court has proposed interinstitutional discussions on the concept of ‘tolerable risk of error’. i welcome that initiative. parliament and the commission have already, in different ways, given some follow-up to this proposal. when will the council – which is not present today – give its view on this? the reform treaty states that: ‘the regulations shall lay down the control and audit obligations of the member states in the implementation of the budget and the resulting responsibilities.’ parliament will carefully follow the implementation of that new rule. as regards the union’s audit arrangements, i am not going to repeat what i said in luxembourg on 18 october 2007. i just want to stress that parliament is very interested in the outcome of the ongoing peer review at the court. i congratulate mr weber, and in particular mr engwirda, for having been able to start that exercise.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the rule of law, democracy, objective control based on the principle of equality would be a bulwark against arbitrariness. but that's what's missing here. the present annual report of the european court of auditors can, however, help to turn some things around. i would like to make a specific reference here to what has been finally and gratefully stated in paragraphs 10.9 to 10.12 inclusive, under your responsibility, mr weber. this is a slap in the face to the european parliament. it is stated that the members' own control of expenditure is extremely inadequate, that there is a great deal that is not done. what does this mean in practice? the fact that you, mr president, mr secretary-general of this house, have chosen unpleasant people, mr herbert bösch, made a cowardly complaint to olaf, then investigated for years, and then found out that there is nothing, there is no fraud, nothing. but here, where there is really something to be found - you yourself say, mr weber, that only 22% of cases have been dealt with properly - you do not look. and this is arbitrary. it is known in this house - and the president and secretary-general rømer are aware of this - that at least 80 million euros in expenditure by members of parliament is not adequately covered. why is there no investigation, why are there no appropriate steps, why are there constantly delays? what is happening here - and i say again, i thank the court of auditors for putting their finger on it - is leading to a system of arbitrariness and to the fact that this cannot seriously be called a parliament. and then they run, the ones responsible. this is not the way. i ask parliament and you at the court of auditors to look into these cases and find a solution. because there's a lot of real fraud in there.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am used to mr martin in this house, but i am not used to the term 'fighting complaint'. i would be very glad if that could be made clear, because i think mr martin is the last person who has the right to make such accusations in the chamber.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the last night's sitting mrs mccarthy had a gun here in parliament. i would like to ask who gave permission for a weapon to be brought into this chamber.
mr president, since there were also social reasons for the recent events, we should at least have a neutral reference to these. my oral amendment would therefore read: ‘whereas georgia’s economic and social reforms should raise the standard of living of the wider population’.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last friday, more than 70 000 signatures for a stricter law on the transport of animals were presented to the president of the austrian parliament, barbara prammer. a citizens' initiative was formed by a very small number of people, coordinated by a compatriot of mine, mr helmut schaupensteiner, and supported by a very dedicated journalist, mrs maggie entenfeller. they managed to get these 70,000 signatures in a very short time. i fully support this initiative and the 70 000 signatures show that the people are no longer willing to let these intolerable conditions go unchallenged. i therefore consider it my duty as a member of the european parliament to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, of this great contribution of the initiative against animal transport and to call on all of us to do something here to ensure that these things which are happening on europe's roads today cannot happen again in the future.
in writing. to protect the environment effectively, eu policies must take greater account of the world's oceans, and in particular those of europe. this marine strategy framework directive responds to the challenges posed by climate change and provides for action by both the eu and the member states. the first step towards taking appropriate action at european level is to establish a common set of criteria for the environmental status of the seas. the directive also requires member states to achieve good environmental status by 2017 and to adopt the necessary regulations. in the spirit of the report, i call on the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that marine pollution can be detected and traced, so that the polluter pays principle can be applied. the eu's existing efforts to store co2 on the seabed need to be strengthened as an innovative contribution to the fight against climate change. however, existing pilot projects must be critically assessed, particularly in terms of their efficiency and potential consequences. to tackle climate change effectively, we must not close ourselves off to innovation, but integrate it into a broad eu environmental policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the increase in respiratory diseases, particularly among children, the elderly and the sick, and the increase in allergic respiratory problems is directly linked to the traffic avalanche that is sweeping through our conurbations and along our main routes every day. the failure of the eu's policy of encouraging long-distance transport over the last few decades is particularly evident in the long-distance transport sector. as we know, it has not yet been possible to put the fine words of the past into practice in the case of particularly sensitive regions such as the alps, for example by implementing the alpine convention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the first priority is therefore to replace very quickly the main sources of pollution emissions, such as commercial vehicles with aging diesel engines.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased that we have reached agreement so quickly here and in all the groups on this important matter. air quality is central to the well-being and health of our citizens. i am also very pleased that we have set strict limit values, in particular new limit values for pm2.5, which are particularly dangerous for health. unfortunately, in some other areas, the tightening that i would have liked has not been achieved. this concerns pm10 and, of course, the nox sector. but what worries me more than the limit values we have now set is the actual air situation in the member states at the moment. as you all know, almost all member states exceed the current limits. it will therefore really be up to us now to implement this ambitious package of legislation and it will also be up to the commission to monitor this. the commission has not yet initiated infringement proceedings, although there have been persistent cases of overruns. so on the one hand, there must be a clean implementation, but on the other hand, there must also be concrete action by the commission if member states are still unable or unwilling to comply with the limit values. it is also important that we have found common criteria for measurement. the practice here varies widely from one member state to another. as regards transport - one of the main sources of air pollution in my own country - it must be said that here too the commission is not prepared to support actions taken by countries to comply with air quality limit values. i would like to ask the commission to support and not hinder member states in their ambitions to achieve clean air. we have a very strong increase in trans-alpine traffic, and something must be done about air here too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the face of the resurgence of ethnic conflicts, which have been excessively manifested in recent riots in paris, it is gratifying that the eu finally seems to be waking up from its multicultural dreams and asking questions about ethnicity and religion in an eu-wide census in 2011. it is essential to collect these data in order to better assess the potential risks in this respect. cultural differences can - as we have seen more and more recently - escalate all too easily. in this respect, we are in europe - where some countries have proudly declared themselves to be immigrant countries - and in the big urban centres, in particular, we are on a powder keg that should not be underestimated. the recent clashes between the kurds and the turks have, as we know, necessitated a massive police presence in our cities. statistical data on the ethnic and cultural composition of the resident population could thus be highly necessary and beneficial for violence prevention.
mr president, this is the house. it is a pity that it takes a dead body to deal with the question of fire safety in hotels. we all know that the different approaches to building regulations in the member states and regions make it difficult to achieve effective fire protection at european level. i am convinced that this problem can only be solved if there are binding requirements for compliance with fire safety standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, it must be borne in mind that technical measures always involve financial expenditure. this can represent a very large, often insurmountable financial burden for small and medium-sized hotels. in this case, member states should support fire prevention measures through subsidies in order to guarantee the best possible safety for the guest. in conclusion, i would like to say that i do not believe that the solution for the majority of hotels in europe, all of which are small and medium-sized, can be found only in negotiations with the industrial complex - that is, the large corporations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i should like to thank our rapporteur for having tried everything humanly possible to bring about this compromise. since the first presentation of a commission document on the reform of the wine market and in today's debate we have seen that wine is one of the most sensitive products of agriculture, one of the most elegant, but also one of the most emotional. i think that the european parliament, and here in particular the committee on agriculture, has succeeded in taking a sensible approach with the compromise package we have put forward: for example, the traditional oenological practices in the member states, which are clarified on the basis of the differences in european wine culture, and - and this is particularly important to me - that table wines are not awarded the same distinctions as quality wines. it is essential that designations of origin continue to exist. this is not only in the interests of the winegrowers, but also, and above all, in the interests of the consumers. the maintenance of the enrichment limits strengthens traditional viticulture in central europe. the different climatic, geographical and structural conditions for european viticulture must be taken into account. as an austrian, i know how necessary certain measures are. but i am against compulsory grubbing up, because we must monitor closely what wine is consumed by consumers and where we have the chance to increase consumption. the savings - and this is also my concern - that we are achieving with the reform must remain in the first pillar and continue to benefit viticulture in some form and the winegrowers. in conclusion, i think that the committee on agriculture has succeeded in presenting a coherent and sensible package, and i hope that in the vote tomorrow we in parliament will send a clear signal to the council and the commission that we want wine to continue to have a future in europe.
the commission has already done so. the wine industry has, as we have heard today, a centuries-old tradition. we have been working for decades to improve quality, and with great success, which i can say as an austrian about my country - and especially about my region, burgenland. this includes the use of sucrose as needed. the fact that we have to improve the sugar content of wine with concentrated grape must from other regions would mean that we would have to influence and even change the character of the wines of our region. we certainly cannot agree with that, and neither would any of our winegrowers who have worked for years to achieve high quality standards. it is not possible that the addition of sucrose should be abolished and replaced by concentrated grape must in order to compensate for the very costly crisis distillation. i am therefore in favour of supporting the old compromise package, so that we can also maintain regional characteristics and regional cultures in wine!
in writing. although many reactor accidents have occurred years ago, we are still paying the price for past mistakes. in the immediate aftermath of disasters, such things as wild meat, berries, and mushrooms are temporarily removed from the diet, only to reappear at some point. it is important to set restrictive maximum levels here, but studies on the effects of radiation on humans are still lacking, as is the still young field of genetic engineering. the eu must immediately devote itself to these important and urgent impact studies, prepare for an exit from nuclear energy and leave the decision on the use of genetic engineering to the member states themselves. i have abstained because the points raised in the report have not been sufficiently taken into account.
in writing. the case of mohammed teddy has once again shown us how quickly one can get into trouble abroad. so it doesn't always have to be a natural disaster, an accident, or a loss of passport, it's enough of a cultural misunderstanding. we have a lot of work to do in this area. in the accession country turkey, for example, it can be dangerous to live as a foreign traveller, since - as a recent study shows - the constantly promoted improved protection of minorities exists only on paper and the actual situation has worsened. so, on the one hand, we need to build a meaningful network of diplomatic missions that can serve as lifelines for our citizens, and on the other hand, we need to ensure that they are not only aware of the tasks of ambassadors, but also that they can contact the embassy of any eu member state. i have therefore supported the proposed action plan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at the heart of a politics without 'ism' is credibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxpayer is able to use the money he has earned in the past to finance his own activities. unfortunately, this budget again does not make clear how much is actually spent on administration. we have a 6.6 billion euro item in it, but there are also hidden administrative expenditure in many other areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a strikingly negative example within the european union, and that is the pension system for civil servants, including those in this house who participate in the luxury supplementary pensions. but for civil servants, the total now amounts to 963 million euros a year, with civil servants themselves contributing only a maximum of one third. and it's going up and up. an increase of 5.5% is expected in the number of pensioners alone. the inflation rate is automatically taken into account. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. this would be a starting point for a sensible reform of the budget and a call to you, commissioner, to do something about it.
it will be very important in the wto negotiations to negotiate the chapter under which bioethanol will actually fall in the future. will this fall under the agricultural sector or does it fall under the non-agricultural sector? how does the commission see the structures in the future? will it try to negotiate this more within the framework of the agricultural chapter, or is it more of an industrial chapter? bioethanol grows in the fields and is in itself a raw material for agriculture. on the other hand, it is an energy product and therefore part of the market access for non-agricultural products (nama). is there any opinion in the commission and what direction are the negotiations taking?
i'm not going to tell you. when my constituency discusses energy trade, energy policy, the european commission, the new treaty and, in particular, the wto, the fear always arises: we will then have to import nuclear energy - we cannot help it - and we may even have to build nuclear power stations if things continue like this! please reassure me that this will not be the case and give some reason for this so that i can pass it on.
mr vice president! you've almost answered my supplementary question. but since nothing is clearer than a clear word in the mother tongue, i would very much like to hear you repeat in german what you have said, namely that the commission does not want to confine itself as the master planner of europe to every issue, especially not when it comes to a specific urban model. as rapporteur for the green paper on a new culture of urban mobility, which you have also cited, i can assure you that parliament will certainly follow you in this path of supporting diversity.
i too would like to congratulate the commissioner on her election as commissioner of the year. but we have a very important task to perform in this area. on the one hand, there are the public television stations, which have received a lot of money for their content and have therefore also produced proper educational programmes. on the other hand, mobile television, so-called mobile tv, is now increasingly available to citizens. what is your opinion of the developments in this field?
i'm not going to tell you. for motor vehicles, defined peak values are considered as limit values. the fact that the average values are taken as limit values on railway vehicles means that extreme loads are assumed along the railway lines, because the limit is not exceeded on average. does the commission intend to adopt similar measures to those for motor vehicles in order to ensure relief for the train drivers concerned along railway lines in the future?
i'm not going to tell you. i would like to ask you a question on this subject which has been troubling me for a long time. i am a member of some of these organizations myself. but i have been asking myself more and more recently: how democratically do such organizations function, and is the commission checking whether these ngos are democratic organizations with internal elections, or whether they are organizations that operate on an incomprehensible command principle and are not accountable to their members or anyone else, so that under certain circumstances funds could go somewhere where they are not supposed to go?
the commission has rightly pointed out that the enforcement of legislation is at least as important as its adoption. we have a case you haven't mentioned. it is the fact that in one country criminal law is established and then this garbage or this waste is taken to another country. in reality, the question is whether two member states are likely to be in breach of the treaty. is there any consideration of this?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. at the end of such a report - and the end seems to be near - i would like to take this opportunity to thank very warmly the colleagues who have supported me in this work for over a year and a half now. i would like to thank in particular mr becsey, mr degutis, mrs lichtenberger and mr kohlíček, the commission for their strong support and our secretariat, in particular mr vervloet. it was very interesting that in these one and a half years, the colleagues had become really good friends through their work together. this is also reflected in the outcome of this report. thank you very much. the report itself is a paradox in european airspace. on the one hand, european airspace is completely liberalised for industry and airlines, but on the other hand, there are still 27 different air traffic control authorities with 27 different regulations and ideas. the result is that the airspace over europe has not become safer, but less safe. it has led to certain lines trying to do a kind of license shopping, trying to get their licenses where it's easier, where the rules might not be as strictly enforced. the result has been that there have been many, many small incidents, some accidents and some disasters in the skies of europe. the idea behind this report was - and i fully share this idea - to create uniform rules in the field of air operations, the certification of aircraft and aircraft parts and also the licensing of pilots, not only uniform rules but also to ensure that these uniform rules are then implemented in a uniform manner. that was the commission's original intention and the european parliament followed that intention by a large majority. the commission has also been working on the development of the european social model. we wanted this european aviation safety agency to be more efficient, to be able to act faster and to be able to react better to things. the european parliament has called for the management board of the european aviation safety agency, which still reflects in part the national interests of the member states and the national agencies, to be given a more independent role. the second idea was that given that easa has only two options to deal with errors and problems up to now, namely to do nothing and to withdraw the entire licence, intermediate steps had to be found. and the third - and this was the most important - thought was that one part of the personnel currently working in aviation, and in particular those responsible for safety, namely the cabin crew, was until now the only part in the whole aviation sector that had not been certified, and that this needed to be changed. what did you do? improvements were made to the management board, with its members now reporting to the relevant committee in the european parliament. it has also succeeded in introducing a system of penalties which allows the european aviation safety agency to react flexibly to certain situations and not to use either the so-called nuclear option or nothing at all. and above all, we have found a way to ensure that cabin crew are licensed in the future. this means that training, security and all the things that go with it will be of a uniformly high standard. it has succeeded in producing a report which is accepted by virtually all. the industry was satisfied, the trade union was satisfied, the workers were satisfied, our house was satisfied and all the member states were satisfied with this report, except a few. but the most important thing that has been achieved is that in the future there will be more safety for passengers on europe's airplanes. that is the most important thing we could have achieved, and we have achieved it. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr leichtfried. he's been very cooperative and has kept us informed. that was a good starting point. the subject was only superficially a purely technical bureaucratic one. it was clear that, as so often, this was a battle of many individual interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the different standards of inspection must come to an end, and we must finally have an instrument - a powerful one - to really implement and enforce the blacklist regime, including third country aircraft. we have seen in a hearing that the planes on the blacklist cause many more accidents than all the others. it was therefore clear that the european regulation was also very useful here. we all hope, of course, that we can now move forward just as quickly on the question of the airspace block, which is still very much failing the interests of individual member states, which is extremely unfortunate and ultimately also a great disservice to the reduction of emissions in air transport. one of the most difficult questions was whether there should be sanctions or fines. yes, unfortunately, unfortunately, in our world, we can't do without it! we have seen that we need intermediate measures to be efficient. they've been created now. i am very pleased that we have now found a good arrangement, which was overdue. the recognition of this profession must continue, and the task of the future will also be to reduce emissions and make aviation a little less harmful to the climate than it is now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european sky, which has been invoked time and again, is still far from being a truly common airspace even after more than 50 years of the european community. the member states are still not in principle prepared to give up their airspace in favour of a common europe or at least to share it with europe. but there is also a lack of common european law on many technical details. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of aircraft, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the safety of aircraft in the single european sky. the commission has put forward a balanced proposal. the committee on transport and its rapporteur have, we hope, improved it. the council has succeeded in agreeing this report in the course of the procedure, so that we can now, i hope, take it up at second reading tomorrow. finally, i would also like to thank the rapporteur - as many colleagues have done before me - for his good work. mr leichtfried has done a very good job with his shadows. i would like to remind you, however, that there is still a lot of work to be done. we have discussed many open questions yesterday and today on the subject of air safety. i hope we will be able to reach a consensus on the key questions still open there, including, but not limited to, the financing and comitology of the liquid funds. we need such a consensus on this if we are to actually not only dream of this dream of a common european open sky, but also make it a reality.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commissioner! thank you very much for your comments. it was very interesting to hear what you told us about the course and timetable. the question of what will be on the table in june is not only central to the alpine region. i think that's obviously familiar and important to you as a man in the mountains, as you've called yourself. it is important for all roads, for all countries and for all neighbours who have a high proportion of heavy traffic on their roads and especially on their roads. the enormous cost of these transport flows is a huge burden for the member states most affected. this burden is more than doubled by the external costs - and this is what many studies already known say. this must be taken into account and it is necessary that it be incorporated much more fully into the commission's action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a move. but we won't need them for another 20 years, when every last lobbyist is convinced. we cannot wait until the environmental impact of the bicycle has been calculated, but we must act now. we need a proposal for a regulation in 2008, we need the debate on it, and we need to have this debate now and not 20 years from now, when the latter will still have to be convinced by states that are often not as affected by the problem as the central states in the european union. commissioner, the mountains need your help. the sensitive areas, such as towns and other protected areas, need a written regulation that clearly states what can be charged. the member states can no longer bear this burden alone and they should not have to bear the environmental damage alone for long.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it has been said: you called yourself a man of the mountains in the debate on the eurovignette, and you have - at any rate in the context of the discussions at the time - fulfilled an important part of that promise. but now we are going to go on to other, probably more important, stages. it is about internalizing external costs, or, to change from the european jargon to a language that people understand, it is about the fact that in the transport sector as a whole we need more cost accuracy, more knowledge about who is causing what costs, and probably also more knowledge about how we involve the cost generators in financing what is done here. you have presented us today with a timetable which, in its essential first elements, restores what you promised at the time. i think that is good and that is something to be appreciated in this form. the next, very important step is missing and this has been mentioned. when will there be a proposal for a legal text which will then require the various users to be true to their cost? and that's a very diverse set of users that are coming into play here. we are very anxious to see whether it will still be possible, and we expect that it will still be possible to do so in the current parliamentary term, because only if we actually put the legal text into effect and share the costs with the polluters will other important investments, which have also been approved through your proposal in the last few weeks and months, make sense. if we invest a lot of money in the construction of the transport tunnel through the brenner, then this only makes sense if there are actually corresponding changes on the mountain route through a change in costs. we are therefore confident that you, as a mountain man, will help us with this important matter.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, you may recall that i was one of those who, in the debate on the last eurovignette, made a very strong demand that the internalisation of external costs should be carried out in the field of trucks. it didn't work. so i'm glad that it's going in that direction. i am not happy because i have been involved in this before, but because i see what has happened in austria in the meantime - in that short time. it is no longer just that the whole of western austria is now being flooded by truck traffic. it is already the case that eastern austria is full of traffic, that some of its roads are no longer passable and that the area around our capital around vienna is actually already completely congested. it is therefore time to incorporate the internalisation of external costs in the trucking sector into the eurovignette as soon as possible. i am aware, of course, that this system must be applied to all modes of transport. but here in the trucking business, we have a regulation. we must now join in, and the others will have to join in, of course. i would like to join those who have asked when a specific legal text will be available. the second point i would like to make is that we should perhaps also consider that this is a european problem and that it will do little good if certain small countries impose high tolls in certain areas. instead, we would have to find a whole system. i wonder whether we should not consider whether, at least on ten sections, minimum tolls would be useful in order to bring about a pan-european shift.
i have to say, madam president, i've never had my name spoken so well by the british interpreters. i just want to take this opportunity to say thank you very much. this is the first time since i have been in this house that it has been spoken exactly. thank you very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not a veteran and have been working on this report for 17 years, but i am very pleased that this compromise will finally allow us to enter a new phase, which the legal affairs committee has prepared, and for which i thank the rapporteur. for consumers, it is of no small importance whether there is, for example, a repair clause, and it is also important whether or not the consumer will continue to be subject to the monopoly policy of large producers in some member states. finally, it seems that the fierce price competition for new cars was offset by high prices for spare parts by some companies, and this was then justified by the protection of designs. this is a possibility which many of the lobbyists who have come to us have not wanted to miss. but then when you say that you have to save the car industry, then someone has not understood the economy in its complexity. the car industry is complaining about climate protection, it's complaining about the lack of design protection. but i think the innovative parts of this industry don't whine, they're innovative. it is, after all, only the protection of design and not patent protection. we must finally learn to differentiate a little more. the safety argument, also put forward by the large producers, was ultimately refuted in the impact assessment and it should also be noted that the european consumer advocates have expressed a positive opinion on this compromise. now there is a new attempt to extend the deadline to eight years for countries which currently enjoy a high level of protection. i appeal to you, five years is more than enough. i don't want to see the compromise package unraveled again. we greens will support this compromise and i think it is very important and very welcome if the house as a whole does so.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! it is the great achievement of the portuguese presidency of the council that the treaty of lisbon is being brought to fruition, certainly with the help of many in this parliament. the lisbon treaty also has the task of strengthening the common european foreign and security policy and providing an institutional basis for it. however, a treaty can only create the conditions, and it is important that the will and the energy to pursue a common foreign and security policy also exist. those who have already mentioned that kosovo is the test case for the will to pursue a common foreign and security policy at the very stage of the signing of the treaty are right. whatever we decide in this region on kosovo will bring problems. there is no third way, as mr cohn-bendit has said, because the third way is already being taken. for some time now, a lot of money and initiative has been pouring into this region. there is only one possibility that kosovo will become independent; then there will be a series of problems in the region. and there is the way that we do not recognize the independence of kosovo; then there will also be a series of problems in this region. it 's clear to me: the principle must be that all the steps that are to be taken in the near future are to be taken jointly by the region and the european union. but this can only be done if there is a common position of the european union on this issue. in my experience - and i have been working for this parliament in this region for ten years now - i see no other chance than that it will move towards a limited, a limited, a monitored independence in the near future. but i believe it would be absolutely intolerable and unacceptable if there were a unilateral declaration on kosovo and we were to follow it in a certain way. many politicians from kosovo are now saying that this process can be carried out together. i saw it in the recent elections there. it can be achieved if the european union follows this common path. i also ask you to ensure that in the final days of this council presidency there is a common european line, that the overall responsibility for this region is shared by all and that all the steps taken in the near future are accompanied by a european union presence in kosovo. this is the most important thing, not the recognition of independence, but a strong presence of the european union in kosovo in the field of security policy is the decisive thing, which the portuguese president of the council must also ensure. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are preparing for the summit and i do not expect any surprises from this summit. but i expect this summit to open doors to the future and to position the european union on many issues. the first door to be opened is the door to ratification of the treaty of lisbon. we expect that ratification will be swift in all member states and that the 2009 european parliament elections will be taken into account in the personnel consequences of this treaty. i also hope that, with the door open to ratification, the council and the commission will finally begin to communicate and inform the member states of the content of the treaty. do not keep silent about why we support the treaty. we say yes because it strengthens citizens, parliaments, democracy and the european union. the second door we open is the door to freedom. the schengen agreement will be discussed. we are glad that more member states are meeting the schengen criteria, because meeting the schengen criteria means more freedom within the european union and more security for the citizens of the european union. thirdly, it will hopefully open the door to a greater responsibility of the european union in the world. i therefore make it clear that the possibility of a solution for kosovo at the negotiating table has been exhausted and that the european union must take joint responsibility for kosovo. we are clearly saying that the future of kosovo and serbia lies in the european union and that we must do everything possible to ensure that the will of the people for freedom and peaceful coexistence is put into practice. my final point is the door to research and technology. implement the galileo decision, which was only possible because the european parliament took its financial responsibility.
i have to say, madam president, in the fight against terrorism we must use all the means of the rule of law that are effective and available. the union must cooperate with partners if it is to succeed. i voted against this resolution because it is anti-american in nature. instead of standing up to terrorism, the author stands up, and many stand up, to partnering with the united states in the fight against terrorism. i also voted against it because the resolution calls on the commission and the council to bring prisoners from guantanamo to europe. it would also mean importing terrorism into europe. it would be a wrong act. there is a third reason why i voted against it: the resolution rejects measures which can be used in the interest of the fight against terrorism, namely an air passenger file also in europe and a strengthening of europol.
in writing. in vintages which are unsuitable for viticulture and lack sunshine, the natural sugar content of the grapes is not sufficient to produce the alcohol required for fermentation. therefore, neutral sugars are added. the key point is that this is done before and not after fermentation, so that sweet wines cannot be made from acidic wines and is only allowed for table and country wines. this is to be continued in the future. the commission's plans to replace the beet sugar used so far with grape must from the southern surplus areas are not understandable. apart from the intense technical discussion on changes in taste, there is also a climate policy aspect to be noted. it is not sensible for me to transport the must across europe to areas where the regional supply of sugar beet is already provided.
in writing. the commission's wine reform proposal seems to have been another success story: on the one hand, it wants to reward the reduction of vineyard area by drying out europe's wine lakes, while on the other hand, from 2013 onwards, it wants to allow planting everywhere. but when the restrictions on cultivation are removed, the costly steep slopes are no longer worth cultivating. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's wine sector is not left to the mercy of the market, and that the commission is not going to be able to take action to ensure that the market is not affected by the increase in the price of wine. if we add to this the deliberate prohibition of the term 'table wine', which would inevitably lead to a flood of wine of the lowest category, we cannot help thinking that the planners of this reform simply lack the necessary expertise and sensitivity. in this respect, the castiglione report is an improvement, which is why i voted for it.
in writing. in vintages which are unsuitable for viticulture and lack sunshine, the natural sugar content of the grapes is not sufficient to produce the alcohol required for fermentation. therefore, neutral sugars are added. the key point is that this is done before and not after fermentation, so that sweet wines cannot be made from acidic wines and is only allowed for table and country wines. this is to be continued in the future. the commission's plans to replace the beet sugar used so far with grape must from the southern surplus areas are not understandable. apart from the intense technical discussion on changes in taste, there is also a climate policy aspect to be noted. it is not sensible for me to transport the must across europe to areas where the regional supply of sugar beet is already provided.
in writing. europe has become increasingly the target of terrorists because it has allowed itself to be degraded into an accomplice of the us foreign policy, which is contrary to international law and human rights, and because it has also failed to act as an honest broker on the palestinian question. the eu must finally recognise that mass immigration from the islamic world is a potential security risk, especially since migration to europe has been given martyr status and the infiltration of the christian west by muslim immigrants has been declared a religious goal. so instead of calling for an immediate halt to immigration from islamic countries and tackling the repatriation of illegal immigrants, the eu is taking a 'cuddle' approach so as not to upset muslims already present. as the present report seems to regard the eu treaty of reform, which is a disregard for democracy, as the main remedy against terrorism, i voted against it today.
in writing. i welcome the fact that a large number of members of the european parliament support the content of the kigali declaration on economic partnership agreements (epas), which was drawn up jointly in rwanda by meps from european, african, caribbean and pacific states. i am disappointed, however, that a jointly negotiated text, which was approved by the members of the european parliament and the acp members of parliament at the acp-eu meeting in kigali, is suddenly rejected by the epp-ed group and the liberal group in strasbourg. i am firmly convinced that this sends a completely wrong signal in the negotiations on a subject which is vital for the survival of the acp states.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. to say it right from the start, i believe that the olympic games should stay in china because it is a good opportunity to use these olympic games to force dialogue. that is also what the joint resolution says, mr mcmillan-scott, and if you are of the opinion that you have expressed, you are against the joint resolution. it was a former colleague of yours, mrs ferrero-waldner, madeleine albright, who, as us secretary of state, said that it is of course much more difficult to talk about human rights in china than in burma, because geopolitical factors also play a role here. in fact, we want china as a partner in solving many problems. but that must not prevent us from addressing the human rights issue very well and very intensely, not necessarily as teachers, as those who know everything better. i am very glad that the charter of fundamental rights has been signed today, because many speakers have also proved that we only have a right to talk about human rights issues if we are very good at protecting human rights ourselves. we are firmly convinced that it is in china's interest that human rights are not trampled upon but actually respected. china wants to have stability. how can china's stability be maintained if the human rights issue is not addressed more? we don't want china to fall apart. it is not sensible to want to build europe and destroy china, but without respect for human rights there is a danger to china's stability. we want to have a social orientation in china. in this enormous growth process, which mr barroso has also mentioned, stability can only be maintained if social aspects are taken into account. but i cannot take account of the social aspects if the question of human rights is not also taken into account, if it is not possible for trade unions to organise themselves, for citizens' initiatives to organise themselves. we want to have a more environmentally oriented china, because the environment is an important global commons. we know that in china many initiatives are being launched to protest massively against the violation of minimum ecological and environmental standards. it would be good for china if it listened to these voices, that would be progress for china. i therefore believe that it is not a question of european arrogance but of representing common interests. in china's interest we will address the human rights issue, and well-informed representatives of the political system in china will be well advised to listen to us and to this resolution, which is in china's interest and would advance china, which is not possible without respect for human rights.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. montenegro has much to admire. the landscape is admirable, as is the way in which the separation of serbia has been carried out - both montenegro and serbia have acted very responsibly here. the minority policy is also to be admired, which means that minorities generally feel very comfortable in montenegro. this and many other points are certainly to be admired here. but there are also shadows that worry me very much and that have already been mentioned: for example, the investment activity coming in particular from russia. i have no objection to russia investing in this country. however, the country must be careful not to create an imbalance and dependence on a single country - even if it were not russia, but another country, i would say. these investments are already threatening some of the natural and scenic beauties of this country. but what i find particularly sad - and some of my colleagues have already said this - is that the level of corruption remains the same. we have a lot of reports from media outlets that you can at least trust to try to report with some balance. the massive corruption cases related to cigarette smuggling and other reports are something we thought was over. i ask the commission to give these matters special attention. if the criterion of corruption were to be applied, we would not be able to agree to the stabilisation and association agreement today or tomorrow. but we are doing this, including the social democrats, because we want to help this country in its reform process. however, we demand that the commission and the country itself do everything possible to reduce the corruption that - this is the sad part - is reaching into political circles. at least there are massive allegations against the politicians involved. like my colleague mr kacin, i would like to point out that the murder of mr duško jovanović has not yet been solved. i wonder if it's just a coincidence that he and his colleagues have been the ones writing a lot about organized crime. i hope it's a coincidence and there's no connection. in any case, i would like the country of montenegro to clarify this case soon and do much more to fight corruption in its own country.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the importance of a referendum can be seen in the example of montenegro. that is why i can understand why so many posters in the plenary were held up in favour of a referendum today, because the treaty of lisbon, of course, gives us the opportunity to offer a referendum to the european citizens. i believe it is important that citizens are included in the polls and that citizens are given the opportunity to express their will accordingly. i believe that montenegro is also concerned with improving economic structures, and - as mr posselt has already mentioned - the european union's educational institutions and programmes are particularly important in this respect. but also in the energy field, energy efficiency and renewable energy are a huge challenge and offer completely new opportunities, especially in montenegro. in the field of telecommunications, it would also be desirable for montenegro to adopt the roaming directive directly, because this could of course contribute to better communications with our european countries at correspondingly low prices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. if we are talking about a beautiful, unspoiled nature, then we also have a claim to implement the latest standards there. the european union is offering support concepts which should be implemented as soon as possible.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. astrid, don't always assume that the social democrats are making unsustainable proposals! i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr klinz, for his balanced report. i would like to say to the commissioner that he should not always be afraid that we are going too far. in the context of the us financial and mortgage crisis, we now turn to the report on wealth management. even the european central bank is not in a position to fully appreciate the damage this crisis has done to the european financial system and to the banks. and there can and will be more to come! the global financial market is already so interconnected throughout the world that it has not been possible to protect the union from such speculative games which we all have to get rid of. greedy bank managers, focused exclusively on shareholder value, still enjoy high prestige, the us rating agencies are still good at business and misleading us. i don't want to let my feelings get the best of me. i'm sure there's no point in that. but occasion legislation is never appropriate. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. i would like to emphasize from the report that more information and transparency lead to more consumer protection and more consumer safety. that's a very good approach. the report also makes a positive reference to hedge funds and private equities, as more and more asset managers are investing in alternative investment forms: the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. wealth management, from the conceptual point of view, implies for me a stable development, whether through investment certificates, pension funds, life insurance companies, a bank or in the field of private asset management. we have had a market abuse directive since 2003. the implementation is lacking. the fund industry in particular is always talking about over-regulation, which is too costly, and refusing to extend transparency and accountability rules. we need a clearly structured legal certainty here, commissioner! i am pleased that my proposal for an improved corporate governance regime was accepted, but i regret that my application for eu financial market supervision was rejected. we could and probably should continue to think in this direction too, commissioner. it is a good thing that an intergroup compromise has been reached on the question of the guarantee fund. finally, we should and must do everything possible to limit speculation in the management of assets and to ensure that parliament, the commission and the council do not stand idly by. mr commissioner, this was addressed to you.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not what will 2008 bring for the textile industry in the european union? it's not good. china has emerged as the most aggressive textile power in the world, and in 2006 alone, 50 to 60% of high-tech textiles in the spinning, weaving and texturing machinery sector were purchased for china. the capacities are now available. european retailers and processors are no longer ordering, but waiting for better offers from china. there are more bankruptcies to come. the european focus on trade will create even greater problems for us in other areas, not just in the textile sector. the quantity supplied by us will of course increase. the textile diversity will be reduced. if the question is to make sense, it is that the further restructuring of industry in the european union must be accompanied and better socially cushioned. only a few niche producers will remain. but there is an additional dimension to this development. in china, working and wage conditions for women in textiles, clothing and leather work continue to be disastrous. european traders and investors are also putting additional pressure on prices in china. in addition to all the competitive advantages in china, strong european support is making it difficult for the remaining european textile industry to survive. making quick money always comes at the expense of the little ones. as a trade unionist, i would like the sports industry, which is staging the olympics in china, to take a look at how the women workers are doing there. already, 350 to 400 people die every day in china's textile factories. up to 100 people are maimed on the hands every day. nine out of ten chinese manufacturers violate international labor standards and labor standards of chinese laws! but we're doing well in the trade. i say to you as a trade unionist, as vice-president of the international textile, garment and leather workers' union: it is too late, but not too late for social action in our country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as head of the delegation for relations with the korean peninsula, i would like to express my congratulations to the rapporteur and say that i very much welcome this report. i would also like to emphasize what many still do not know, that the republic of korea is an important trading partner. that is why it is important that we reach a free trade agreement. the objective of this agreement must be to ensure that there are fair and equitable trading conditions to the mutual advantage and benefit of both parties. i can also say that i am pleased that the fifth round of negotiations went much better than the fourth round. i would encourage korea to support the eu proposals for a swifter and bilateral abolition of import duties. the union's target for this would be 2015. as we all know, the automobile sector is and will remain the challenge in the negotiations. what we as the european union expect is that the safety standards we have will be accepted by the republic of korea, just as we accept the standards of korea in this sector. i am optimistic that the barriers in the pharmaceutical and service sectors, particularly in banking and legal advice, can be removed. as regards kaesong, i would say that it would be important for the negotiating partners to find a way to support the kaesong project and other projects for economic and political reasons, in particular to bring north korea closer to the international community. overall, we are on the right track and i hope that it will be concluded at the beginning or in the first half of 2008.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that is not the debate we are discussing right now. i was going to say that immediately after the last debate. this house is just unreasonably cold. that may have been quite good yesterday, because the spirits were not as overheated as they might otherwise have been. but overall it is simply too cold, and i wanted to suggest, following the debate on the free trade agreement with korea, that we might try it with a korean air conditioning system if we were not able to achieve a reasonable temperature here with our european one.
a writer. i have to say, madam president, i am very grateful to my predecessor for pointing out that no religion is immune to the massive human rights violations against women on this planet, but that it is more to do with dictatorships and authoritarian systems than with any particular religion. hundreds of thousands of women were forced into prostitution by the japanese military before and during world war ii. historians estimate that some 200,000 of these so-called comfort women from korea, china, taiwan, and the philippines were sold as sex slaves to japanese soldiers. the so-called comfort women system is one of the most extensive cases of human trafficking in the 20th century, resulting in mass rape and forced abortions. after the war ended, many women were murdered by the military and prevented from returning home. many of the survivors have been silenced by shame about their past, stigmatized and marginalized. in the war crimes trials, forced prostitution was not discussed, there was no question of compensation. it was not until the late 1980's that the fate of the so-called comfort women came to light. this was not due to an automatic change in consciousness, but to the growing women's movement in south korea. gradually, former victims of forced prostitution began to speak out in public. in 1992, weekly demonstrations began outside the japanese embassy in seoul, saying that the japanese government should be ashamed, not us. at international level, the japanese government was first called upon in 1997 to take legal and moral responsibility for the most serious human rights violations committed against women. the un rapporteur on violence against women called in his report for financial compensation for the victims and for the prosecution of the perpetrators. the japanese government at the time reacted with a strong rejection of these demands. it has been said many times today that the truth must be taken into account. we therefore call on the japanese government to publicly reject all claims that deny or question the subjugation and enslavement of the comfort women, and we also call on them to take moral and legal responsibility for the enslavement of 200,000 people. we call on the japanese government to expedite the establishment of mechanisms to provide compensation for all survivors and their families. many victims of the comfort women system are now deceased or at least 80 years old, so it's urgent. we also call on our colleagues in the japanese national assembly to make their parliamentary contribution to helping these mechanisms to break through.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no doubt you've got a swinging ship stuck in the tejo quay. the question is, what's on the ship? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is not coming off the ship, it is not on the ship of the reform treaty? or do you just push it aside? they say we have reached the point of action; that's a good point. but that is not yet a democratic value. even dictatorships are proud to show that they can act. and what about the question of justice, where is the progress? i think there is a way out of this dead end of bureaucracy and waste into which you have maneuvered yourself; that would be the referendums. it's a pity you're shy of them, when you're so convinced you've got the right ship moored on the tagus quay.
