mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! as a german-speaking belgian and therefore a neighbour, i am pleased to welcome the german presidency of the council, because we know its commitment to europe. as a frontier resident, i can say for myself that i was fortunate to grow up in different languages and cultures, and europe has given us the freedom to live in this diversity. we took advantage of that freedom. we have brought people together in everyday life, in work, in education or even in leisure. we have also used european programmes such as interreg, leonardo and socrates, and so regions have been created on the borders which are in the european constitution. this will also be the recipe for the future: europe is not being built behind closed doors, but together with the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must build bridges between the 27 member states. i believe that you, madam president-in-office, have a particular sensitivity to the old and the new europe. i also hope that we, as pro-europeans, will be able to give an answer to the many questions of the citizens and not leave it to those who preach only disappointment or intolerance. we stand by you and wish you every success in your presidency. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, it is pleasure to see you in the chair, i congratulate you. to demonstrate clearly that this is not a strictly bulgarian issue, the bulgarian alde meps have requested colleagues of other nationalities to speak on it, which, of course, we all gladly do. as you know, five citizens of the european union – and i stress this – are languishing in a libyan jail. since 1999, five bulgarian nurses, a palestinian doctor and nine libyans have been detained on charges that are now well known. on 19 december 2006, the detainees were again sentenced to death. we express our total opposition to the death sentence. we protest strongly against this wrongful conviction. we highlight the disregard for the conclusions of renowned international hiv/aids experts, who stated that the hiv infections were due to an in-hospital infection that began long before the bulgarian nurses arrived. we also express our concern with regard to the allegations of torture. the european union and the european parliament, in particular, must monitor this case very closely. the commission and the council must keep the european parliament informed of any developments at all stages, and next week at their meeting the member states’ ministers of foreign affairs must put this affair very high on their agenda. finally, libya should realise that her standing in the world and her relationship with the union and its member states is at stake. libya should not forsake this opportunity to demonstrate that she abides by the fundamental principles of international law and human rights. most of all, libya must be aware that we are all in full solidarity with the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is a pleasure to see you in the chair again. my congratulations to you. eerst en vooral wil ik vooral collega romeva i rueda feliciteren met zijn zeer overzichtelijk verslag dat mijn fractie eenparig in de commissie heeft goedgekeurd en dat wij ook morgen hier in plenaire zullen goedkeuren. het verslag stipt alle vorderingen aan die de jongste tijd dankzij de niet-aflatende inzet van dit parlement konden worden geboekt. zo hebben de jongste drie voorzitterschappen hun werkzaamheden in verband met de gedragscode voorgelegd en besproken met onze subcommissie veiligheid en defensie, en ik nodig het duitse voorzitterschap graag uit om hetzelfde te komen doen. zo noteren wij de verfijningen en verhelderingen van de criteria in verband met de mensenrechtensituatie in het land van bestemming en in verband met de risico's van afwending of heruitvoer van geëxporteerde wapens. ook mijn fractie is van oordeel dat verdere verfijning nodig is in verband met de interne toestand in het land van bestemming, in verband met de weerslag op de regionale toestand, en in verband met de verenigbaarheid van wapenuitvoer met de technische en economische capaciteit van het land van bestemming. onze grootste ontgoocheling geldt het falen van de lidstaten om de gedragscode om te vormen tot een gemeenschappelijk standpunt van de raad, een gemeenschappelijk standpunt dat diezelfde code natuurlijk veel dwingender zou maken dan nu het geval is. dat zou ook een veel duidelijker signaal zijn van het feit dat het de lidstaten ernst is met het bijdragen tot wereldwijde wapenbeheersing en ontwapening. ik heb met grote aandacht kennis genomen van de verklaringen van de commissie terzake en ik heb ook met genoegen genoteerd dat de commissie in de nabije toekomst het voorzitterschap zal nemen van het kimberley-proces. dat verheugt mij bijzonder, meneer de commissaris, want ik heb zelf in een vorig leven daaraan nog helpen bijdragen. tot slot wens ik in alle duidelijkheid te stellen dat mijn fractie gekant is tegen het lichten van het wapenembargo jegens china en dat wij de lidstaten oproepen om met veel meer kracht te werken aan de totstandkoming van een internationaal verdrag inzake wapenhandel onder de koepel van de verenigde naties. het mag dan wel zijn dat de internationale context niet erg bevorderlijk is voor multilaterale akkoorden, zoals de commissaris zeer terecht heeft aangestipt. dat is echter geen reden voor de lidstaten en de instellingen van de unie om hun inspanningen terzake te laten verslappen.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one: more than 500,000 people die every year from conventional weapons. that's one human life per minute, 90 human lives during this debate. two , you 're not . one in three countries spends more on defense than on health care. three , please . countries in asia, africa, the middle east and latin america spend an average of 22 billion dollars on weapons. this money will help to achieve the millennium development goals, such as universal primary education and the elimination of child mortality. the report also calls for the eu to be given a role in the fight against terrorism and for the eu to be able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. the linking of this endeavour to the lifting of the arms embargo against china is, i think, an immoral position. finally, mr president, the report rightly calls for an international arms trade convention to be concluded within the un. i hope that my country, mr president, as a member of the security council, will also pay special attention to this.
the purpose of the reports before us is to make european railways more attractive to users. one of the things the european union has been encouraging for years is the opening up of the market, bringing more investment to the railways and improving the quality of services. that is the task for which this regulation on passenger rights is also suitable. we have come a long way since the commission's proposal at first reading and also with the council's common position and the vote in our committee. i would like to thank the colleagues who have contributed to it, and especially the shadow rapporteurs, for their contribution to this report. i think we are now putting together a final and feasible set of rights, regulating the liability of railway companies in the event of an accident - i hope there never is one, but if there is one, it should be regulated in the same way throughout the union. in which we arrange for the reception and compensation for delays in the event of a train disruption. in which we regulate the accessibility of trains and stations for people who are less mobile, people who are disabled; where we also deal with luggage or with bigger things like a bike or a stroller; i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer to it. but we do guarantee that tickets are very widely accessible and available to people who want to take the train. in which we also say that information to passengers must be clear and accessible. in which we also say that there should be a complaints system that is known to everyone and that is also easily accessible to everyone. and - i would ask the president-in-office to persuade her colleagues to add this point - we think that the whole system of rights should also be made clear to the citizens and to the rail passengers in the stations and on the train. i think we have put together a very balanced set of rights. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. but there is one point, madam president-in-office, one important point of difference between the council and parliament: we do not understand why all these rights should not apply to all rail passengers. if someone has an accident and is injured, does it matter whether he is on a train that crosses a national border or not? liability should be regulated in a clear and comprehensible way for all rail passengers in the union. if i want to be on a train in a wheelchair, then that train must be accessible or the station must be accessible, and it does not matter whether the train i want to be on is a train running from hanover to amsterdam or from hanover to berlin. so i would ask the council to abandon its position and to ensure that all railway workers get the rights they deserve. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. he also knows that by taking the train he can enjoy the diversity of the european union with peace of mind. and this diversity of the european union, as mrs merkel said this morning, is the soul of europe, and we would therefore like to encourage everyone to get to know this soul of europe by train, if possible.
i would like to begin by thanking the colleagues who, from far and near, have contributed to the result we are discussing today. as you know, it won't end here. we'll probably settle. that's gonna take some work. on the report by mr sterckx, i would like to repeat what i said in the first reading, namely that we have managed to reach consensus across party lines on the main issues relating to passenger rights. the gap with the council, which wants to restrict these rights to international passenger transport, can perhaps be bridged by the transitional measures we want to provide for situations where public service contracts already regulate these passenger rights. at the same time, we must ensure that these exceptions are clearly defined and thus prevent this regulation from becoming an empty box. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the debate on this subject varies considerably from one country to another, not only between political groups but also internally, given the situation on the railway market and the potential consequences of liberalising the national railway market. and i very much regret, and this is a personal view, that a majority of my colleagues, at least in the committee on transport, have expressed their support for the liberalization of national passenger transport. this is something that is not really being asked for by the industry and the consequences of which have not been properly studied. neither the commission nor the council, trade unions, consumer organizations or the association of european railway undertakings want this liberalisation to be approved today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for the simple reason that new competitors will naturally only be interested in the rare profitable lines on the railway market, with a significant economic loss for the public service operator, which will have to tap new revenue to maintain the small unprofitable lines or decide to phase them out. it would therefore have been better to look at the question of liberalisation together with the meijer report, commissioner, as you have already mentioned, so that we have clear and uniform procedures which allow member states or regions to allocate parts of the network to one specific company in the context of public service contracts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have also said on many occasions that i do not believe that market liberalization is in itself the panacea for bringing more people on the right track. in belgium, for example, the number of travellers has increased dramatically in recent years. last year it was 6.6%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the railway package is an interesting trilogy, and each trilogy has a little bit of drama in it. those who know mr jarzembowski know that he always likes to make sure that his proposals are not boring! the first two proposals have found a very broad consensus in parliament. i think it is very good that we are talking about the liberalization of the railways and discussing the accompanying measures at an early stage. it would be a pity if we were to make the same mistake here as we did with road transport, i.e. to liberalize first and then examine where there is still a need for regulation. i think that the same applies to the eu train driving licence. of course, the training should be of equal quality throughout europe, including for the personnel directly responsible for security tasks. it will be difficult to build a european rail network with different criteria and different requirements for train drivers from one country to another. mr savary has largely expressed the views of parliament and i should like to thank him for his report. the same applies to the rights of passengers. in simple terms, it would suffice to say that rail transport should be punctual and of good quality. in many countries, these two requirements would have been welcome. but we went further. my concern is that we may be setting the bar a little too high. the quality of services and the rights of passengers must of course be respected, but we must not set our sights too high when we already know the difficulties that it creates in international transport to meet all these requirements. the same rules should apply to international traffic. as the commissioner has already said, it is not possible that when you cross the border, the rights suddenly change from one country to another. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to help people with reduced mobility. i would remind you, however, that the package originally included a fourth proposal which we lost along the way. we must not forget that a certain quality must also be guaranteed in the transport of goods. the fact that we have imposed sanctions here must not lead to the neglect of freight transport everywhere for fear that sanctions will be imposed in other areas. the liberalization of the market: it goes without saying that international transport must also be liberalized. the same criteria must apply in paris, brussels and cologne. the question now arises of the internal market. i come from a small country, belgium, and we have already lost some of our train of thought on this subject, because the important links are cross-border, such as the link from aachen to brussels or from brussels to antwerp and on to the netherlands. but a question - and mr jarzembowski knows this - still arises in the small countries: who is willing and able to pay for these services and how can they be organised? we must answer this question in parallel with the present package. we can do this in the meijer report before we comment on this issue in general. i am following the commissioner's suggestion that we should include the meijer report in the overall package with this proposal by mr jarzembowski.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway companies in the member states are able to comply with the requirements of the directive. to counter these problems without changing the substance of the matter, we have divided the amendment into three parts, retaining the bulk of the text but removing the english word 'existing' by the second split vote, and removing the last sentence by the third split vote, thus preserving the body but removing the practical difficulties without changing the substance of the matter.
the rapporteur. - mr jarzembowski also asked why we asked for a split vote on amendment no 47. the second part of amendment no 47 concerns a person travelling by sea free of charge. i have asked for a split vote because there are many objections to this system. and i would like to know - hence the split vote - how many members support this and how many members do not, because in some member states there are great difficulties with this. that is why i am asking for a split vote.
in writing. it is wrong to impose on all the member states from europe how they should organise their national railways. it is good that competition on the railways in germany results in better service, lower prices and good safety, but this does not have to be good for the railway network in belgium. in many countries there is reason for dissatisfaction with railway services. the commission has therefore proposed an examination of the advantages and disadvantages of competition on the railways: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the railways, and has recently introduced a new system of public service compensation for railway undertakings. no one is asking for this kind of liberalization today: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's railways are not subject to the same restrictions as those imposed by the member states. i would have liked, as planned, to see this report dealt with together with that of erik meijer, whereby good procedures can be agreed to allow member states and regions to allocate parts of the network to one specific company in the context of public service contracts: this means the possibility of granting one concession to one service provider for a given period, but with a clearly defined set of requirements for optimal service provision, safety and environmental care.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of rejecting the council's common position endorsed by the jarzembowski report. the common position endorses the timetable for international passenger transport liberalization by 2010. i am firmly opposed to this liberalization which, contrary to what the ardent defenders of the "everything for sale" claim, will not generate a better service at a better cost. it will jeopardise the public service missions provided in the member states: the vast majority of users, who will become customers, will face higher fares and lower quality of service. rural areas will once again be the main victims of this process. moreover, liberalisation will put railway undertakings in small member states at risk and will have adverse effects on the working and employment conditions of railway workers throughout the european union. it is therefore in defence of public services, rail users and railway employees throughout europe that i voted for the rejection of the common position and against the amendments in favour of this liberalisation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the death penalty is not used in countries which have not yet adopted the death penalty. whether it is islamic countries where adulterers are stoned, whether it is bush's america or india, the world's largest democracy, whether it is communist china, it does not matter. i therefore unhesitatingly join the call for a global moratorium. one miscarriage of justice, one innocent life, is enough to make the death penalty barbaric. but i would like to add two concerns to that. respect for life should not prevent a state of law from giving serious criminals an effective and unrelenting sentence of 30 years or life imprisonment. this condition must and can underpin the consensus against the death penalty among the population. it is only in this consensus that our citizens, who are increasingly confronted with the most brutal forms of crime, will support the worldwide abolition of the death penalty. secondly, some opponents of the death penalty must show some consistency. we have recently seen the socialist candidate for president of france, on a visit to friends in the one-party state of china, praising the efficiency of the chinese judiciary. the efficiency, ladies and gentlemen, lies in the fact that the families of the masses of those condemned to death receive the annual bill for the bullet used to kill the victim. ségolène royal had no say in their affairs. they are not bringing in contracts, because the commercial interests of big companies in china have to be defended, and then suddenly we no longer hear from some european opponents of the death penalty. if europe wants to maintain its credibility, it must also put pressure on countries like china, whatever the political or commercial price.
i would like to oppose the black and white terms in which this debate is too often conducted. it also often seems that the united states is an enemy rather than an ally in the fight against terrorism. it is claimed that it is not, but almost every measure taken is contested here. it is true that the swift case raises some legitimate questions, and colleagues from several groups have already raised these questions here. for example, where is the balance between the tracking down of terrorists and the respect of fundamental rights? it is a question that is also being asked in the united states congress. at the end of the day, the fight against terrorism is largely about risk analysis, so it's about chance. the processing of commercial data in addition to purely personal data can make a useful contribution to this. the only thing that matters is to provide safeguards against abuse. parliamentary control must be provided, for example, over the operation of the system, but also over the algorithms used, which must be of the highest confidentiality. penalties should be provided for in the event of abuse. the information obtained may only be used in the context of the fight against terrorism. there should be a point of contact for complaints from the public, etc. it goes without saying that there is still a great deal of consultation with the united states. a clear legal framework is needed, in which all partners must be open to new ideas and new techniques.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the swift debate is clearly part of the wider debate on the difficult balance between the fight against terrorism on the one hand and the protection of fundamental human rights and privacy on the other. but not only is there a clear dividing line between the european and the american approaches, but there is also no agreement on a common definition of terrorism. the commissioner has indicated here how he intends to develop a european instrument to meet this need in the future, but that is not for tomorrow. we are, of course, dealing with the situation from the past and the present and i have some questions about that. to this day, data is being played back into the swift file as if nothing was going on. the conclusions of the reports of both the belgian privacy commission and the european committee are very clear and unanimous: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the directive. the belgian courts have decided not to prosecute swift and the belgian authorities see no loopholes in the continuation of these illegal practices. i would therefore like to ask what europe's reaction is to this. will the commission still initiate infringement proceedings against belgium? if so, when will the decision be taken? if not, what will the commission do to ensure that european privacy rules are respected hic et nunc in all member states and thus also in belgium? finally, at the council meeting on 15 december, the belgian prime minister also raised the swift issue and called for a european approach. i understand from the presidency that the investigation is still ongoing, but i have a very clear question: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank my fictitious rapporteurs, mr bushill-matthews, mrs mcavan, mrs evans, mrs sinnott and mrs belohorská, who are present and with whom i must say that the contacts have been particularly intense and fruitful since i was appointed rapporteur nine months ago. i quote some particularly striking figures in this report: 38% of women, 27% of men, almost 5 million children in the union are affected by obesity, with between 300 000 and 400 000 new cases per year for our youngest. it's simple and it's terrible at the same time. in 2000, who identified obesity as the leading health problem in the western world. how could it be otherwise when, on average, 6% of national health budgets are spent on all the pathologies that are caused by overweight: type 2 diabetes, respiratory problems, heart problems and others? beyond these figures, it is important to add and clarify that the most worrying is the upward curve that this disease is experiencing today. the first thing that we must realize, and we all agree with it, is that we have not reacted in time, and when i say 'we', i am referring to governments, health and education authorities and, of course, to us parents. the second, equally obvious, finding is that the effective fight against obesity and all its health consequences is not easy. this requires a holistic, holistic approach that takes into account factors as varied as heredity, lifestyle, and education in balanced and varied diet, and this from an early age. family and professional background are essential factors. it cannot be ignored that insecurity and poverty are factors that sometimes trigger and, in any case, accelerate obesity. third observation: we do not start from nothing. there are currently some 60 initiatives in the field of obesity prevention and physical activity promotion which benefit from or deserve follow-up at european level, for example fleurbaix and laventie and food dudes, to name just two of many. in this fight, as has been said time and again, europe has not only a say, but also an immense contribution to make. if europe is to bring real added value, it must integrate nutrition and physical activity into other community policies in a transversal way, where, fortunately, the major budgets of the european union are concentrated: the common agricultural policy, the seventh framework programme for research and the structural funds. i am also pleased that, in the reform of the cmo for fruit and vegetables launched last week by commissioner fischer boel, the promotion of the consumption of this type of food with a high nutritional value is one of its seven priorities, its seven main objectives. for my part, i would like to reiterate here, as in the report, that i prefer an incentive policy, price cuts, tax reductions or other types of subsidies, to any system which resembles a tax on calorific products of the "fat tax" type which, in the end, would penalise the most modest households in europe. i welcome all the compromises we have made in our work on important points in this report. i will not mention all of them, but i will mention a few. the compromise on paragraph 4, which recommends that all member states should officially recognise obesity as a chronic disease, as the who does: this is a strong demand, supported by the patient associations, which we had to pass on to each other; it is also, and certainly is, the surest way to avoid a form of stigmatization of a population type in our society and to ensure reasonable care by health care systems. the compromise on paragraphs 16 and 17 follows, which recall the importance of school in the learning of a healthy lifestyle, from the school canteen to the sports field, to sum up. finally, the compromise on paragraph 30 on the urgency of simplified and harmonised food labelling - that is our proposal - for products high in salt, sugar and certain fats. i would also like to make it clear that i agree with the socialist group and the greens when they tackle products and drinks with too many calories. yes, we must put an end to this politically correct, a little tiresome, which leads to inaction. who today can believe and say that there is no such thing as good food and bad food from a nutritional standpoint? that is why it is also important that the european union should take the lead in reducing the consumption of saturated fatty acids - that is our paragraph 28 - which are responsible for bad cholesterol and, therefore, a whole host of cardiovascular diseases. i also regret that our discussions have, in my view, focused too much on the question of banning television advertising for products and drinks high in sugar, salt and fat in children's programmes. i believe that this debate was largely decided by our vote on the revision of the television without frontiers directive in december 2006, so very recently. this is precisely what our compromise amendment 5 expresses. i too find it difficult to explain to a mother the coherence of a policy which would prohibit advertising on television for, say, chocolate bars but which would allow the same advertising on the internet or on the big screen, which is the reason for paragraph 24. in conclusion, mr president, i am convinced that we all have the same will. first, to contain this epidemic, to achieve noticeable progress in four or five years, especially among young people. secondly, we must try to reverse this trend by 2015 at the latest, through ambitious policies at all levels of government, including the european level. that is why we expect a lot from you, commissioner kyprianou, and from the future white paper which you will present to us next spring.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the members for the very interesting discussion. i am glad to see that we are thinking along the same lines. first of all i would like to say that of course we all agree that it is an individual’s choice at the end of the day. we will not put the food on the consumer’s table, and we cannot make them eat or not eat something. but at the same time we have a responsibility to make sure that consumers can make an informed choice, which means education, that is true, but it also means making sure that the information they receive is accurate, truthful, correct and science-based with reference to health claims. i note the call for nutritional labelling. that is something we are working on. we need to make sure that consumers get sufficient, understandable information so that they can make their choices. that goes for the citizens and the parents who have to make choices for their children, and they do have a responsibility to say ‘no’ every now and then. this is also an important factor, because we do not want to ban any food. i should like to make that clear. we do not want to exclude any food from the diet of the consumers. i cannot imagine a child growing up and never having an ice cream or a chocolate bar, but they do not have to have ten a day, and this is a question of moderation. this is a challenge for all of us. i also understand that advertising to children is an important issue. i think the compromise reached when we discussed the television without frontiers directive is a prudent one, but we are also working, as you know, on self-regulation within the industry to make sure that it is responsible in this respect. we have always said that it is more practical and much faster to go with self-regulation to a great extent, but we have always said in the commission that if that does not work, then we will not hesitate to come back and take more binding measures. i am sorry mrs breyer is not here, but i have to say that this commission has been very ambitious and courageous on many issues – i am referring to tobacco and alcohol and also to raising these issues. you will remember two years ago, when i first started presenting these issues on behalf of the commission, the reaction that came from various sides. but now we are having this debate. we are now discussing a green paper. it is a strategy that will formulate what the next actions are going to be. product reformulation is a very important factor for us. we are working on and studying the issue of trans fatty acids. i can assure you that i know the situation on that. it is a challenge. we have to make sure that if they are removed, nothing worse replaces them. that is something on which we will be working closely with efsa. the factor that we always have to remember is the social dimension, and the issue of inequality when it comes to health harm arising from obesity, because unfortunately, it does mostly affect lower-income families. that is a reality. so we have an increased responsibility to act in this respect. in conclusion i would like to say that i thank you all again for a very interesting debate. i am looking forward to discussing with you our strategy, once it is presented, and how we can achieve practical results and make it work for the benefit of the european consumers. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for the excellent work she has done.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am not in the habit of reacting to the words of the far right. i think that it is in tartuffe that molière tells us that not reacting at a given moment is to endorse. i feel obliged to respond here on behalf of the commissioner: mr martinez has nevertheless used the words 'vomit' and 'scandalous' in relation to the green paper and the report. i have been in this parliament for seven years, and i have never heard such terms before. i do not think that this report is particularly controversial or controversial. it seems to me to be quite consensual, as we have heard in the speeches. so i totally deny the accusations, or rather the insults that have been uttered. mr. martinez, very clearly, sees this scourge only through a north-south prism. that lens is his. we must not forget that the european union is a global economy, and that it is not just a world of the rich and the poor, but also a world of the poor and the needy. i would also remind you that in micronesia, in the samoan islands, there are also obese people, and this example is to answer in the same anecdotal tone as that used by mr martinez. i would add in conclusion that i have no lessons to learn, we have no lessons to learn in humanitarian aid and solidarity from someone who, like him, clings to this corner of the political chessboard.
president. - i voted in favour of the resolution on a worldwide moratorium on the death penalty because i am personally an absolute opponent of the death penalty. i do not want to create any misunderstanding. i am against the death penalty, but i am absolutely in favour of a very tough approach to crime. i would like to say that it is because of the laxity and cowardice of many governments in europe, where serious common law criminals, murderers and child rapists, as in my country, are systematically released early, that it is because of that laxity and cowardice that the call for the reintroduction of the death penalty is again being heard in europe. as an opponent of the death penalty, i sympathize with those people and i say that the complaints of those people must be taken into account.
in writing. the list of countries authorising the death penalty is long. the list of victims is even longer: 2,148 people were executed in 2005 alone. what about europe? can we be a european state and at the same time allow the death penalty? no, you can't! the abolition of the death penalty is also mandatory for the countries applying for membership of the european union. we in the european parliament even think that we must go further. that is the meaning of the resolution against the death penalty adopted by parliament today. all the political groups in parliament had already signed the declaration on the moratorium on the death penalty, with a view to universal abolition, with the exception of the far right, which was predictable. the majority required for the adoption of the resolution was reached. an unusual consensus in this parliament! a majority to remind us that joining the eu is not just about agreeing on fishing quotas! it is above all a reminder that europe does not compromise on its fundamental values. europe is at the forefront of the fight to abolish the death penalty. it was worth reminding him of that.
in writing. prolonged poor eating habits and lack of adequate exercise are adding to the burden of obesity on thousands of people in the european union each year. this increases the risk of many serious diseases such as heart disease, high blood pressure and respiratory problems. this not only has a price in terms of public health, but it also costs health insurance in the member states. i therefore advocate an integrated approach to the problem. consumer information and education, the exchange of best practice between member states, clear labelling on foodstuffs or actions in schools to promote healthy lifestyles are all ways of ensuring the necessary behavioural changes. the fight against obesity is not bounded by borders. we can make a positive contribution from europe and learn from each other's approach. cooperation with the member states, industry, the media, education and civil society seems to me to be the appropriate way forward.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that it is certainly not the sexiest dossier we have dealt with here and, given the high technical level, everyone assumed that an agreement at first reading was possible. however, this was considered to be beyond the reach of some member states which were absolutely opposed to any harmonisation of spatial environmental information, which were also particularly concerned about fees and permits and saw this initiative as a threat to national monopolies. no less than five council presidencies had inspire on their priority lists, but it was waiting for the finnish presidency, which on the night of 21 november 2006 was able to convince the member states to give up the fight. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to all those who have contributed to this success, starting with the commissioner and his staff. they have already done a lot of preparatory work together with an international team of experts, who are responding with great enthusiasm, so that no time has been lost. but also the shadow rapporteurs and their staff, the legal service of parliament, the secretariat of the committee on the environment and the mediation secretariat, the council presidency and all its staff. this is the procedure, but i should also like to say something about the content. as you know, inspire is setting up an infrastructure for spatial information in europe to support environmental policy at all levels. it will be clear to all that good policy can only be achieved if it is based on reliable and high-quality information. policy makers need to take into account the increasing interconnectedness and complexity of the issues affecting quality of life today when developing new policies. the sixth environmental programme also calls for attention to be paid to this reliable knowledge, but also to informed participation by citizens. the directive, which we hope to adopt tomorrow, sets out the objectives and member states now have two years to complete their national legislation and administrative procedures. in other words, before the next european elections, inspire will be a reality and will be based on the already existing spatial data infrastructure of the various member states. the geoportal provides member states with the possibility of making all geographical data sets available, as a first step towards harmonisation. this idea, which is naturally welcomed by everyone as such, has however triggered heated discussions within some member states which anxiously wanted to protect those fees for the sale of geographical data, but also wanted to impose stricter restrictions on access to information than the aarhus convention provides. it was precisely these two last challenges that prevented parliament from reaching agreement with the council at second reading. i would like to say again to my colleagues that i am very pleased that we were able to obtain during the conciliation procedure that services for searching and consulting spatial data should be made available free of charge in general. only under clearly defined conditions can fees be charged, in order not to jeopardise the financial viability of some public services. as regards intellectual property rights, parliament has chosen to apply strictly the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information on environmental matters and thus not to allow stricter restrictions on the basis of confidentiality, as requested by the council. i think we have found an honourable compromise and i hope that parliament will also give its full support to this agreement tomorrow so that implementation can really start in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals. these are almost inexhaustible if gaps and inconsistencies between european geographical data sets are eliminated, which now often make planning impossible and in some cases even cause chaos. the system is thus essential for improving and managing water quality in europe. the information collected can also contribute to the prevention and control of floods. all in all, i would say that inspire is an important complement to the existing environmental legislation in the european union and we will be following its implementation in the member states with great interest.
i would also like to thank the two rapporteurs for their very open cooperation. i think that the interest of so many people and organisations in this first reading, both in the strategy and in the revision of the directive, shows that waste offers many opportunities. waste is increasingly being seen as a valuable source of raw materials. but waste is also a problem. we 've heard it all before: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the waste is not reused or recycled. i think that the revision presented here certainly contains positive steps towards reducing the harmful effects of waste treatment on the environment and health. i am thinking of the five-step hierarchy, the waste prevention programmes for the member states, a better definition of a number of concepts, criteria for distinguishing products from waste, the introduction of the proximity principle, also the prohibition on mixing waste in order to dilute it and, of course, a procedure to clarify when waste ceases to be waste. however, there are still many bottlenecks. i am thinking, for example, commissioner, of amendment no 85, which states that landfills with gas extraction may be considered as a useful application. i think this is contrary to the policy of stopping the dumping of biodegradable waste. i also think that amendments nos 81 and 82 should not provide for deletion, precisely because amendment no 39 refers to the prohibition of incineration at sea. amendment no 26, which deals with the definition of 'energy recovery', should also be deleted, otherwise many incinerators would be covered by recovery and a free market for waste incineration would be created. this would be completely contrary to the principle of proximity, which is also very important in order to achieve a high recycling rate. finally, i think that the introduction of energy efficiency criteria is not the place to be here either, but in a review of the waste incineration directive. there was also no thorough study of the effects. finally, we must also ensure that certain provisions do not have the effect of reducing the achievements of some member states or of negating the current policy efforts. i am thinking here of my region, flanders, which is at the forefront of reuse and recycling in europe. these high figures are only possible thanks to the involvement of local authorities, but also to a number of accompanying measures such as levies and landfill bans. the flemish land-use planning system, for example, could also be jeopardised by excluding uncontaminated excavated land from the directive. different member states will have different interpretations of this when it comes to cross-border transport. i would have liked to hear the commissioner's opinion on this.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur may not have intended it, but the bozkurt report is in fact the most undeniable illustration of the fact that turkey simply does not belong in europe. it is wrong to think that turkey is just a country where a few things are still wrong and that everything can be solved with some new laws and some new rules or with the absorption of a few tens of thousands of pages of community acquis, after which a new european member state would be created. that is absurd. europeans are first and foremost people who live within a very specific geographical european framework. turkey is not. but europeans are also people who belong to a very distinct community of law and values, including equality between men and women. and yes, it is a matter of culture, mentality and even religion when that religion, as in the case of islam, does not limit itself to inner experience but wants to impose its outdated and usually totally reprehensible rules on the whole community. to remain on the subject of this report, turkey is undoubtedly the most modern islamic country, but it remains a backward country when it comes to women's rights. because it is an islamic country, where women are considered inferior and that will not improve with the progressive islamization, on the contrary. so for the love of god, let's stop running am symptom. turkey is a neighbouring country, but it can never become a european country.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to take this opportunity to answer your questions and to explain, perhaps even better than has been done so far, the whole genesis of these provisions. i cannot allow it to be said that these measures were adopted hastily and secretly, mr president. i shall demonstrate this, although i always find the remarks of parliament very useful and have listened to the speakers very carefully. but i would really like to explain first why new rules restricting the presence of liquids in hand luggage on board airplanes were introduced in the community on 6 november 2006. first, why these restrictions? the measures introduced by regulation (ec) no 1546/2006 are intended to address the new threats posed by homemade liquid explosives. we have relied on information from member states, in particular the united kingdom, that liquid explosives are a real threat to civil aviation. last summer, on august 10, 2006, british intelligence revealed a terrorist plot to blow up several aircraft using liquid explosives. the investigation found that the explosives were homemade, made from chemicals that were relatively easy to obtain. police discovered liquid explosives hidden in bottles of soft drinks, seemingly perfectly harmless. the old security measures would have been impossible to detect these explosives. given that information on the manufacture of such bombs may be in circulation, and that the necessary ingredients are easily acquired, it was concluded that the threat posed by these devices was real. the honourable members should know that it is possible to mask the colour and smell of these explosives. they may also be in the form of a gel or cream, as well as a liquid. a solution that was both feasible and effective had to be found. the commission wanted a consistent approach to be applied throughout the european union and a clear understanding of the situation by passengers, so that a uniform level of security could be ensured at all eu airports and on every flight. let us imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that very different rules were adopted in the european union without coordination. think of the confusion that this would have created, especially in the minds of the passengers. this would have made airport security management very problematic. could we avoid these difficult questions? could the commission afford to wait for a real attack to occur on board an aircraft to demonstrate that action was necessary? could the commission have been content to see member states implement a patchwork of disparate security rules which would have made transit through the main european airports difficult and chaotic? the commission has therefore examined this issue in cooperation with aviation safety experts from the member states and with the technical task force of the european civil aviation conference, ceac, which brings together experts from across europe. these experts advised him to limit the permissible capacity of bottles containing liquids to 100 millimetres and the total volume of liquid to that which can fit in a one-litre bag. they considered this sufficient to prevent the entry of a homemade liquid- explosive bomb large enough to cause catastrophic damage to an aircraft. we have had contacts with the american authorities who have reached a similar conclusion, and the approaches adopted on both sides of the atlantic are in every respect compatible. the commission has therefore decided to take the necessary steps to implement this consistent standard throughout the european union, in application of the framework legislation enshrined in community law. i now turn to procedural matters, because i cannot allow it to be said that we have not followed the procedures. a number of honourable members have expressed concern about the way in which the security rules applicable at airports have been revised. i would like to mention the european legal framework. regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 on the establishment of common rules in the field of civil aviation security constitutes the framework legislation. this regulation was adopted by both the council and the european parliament, under the codecision procedure, in the months following the attacks on the world trade center. this regulation establishes the principle that member states must define common basic standards for aviation security measures in order to ensure systematic compliance with these measures throughout the european union. however, as is often the case when a particularly sensitive subject is involved, this framework legislation does not cover all the details of the common standards and the measures envisaged for their implementation. this information is set out in annexes which may be adapted in accordance with comitology procedures. in the case of aviation safety, this use of comitology is necessary if certain details are to be changed in good time to take account of new information. many passages in these technical annexes contain sensitive data, since they specify the detailed rules for the application of ground safety measures at airports. and you can't just release certain specific information about airport security. public access to these detailed enforcement measures could help criminals and potential terrorists circumvent our security measures. for this reason, regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 adopted by the european parliament and the council specifically states that this information is secret and must not be published. the rules on liquids in cabin baggage are laid down in commission regulation (ec) no 1546/2006 and not, mr president, in regulation (ec) no 1448/2006, as stated in the questions. regulation (ec) no 448/2006 also deals with aviation safety but sets standards for explosive detection systems used at airports. at this stage of the debate, may i remind you that the other nine regulations have been adopted by the european union, that these regulations are in force, and that we have followed the same procedures for the tenth regulation under discussion today. the regulation (ec) no 1546/2006 in question has an annex classified as 'european union restricted', which means that it cannot be published in the official journal. however, there is no reason to conclude that the adoption of that regulation was vitiated by irregularities. it has received the approval of the member states of the european union within the air safety regulatory committee. it was following the positive opinion of this committee that parliament, through your committee on transport and tourism, received the draft regulation, in accordance with the comitology procedures laid down in council decision 1999/468/ec and in the framework agreement on relations between the commission and the european parliament. by letter of 4 october 2006, the committee on transport informed me that parliament had exercised its right of scrutiny and that no comments had been made on the draft measures. it should also be noted that the airline and airport representative bodies have fully supported the legislative proposal and actively participated in the development of the rules. we cannot say that this regulation was adopted in secret and undemocratically. frankly, if there was a procedural defect somewhere, i'd be the first to admit it. the next question concerns the transparency of the rules. as i have already said, the rules on aviation security, in particular those established by regulation (ec) no 1546/2006, are not published because potential terrorists could use them as a source of information. in this respect, community rules do not differ from national rules on aviation safety. it should be noted, however, that this regulation is addressed to the competent authority of each member state and that the authorities of the member states are required, pursuant to article 8 (1) of regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 on the establishment of common rules in the field of civil aviation security, to communicate information to interested parties according to their need to know in accordance with the national rules applicable to the dissemination of sensitive information. i must say that considerable efforts have been and must continue to be made to inform air passengers of what they may or may not carry. they are told what they need to know to prepare for their journey and if it appears that this information is not clearly communicated to passengers, the commission will raise this issue with the competent national authority. ladies and gentlemen, i have really become a champion of passenger rights. i have shown this, particularly in relation to airlines, and we are currently carrying out an inquiry - i have reported to parliament on the initiation of this inquiry - to find out whether passengers' rights are really being respected. therefore, i am not, it seems to me, a priori suspected of not being interested in the passengers. i fully understand the message of the questions you have asked me. these questions highlight the difficulty of the problem, but what i would first like to say is that the procedures have been followed to the letter, in accordance with our regulations, and that if there are any difficulties in the application, we ensure and insist that the member states warn us of them and allow us - i will remind you of this in reply to the other speakers - to evaluate this device, which i hope will be temporary, as the development of technology and equipment will make it possible to detect better, in the liquids, the risks i have mentioned. in any case, what i am saying is that safety is still a major element of air transport in particular and that we have had to take these measures not out of a sense of humour; we have had to take these measures because we have been unable to find a solution to the problems of safety in the air. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the measures are implemented in a uniform manner throughout the european union. i have just been to washington last week and i can tell you that we are doing everything in our power to ensure that passengers on both sides of the atlantic are subject to the same rules, otherwise, of course, we will only be postponing the problems of transatlantic flights and transport. i would like to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of the treaty.
the problem we are discussing today is complex. it is, after all, a question of finding a good balance between two things which are very close to our hearts and which at times may seem contradictory, namely, on the one hand, the pursuit of the greatest possible degree of effective security and a sense of security and, on the other hand, the protection of fundamental human rights, civil rights, including the right to privacy, freedom of movement, to which we are so accustomed. the consequences of the measures taken were quite spectacular: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it could be said that the rapid reaction of the european security agencies can be interpreted as a sign of efficiency. but on the other hand, we're also faced with two kinds of questions. first of all, the question of the effectiveness of the measures. we all know that there are inevitably a number of exceptions, for example, to medical personnel. we have therefore to ask ourselves whether these measures are actually deterring well-prepared, well-informed terrorists, while the masses are being harmed. i understand that the commission is planning a first evaluation this spring. that is good, this should be done regularly and we should also be aware of the side effects, such as the infringement of freedoms. that balance is in danger of being lost and a democratic debate is necessary, as we are having it tonight. this brings me to a second fundamental question, namely the democratic control of such decisions and therefore the involvement of the european parliament. i am convinced, commissioner, that the commission has formally followed all the rules. i have no doubt about that. in fact, a number of members of the committee on transport - and i was there - were able to examine the legality of the proposal for a regulation individually, alone, without staff, without legal advice, without consultation, a few days before the regulation was formally adopted. we have therefore been able to establish that the committee of experts has taken a decision in accordance with the regulation applicable to this matter. i would like to say, commissioner, that it has become clear from this question that the comitology procedure applied here is inadequate. we must therefore seek together ways of having a genuine democratic debate on these sensitive issues which have a major impact on the way our citizens live. just so we 're clear , i am not making a plea here to decide as a parliament what kind of scanners should be used at airports or when a threat is alarming. it is important, however, to be more involved than today in thorough evaluations and impact assessments, for example. at the same time, i would also like to make a plea for sufficient funds to be provided in the meantime through research and development to be able to detect, as you have just said, this type of liquid explosives so that we can avoid it. i hope, commissioner, that after tonight we can draw some conclusions, and i am counting on your support and experience.
in writing. prevention is better than cure! this saying, which sounds like a desire to act at the source, is perfectly applicable to european waste policy. indeed, what do we see? between 1995 and 2003, the total waste generation increased by 19%, with an average of 3.5 tonnes per person per year. if we add that less than 20% of waste is recycled, that half of the materials at the end of their life are not processed and end up scattered in nature and that, in addition, the proliferation of incinerators and landfills dangerous for the environment and health is not a sustainable policy, the whole philosophy of waste management must be rethought, and this, around 3 strong axes: eco-design as a priority of waste prevention policy since 80% of the environmental impact occurs at the time of manufacture and treatment of the product; the introduction of a dissuasive and unfavourable green tax on packaging and energy products; the closure of the 10 000 landfills on the territory of the european union or their compliance with the 2001 european landfill directive.
mr president, i voted against the bozkurt report. on the one hand, some necessary findings are made, but as a parliament we are leaving out an opportunity to put real pressure on the turkish government. the accession negotiations with turkey could be used as a lever to make progress on the human rights situation, in this case women's rights. but the european parliament seems to be deliberately choosing not to do so. there is a majority in this house who believe that turkey must be able to join the european union at any cost. officially, of course, it is stated that negotiations with turkey can be suspended at any time if it is found that this country is manifestly violating the human rights conditions. however, we have had to establish on several occasions that this suspension of negotiations will never take place. it is a provision which serves only to appease the majority of voters in europe who are against turkey's accession.
in writing. forced marriages, domestic violence, honor killings, illiteracy, etc.: the situation of women in turkey is not rosy! according to unicef, every year 700,000 girls are denied education by their families. the employment rate for women is less than 25%, far from the eu's 55%. these are worrying figures, as turkey's eu membership is a matter of controversy. this is why parliament is proposing constructive measures: an assessment of turkey's progress on the basis of criteria; the creation of shelters for women victims of violence; the compulsory registration of all girls at birth, in order to combat forced marriage; the training of the police and the judiciary in the fight against honour crimes, in order to encourage the systematic opening of investigations and the necessary sentences; the commission has also proposed a system of mandatory quotas for women's participation in political life. i am not a big fan of affirmative action. but i am convinced that temporary measures in turkey are useful. this country is in dire need of women in positions of power. they should serve as models, so that beyond the codes, it is the mindsets that evolve.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our own country is also facing a challenge, the challenge of globalisation. we live in a rapidly changing, open world. in the european union we are faced with global, sometimes aggressive competition, with an ageing population and a warming climate. it is a competition which is becoming more intense not only on the supply side of our sales market but also on the demand side of the raw materials and energy market. we can ignore them, we can passively accept them, or we can prepare for them. but if we want to give the children of today a perspective on a quality life and a good job, then we have only one answer: make sure we're competitive. the desire to be competitive does not mean that we give in blindly to the pressures of globalisation. it does mean that we are equipped to give a future to what is dear to us, namely our european social model and the values on which our way of life and society are founded. to be competitive, we need a bold vision, strategy and people and resources. the vision is in place. we have the lisbon strategy with the partnership for growth and jobs and as the epp-ed group we have always been fully committed to this. we also greatly appreciate the fact that the barroso commission is doing so much work, as does the german presidency, which wants to focus further on the weaknesses that need to be improved and on a serious energy plan. the last commission report says that the economic outlook has improved in the last year. let us seize this momentum to achieve our objectives with even greater vigour, because there is still a great deal to be done, including by the member states, which may sometimes be over-valued in the commission's reports. with a view to the spring summit, a resolution will be voted on here tomorrow. we have been able to test them against the views of the national parliamentarians, with whom we had a good meeting last week. this resolution also reflects our priorities, which will be further elaborated by our shadow rapporteur, klaus-heiner lehne. completion of the internal market, including for consumers and smes, administrative simplification, an examination of the impact of the gold-plating practice, more research and innovation, a renewed approach to energy policy and action against climate change, focusing on energy supply, affordability, less dependence, more renewable energy sources, less greenhouse gas emissions. all of this is necessary if we are to achieve our objective of more growth and jobs. the majority of our group also considers that nuclear energy should be included, although we fully respect the principle of subsidiarity. of course, lisbon is more than what i have listed so far. it is above all a matter of concern for the welfare and dignity of people and their place and role in society. that is why we are absolutely committed to education, training, lifelong learning, the fight against exclusion and a good immigration policy, and yes, also gender equality, because the exclusion of talented women is also a form of brain drain. as regards labour market reform, we look forward to the discussion of the commission document on flex-security. lisbon is a people's business. the process must also be supported by the people. as long as the european strategy for growth and jobs is seen by the people more as part of the problem than as the way to the solution, we have reason to be concerned. the involvement of the people and civil society must both be increased. in the case of earlier major projects, such as the europe of '92 and the introduction of the euro, we have succeeded in doing so thanks to a large, broad-based communication initiative. we have missed opportunities in enlargement, and certainly the member states have missed opportunities. without a good communication strategy, lisbon will not be sufficiently understood, will not be supported and will not be sufficiently implemented, perhaps because of a lack of political courage. i therefore warmly urge the three institutions to invest in this and perhaps to include it in the important berlin declaration which is now being prepared. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteur for the resolution we are adopting tomorrow, which we have prepared in the working party of 33 chaired by joseph daul. it is a bit of a long resolution, but it has been widely adopted and that too is good for giving a broad signal as to where we want to go with this strategy.
mr president, for the greens it is quite clear, as my colleague mr harms has said, that the european council in march will be mainly about energy, and we have demands in this respect. i would like to mention another point which relates to the evolution of the labour market and taxation in europe. two examples. in belgium, instead of losing 4,000 jobs, the volkswagen-forest plant will lose 3,000 and workers will go from a 35-hour week to a 38-hour week for the same pay and greater flexibility. under these conditions, the group's management believes that the plant will be one of the most efficient in europe and will meet the criteria for a successful lisbon strategy. secondly, in france, half of the private sector employees earn less than 1 400 euros a month, mrs royal reminded us this sunday. these facts throw a brilliant light on the european social model. many economists see this change in working conditions and pay as structural, linked to technological innovation and increased globalisation of activities. the majority of european employees will thus be subjected to increasing pressure in the years ahead. how can we cope with this situation? i think the european union can help. it can help by putting an end to the absolute scandal that a well-off citizen can walk from monaco to belgium, via lichtenstein, to escape taxation, and thus escape the progressivity of taxation. i also believe that the european union should opt, as it has committed itself to do in the g8 and in the oecd, for a resolute policy of abolishing tax havens, which are present all over the planet and which allow financial capitalism to function. i also believe that if mrs merkel and mrs royal want to give concrete substance to the social protocol they are announcing to amend the draft constitutional treaty, the european union should finally establish a minimum corporate tax in the european union, which implies, if the rule of unanimity is to be maintained, that a group of countries decide to go ahead.
i thank you, commissioner, for your reply, which seems to me to be more like a figure of speech than a real answer to my questions on the liberalization of postal services. i was referring in a question to solutions which are being studied by the committee of inquiry into the liberalization of the postal service. when we talk about a solution, it means there's a problem. but we now see that there is no problem with the distribution of the post - which is the subject of the agenda. the citizens are happy, the distribution works well. on the other hand, where the distribution of the post has been liberalized, as in sweden, the stamp is more expensive, the service is less well done. why, commissioner, does the commission exclude the possibility of maintaining the reserved area as we know it, which enables and guarantees universal service for the benefit of all europeans, which will certainly not be the case, as previous experience shows, with the projects you propose as previous experience shows.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to recall the overwhelming vote in the plenary on 14 november: 559 votes against, 64 in favour and 16 abstentions. the european parliament has rejected, by such a large majority, the proposal for a council regulation on the voluntary modulation of direct payments. i regret that the commission has not therefore opted to abandon the text. while i understand and share the need for better financing for the second pillar of rural development, i cannot accept that this should be done so abruptly at the expense of the first pillar and certainly not in a voluntary way, because the effects of such a measure would undoubtedly be devastating. the commission's proposal would endanger the livelihood of many farms and distort competition. moreover, the proposal could lead to the abandonment or renationalisation of the cap. finally, it does not comply with the community's objectives in the field of rural areas. these reasons, which led to the rejection of the commission's proposal last november, are still very much alive today. on the basis of these considerations, which are amply detailed in mr goepel's report, i therefore fully support his position.
the report is a first step towards a year of intensive work in the temporary committee on the cia, and i would like to thank both rapporteur fava and our chairman, mr coelho, for their efforts and, above all, for their patience. the commission's proposal is not a good one, because it is not a genuine committee of inquiry with judicial powers and because the council of europe has already started to investigate possible human rights violations. but today both supporters and opponents will have to admit that the committee of inquiry did do some sensible work. of course, hard evidence was not to be expected, nor has it always been forthcoming, but there is a lot of factual evidence. many testimonies and working visits have revealed a system which allows one to conclude that several european member states were indeed aware of illegal practices and that others were unaware of what was happening on their territory. both findings are equally painful to me. the differences in views between europe and the united states on how to strike a balance between the fight against terrorism and respect for fundamental and human rights were very clearly shown. it is no coincidence that this discussion coincides with and is consistent with the conclusions reached in the swift case and the eu-us discussion on passenger data transfers. i'd like to make one observation here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope, however, that the european parliament will be united in its vote this afternoon and send a clear signal, because the protection of fundamental and human rights is a matter of life and death.
mr president, i support this report, which is a courageous report, condemning practices which are an insult to human rights. few european countries have been spared. what about belgium? have cia planes flown over his airspace with detainees on board? the belgian investigation reached negative conclusions but acknowledged that the authorities did not have a mandate to check passengers on airplanes in transit. so there will always be doubt, as in other countries. the belgian senate committee described in detail the incidents which initially intervened in its investigation, including the reluctance of the secret services. the president of the senate, anne-marie lizin, did not hide it when she came to testify in the european parliament. in june 2006, the findings of the inquiry were voted on in the senate and made public. so we can say everything about belgium, that it is a complicated country, that flemish and walloons would do well to get along and that we make stupid jokes on television. but not that it's not a great democracy playing transparency. we swept the front door and i hope the report at least acknowledges that.
in writing. the european parliament has just delivered its opinion on the work of its temporary committee of inquiry into the use of european airspace by the cia for the purpose of illegal transport of prisoners. the verdict is not surprising: condemnation of the many member states which have de facto supported the cia. the report by mr fava is of a high quality: it recalls a common foundation of fundamental values: respect for human rights, condemnation of torture and respect for the legal framework in the war against terrorism. it also has a major flaw: it is totally unaware of the fact that our governments have no other limits to their efforts than those of reason, the one that allows them to reject the impossible: the secret services will never be welcoming and transparent! let us not confuse humanism with angelicism! the philosopher alan aldaws said simply: "freedom is not possible without security, and security is not worth anything without freedom". this concern for safety in freedom justified my abstention! i am convinced that my friend antoine duquesne, former minister of the interior of the kingdom of belgium, would have delivered the same message if he had been able to vote today!
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution tabled by the epp, the pse and alde presenting ideas for the spring 2007 council in relation to the lisbon strategy. two paragraphs which i regarded as fundamental have been accepted by my colleagues, whereas i find them contrary to my european convictions. firstly, the european parliament has agreed to support the policy of allowing private funding for universities and to encourage the private sector to speak out about the needs of the market in education and training. this may lead to a form of competition between universities which could undermine equality in university education. in addition, the european parliament decided to ask member states to review inefficient social models in the light of their long-term financial viability, changing global dynamics and demographic trends, with the aim of making these social models more sustainable. in my view, this amounts to nothing less than an open threat to social security systems. it is only on these two grounds, contrary to my convictions, that i have decided to vote against this resolution.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i have been asked, on behalf of the committee on development, to draw up an opinion on this report on the external dimension of the fight against terrorism, drawn up by my colleague, mr luis yañez, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs. when we talk about this subject, we can only do so in an approach which includes our development policies, for the benefit of the countries of the south in particular. this opinion, which is uncompromising, does indeed touch on a number of essential points, which have already been discussed here, concerning the very definition of terrorism, respect for human rights and relations with the various diasporas in europe, in particular. the opinion also addresses the difficulty of combatting terrorism in conjunction with the need to uphold human rights in all circumstances, so that no one can justify the denial of one in the name of the other. our report then touches on the issue of the fight against terrorism in terms of the impact that its financing may have on the quality and effectiveness of european development cooperation. we should point out, for example, that at present a large number of measures adopted by the member states, which do not directly relate to a policy of reducing poverty in the southern countries, are unfortunately included in official development aid, such as financing for security investments, the repatriation of illegal immigrants, a number of expenditure related to immigration policies and so on. the committee on development would also like to draw the attention of the house to the fact that the inclusion in official development assistance of financial support for a range of activities related to the fight against terrorism will only further undermine its primary objective, namely the eradication of poverty. this opinion was voted almost unanimously in the committee on development on 6 november. unfortunately, however, a majority of the members of the committee on foreign affairs did not consider it necessary to adopt a single paragraph of that opinion. that is why we have decided to reintroduce the main lines of this text in the form of amendments to the report, and i therefore call on all the democratic groups to support them so that we can, alongside the necessary fight against terrorism, effectively pursue development policies aimed at achieving the millennium development goals, which are the real long-term answer to terrorism and all the suffering it brings with it.
the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and i am sure that the european parliament will be very active in the fight against terrorism. as the report rightly states, international terrorism is the greatest threat to the peace and stability of open societies, the most direct threat to freedom, security and human dignity. international terrorism has declared war on the entire western world, including europe. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we clearly identify that threat. when i read in recital a of the report terms such as 'international terrorism and its ideology', i fear we are not on the right track. terrorism is not an ideology in itself, nor is it an end in itself. as the director of the arab television station al-arabiya stated some years ago, it is a painful reality that today not all muslims are terrorists, but all terrorists are muslims. it's a story that, like all stories, contains a kernel of truth. it is fashionable in europe to say that we do not want a clash of civilizations, but whether one likes it or not, that clash of civilizations is in full swing. the fight against poverty must be continued and supported, of course, but we must not be naive and think that this means that we are also fighting terrorism. the perpetrators of the attacks in new york, london and madrid were not poor people, but, on the contrary, highly educated people of the middle class. the european union therefore benefits from the introduction of democratic ideas, including freedom of expression, into the islamic world. so there should be a kind of radio freedom on a large scale. is this a plea to stigmatize all muslims? no, not at all. but it is important that within islam, things like self-criticism and introspection are promoted. a few weeks ago it came to light that the chairman of the muslim executive in belgium - which is an official government agency, funded and recognized by the government - had given money to a convicted terrorist who was in a prison in belgium. this fact is in itself very bad. what i find even worse is that there has been no reaction from the muslim community in belgium to this incident. on the contrary, they have remained silent, and that at least gave the impression that they were not at all shocked by the fact that the president of the muslim executive, who claims to speak on behalf of all the muslims in belgium, is indirectly supporting terrorism. that is a disturbing situation and we must take action against it.
the president of the council. mr posselt, you have spoken of the question of delay and perhaps also of the dangers that can arise from it. it is very important that we have said - the general affairs and external relations council was very much involved in this on monday - that we need a solution. the council's conclusions do not suggest that the date should be postponed to st. nicholas day. on the contrary, we have taken the views expressed - also on the basis of the eu troika meeting in belgrade - as an opportunity to say that a new parliament will be formed from the democratic forces and a new government will be formed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the council was aware that the whole process could not be restarted, and that the timing of the event was indeed important in order to avoid the instability you mentioned. i do not want to speculate on other possible things at this stage.
the president of the council. i would like to reiterate that this is a very important stage in the status process. however, developments in serbia must also be taken into account. the short deadline now set is important to continue the process. we know that we in the european union are not the only ones to decide this, but that the special representative of the secretary-general must of course submit proposals to the united nations so that the necessary steps can be taken.
president, mr minister, i believe that the de facto granting of independence to kosovo will be one of the greatest challenges facing the international community in the coming months. the european union will have to play an important role in this. you yourself have spoken of the international civilian mission, you yourself have spoken of the civilian aspect of european defence and security policy. i hear figures of 71 officials for the international civilian mission and a thousand officials for the european union for the european defence and security policy. can you put a figure on that in terms of budget? and has the council already made any arrangements to prepare for a possible budgetary change?
the president of the council. i can give a relatively short answer here. there is no majority among the member states to bring about change here.
the president of the council. this is not a new subject and many experts are concerned about it. but i would like to say again that when budgetary control is carried out, it is not necessarily about the court of auditors' petition, but rather about the question: how are the rules, including the budgetary rules, made more efficient, more transparent and more uniform so that the necessary control can be achieved? the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
the president, mr minister, you have said twice that there is no majority in the council to reach such an arrangement. can you provide sufficient transparency to say which member states are prepared to accept such a system and which are not? i think that could put a lot of democratic pressure on the member states who are not prepared to do that and do not want to be accountable for the resources they spend.
in writing. fifty years! it is almost 50 years since several european countries embarked on development aid and north-south cooperation. half a century, with mixed results. why would you do that? for a number of reasons. one of them is the lack of ownership of development strategies by the countries receiving aid. that is why i voted in favour of the report on budgetary aid to developing countries, aid which is directly managed by the government of the recipient country. it is therefore this government, after a dialogue with the union and the elaboration of a strategy, which assumes responsibility for its own development. i know this instrument is controversial. especially when it comes to using it in fragile countries, with unstable finances. this is obvious when it comes to undemocratic or corrupt countries. it cannot therefore be used everywhere. the success of budget support, however, is the breaking of a vicious circle. the conditions are clear: no budget support without respect for governance standards, the fight against corruption. no budget support either without measures to clean up the economy. the more points a government scores in good governance, the more it receives. it's the creation of a genuine virtuous circle!
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. "first the food and then the morals", is the motto. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the politicians who yesterday and the day before yesterday were rightly hammering on human rights and waving their hands in the face of international law in the fava report are now suddenly talking about the need to respect chinese sovereignty. the illegal occupation and subsequent annexation of tibet is not mentioned. not a word about the massive human rights violations. the increasing exclusion of tibetans from the administration of their territory, not a word. not a word about the namdrang rangdrik program, which was launched in 2005 and requires tibetans to demolish their homes and then rebuild them according to strict official guidelines. it is hypocritical to say that a solution satisfactory to both sides must be sought for the future of tibet. victim and executioner are thus considered equal interlocutors. the eu's position was made clear once again in november 2005 when chinese president hu jintao was received with much fanfare throughout europe. mr jintao, in particular, committed serious human rights violations when he was secretary of the communist party of tibet between december 1988 and march 1992. the tibet issue shows once again that european rhetoric on human rights is all too often a moral envelope and that in reality only economic interests are at stake. we must always dare to denounce the cowardice and hypocrisy of this europe, of this mercantile europe, which takes the side of oppressors against innocent peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the report in the committee on agriculture on 24 january was split: 22 votes in favour, 15 against and 6 abstentions out of 43 members present. this report, entitled 'biotechnology: prospects and challenges for agriculture in europe', has aroused a great deal of reaction, not only in our group, but also because it focuses on gmos, whereas biotechnology is much broader. for this reason, and the risk that this report, which is quite fundamental for a subject as important as biotechnology, will not be adopted, it would be desirable to refer the report back to the committee on agriculture for its review and perhaps to arrive at a more balanced proposal supported by a more massive vote. i should like to add that i have met mr virrankoski on this subject, whom i thank for the constructive meeting we had last week, and it seems that my colleague, mr busk, the coordinator, would also agree with me, if i am to believe the e-mail he sent me.
president. - i should like to congratulate the rapporteur. i would like to begin by saying, as some of my colleagues have already done, that the services directive, at the instigation of the european parliament, excludes a wide range of social services. because it is unthinkable to a majority in this parliament that you treat social services in the same way as commercial services. social services guarantee citizens' basic rights and also protect the most vulnerable. they are clearly expressions of solidarity in a society. it is therefore right, commissioner, that the commission in its communication should recognise this specific nature of social services. but it is clear to me that this recognition is not enough. subsidiarity, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer the answer. this is very clearly demonstrated by sophia in the field and by the commission's communication in which it itself explains how the internal market and the competition rules apply also to social services. and that's not always a favorable situation. so, in order to create legal certainty and to determine the extent to which the internal market rules can apply in this broad area, we need a sector-specific directive which does indeed protect subsidiarity and safeguards the social mission of these social services. we have already said this in the report by bernard rapkay. today in the report by joel hasse ferreira we are again asking the commission to come forward with a proposal by june of this year. i know that the portuguese presidency has a particular warmth for the social dimension of european policy. protecting and continuing to guarantee social services fits perfectly into this endeavour. i hope therefore that this parliamentary report will receive broad support in the european parliament and that the commission will make a constructive proposal to us by the summer.
i am surprised that the european parliament has not yet been able to take a decision on the matter, and i am surprised that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is only a few weeks ago that commission president barroso - and all things considered a commission president, a high official, but a purely political appointment - told the dutch people in their own country that they had had enough and that they should now accept the european constitution. a european constitution which is being implemented step by step, despite the rejection and democratic referendum in two member states and despite the fact that a good number of other member states do not even dare to hold a referendum on the subject. the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the accession of turkey to the european union, and the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the accession of turkey to the european union. today is the day of the sale. the commission's 2008 policy strategy announces measures to bring about a new wave of immigration to europe, while european citizens are demanding the opposite. they are asking us to finally take effective measures to limit or even stop immigration from non-european countries by adequately protecting our borders and by cutting off the semi-legal channels of immigration, such as the far too extensive family reunification. the commission proposal today pretends that this is a temporary phenomenon, with non-european temporary workers going back to their countries of origin in a relatively short time. that's cheating the reality is that these temporary workers are not going back, that in the short term their families are also affected and that there is no way of removing them. the whole community is left with the consequences of this shortsightedness, the clash of cultures, the formation of ghettos, crime by uprooting and, in the end, the disruption of an entire community. so i repeat that a new wave of immigration is absolutely sinister. on the contrary, we must work on protecting our european borders, on a european policy of return for illegal immigrants and for foreigners who have committed criminal acts, and on a thorough assimilation of non-european foreigners who are legally on our territory. in the european capital of brussels, 40% of the non-european population, including the third generation, is currently unemployed. so do not come to me with the idea that we have to import more unemployment. and finally, the gist. the european project is met with a great deal of mistrust among the european citizens. europe will only be able to reawaken its enthusiasm when it becomes truly democratic and listens to the wishes and needs of its peoples and citizens.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is coming at the right time. the negotiations have just been concluded. the transport council will decide next week. in fact, the european parliament will only be able to formally express its opinion on the agreement afterwards by means of a report which i will then draw up as soon as possible. the resolution, which we have drawn up on my initiative together with the various groups, is intended to send a clear signal to the council and the commission. in short, commissioner, we support you and we ask the council to approve the agreement negotiated. this agreement marks a major breakthrough towards a fully integrated transatlantic aviation market and provides a way out of the legal sword of damocles that has been hanging over the aviation sector for some time. the opponents of the agreement rightly say that there is still a lack of balance between the rights that american companies can enforce in europe and the rights that we can enforce in the united states. there are historical reasons for this, because the united states, through a combination of bilateral agreements, is already able to do much more than we are today. but we must not forget that the liberalisation of the european aviation market has not been achieved in one phase, nor has it been completed in a short period of time. we were clearly in favour of one big agreement, but we think that this is politically not feasible. for european consumers, this agreement is already good news. european airlines, as you have said, will be able to fly from anywhere in europe to anywhere in the united states, which will lead to more supply and perhaps lower prices. there have also been some concessions on the american side to give european companies a little more access to the domestic american market. you have just given a number of examples. but what is important for us is that there is a second phase. we also believe that the establishment of the joint committee will allow a permanent dialogue to be established to discuss a whole range of aspects relating to the social dimension, the environment, safety and security. we have emphasized this quite strongly in the resolution, because we believe that liberalisation of the aviation sector, with all its consequences, both negative and positive, must go hand in hand with the setting of high standards in the areas i have just mentioned. we note that technical cooperation is provided for in the field of the environment, for example, in order to use the most efficient air routes in the future. that's a good thing. i would say to those who are in doubt, especially our british colleagues who are under pressure, that i think they too will benefit greatly from the agreement. heathrow airport will be able to develop more than ever before into the gateway to america with more direct connections in the vicinity of british consumers. finally, commissioner, we will also do our best to bring the next stages to a successful conclusion, for example by establishing contacts with our colleagues in congress. we also hope for your cooperation in continuing to be involved in the forthcoming negotiations.
in writing. corporate social responsibility should be taken for granted, but it is far from being. companies that claim to be socially responsible have an obligation to society to minimise the negative social and environmental impact of their activities. meanwhile, many initiatives are demanding the label "socially responsible". this means that consumers cannot see the forest through the trees and any checks for the ordinary layman become a non-starter. the effects of free markets and the search for the lowest price are also destructive and are becoming widely known. in order to support the power of the consumer and the support of a single well-intentioned company, sound regulation is necessary. europe can take the lead in social responsibility by developing policies that create standards, maintain standards and ensure a level playing field. this is precisely what the report on 'corporate social responsibility' says: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it calls for mandatory reporting, chain responsibility and greater transparency on lobbyists. it also recommends that the social and environmental impact be given greater consideration in public procurement. the report is very much in favour of sustainability and i therefore support it fully.
i would like to make it clear, mr president, that my opposition to the sartori report should not be interpreted as a rejection of the equality of men and women. that is a principle which i absolutely support and which i regard as an important achievement of our european civilization. it is a principle which is currently under increasing pressure in our society because of the advance of islam in europe. there is a lot to be said about the rise of islam and its impact on our values and our civilization. unfortunately, this is not mentioned in the report. i am opposed to compulsory quotas and parities in all institutions and in the political world. i think that the compulsory quotas for women are actually offensive and i think that women do not need positive discrimination to take their rightful place in society, in the way they want and when they want.
in writing. the committee on women's rights has adopted an ambitious report on the road map for equality between men and women. the challenge for the future is to reconcile a full-time job with other ambitions in human life, such as family, social and personal commitment, for both women and men. the ppe group has voted against parts of the report here and there, either because they do not agree with our political convictions or because it is a matter of de facto competence of the member states and not of the european union. we consider equal opportunities policy to be a serious matter and we believe that this report, even if it does not contain any legislative commitments, is of sufficient importance not to include any of them. but even if we do not agree with everything that is said in this report by the committee on women's rights, we also want to send a signal that much can and must be done in the field of gender 50 years after the treaty of rome. we want equal opportunities too, let's make that clear. and we are also convinced that europe has a lot of work to do in this area. that is why our whole group voted in favour of mr sartori's report.
in writing. the european parliament rightly argues that the commission's recommendation of 18 october 2005 on the 'cross-border collective management of copyright and related rights for the benefit of lawful online music services' went too far. the music industry, parliament and the council have not been consulted and the 'soft legislative approach' proposed by the commission has already influenced market decisions, making it more than a recommendation. companies wishing to offer online music services in europe still have to negotiate rights with the copyright organisations and record companies in each country. the commission is right to say that this can be done more simply. however, the recommendation opens the way to a total free market, which may lead to the loss of cultural diversity and local repertoires. it is more in the interest of collective rights managers to attract the most profitable rights holders. the commission is putting commercial interests ahead of cultural diversity. parliament called for controlled competition by setting clear conditions such as equal treatment of authors, a fair and transparent system of competition which avoids downward pressure on authors' incomes and fair representation of all stakeholders in the management structures. this report is about unity in diversity and i therefore support it.
mr president, i was there when the parish votes were taken. i voted in favour of both reports and unfortunately i forgot to put my card in the little box, so my vote was not recorded. i wish that was noted.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and the european union has also expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. i have been digging into earlier texts on this subject and i have come across the 13 practical steps agreed at the 2000 npt review conference. that was barely seven years ago. looking at those steps, i cannot help but conclude that we have not really made progress, but rather have made a setback. it is clear that the horrific attacks of 11 september 2001 and all that followed have effectively brought serious disarmament efforts in general and nuclear disarmament in particular to a halt. i regret that very much. i am also very concerned about this and, on a personal level, because this is not a group position until further notice, i would like to say that i am also concerned about initiatives with regard to the member states, the czech republic and poland. i too wonder if this could be the beginning of a new arms race. that's the last thing we need. i have noted with satisfaction the assurance given to us by the presidency that a common position will be worked out by all the member states in view of the conference next april. i hope, mr president, that you will succeed in doing so, because the lack of real consensus among the eu member states led to the weak result in 2005. i hope that doesn't happen again.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the proposal. the speed with which you have responded, commissioner, and the freshness with which you have approached the policy, is something which pleases us in the ppe-de group. we share the view of other colleagues that if you succeed in putting the consumer at the centre of internal market policy, that would be a good thing, because it would give the european project a heart - some would say a soul - again. we need to get to the point where we have broad public support for the integration projects we are working on. we must of course wait for the concrete proposals. i am referring to the content of those proposals, because you have indeed drawn up a list. but two things stand out. first, the legal remedies. what measures do you envisage to improve enforceability and consumer redress compared to today? and secondly: i am also concerned about maximum harmonization, when you talk about uniform legislation, more uniform legislation. how do you see us doing that in practice? is it your dream to go to maximum harmonization or do you have something else in mind?
i welcome your reply and i would ask you to excuse me for insisting on one point. i am very concerned to see that the commission, despite all your efforts, is unable to enforce the regulation: for example, airlines refuse to pay the compensation provided for and the national bodies responsible for monitoring the application of the regulation do not fulfil their role, all without any sanction. is it not an admission of failure for the commission that it is a consumer organization that has to, for example, determine with a tour operator the compensation to be granted to hundreds of passengers who are out of work in belgium, as happened during the christmas holidays last year? do you think that, with your adjustments, the commission will be able to react better in the future to any inconvenience caused in this area?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to start by congratulating my colleague bernadette bourzai, an alternate member of the parliament's committee on agriculture, whose commitment and involvement are to be commended. i would like to continue by congratulating the commission on its excellent proposal which is likely to bring more clarity to the trade in veal, which will make it possible to inform the consumer better. the proposal is the result of a long negotiation process in the member states and the trade associations concerned to provide consumers with more information and to allow fairer competition between the various producers. most of these were penalized by a name covering a product, the calf, whose physiological evolution caused great differences in a few months because of its speed. in a few weeks, the calf changes from a monogastric mammal, when it feeds almost exclusively on milk, to a four-stomached ruminant mammal when it starts eating fiber-rich foods such as grass, hay, and grains. it is easy to imagine the obvious consequences of this change on the dietary and nutritional composition of meat, including: different vitamin content, white, pink or red colour of meat due, in particular, to the fact that iron is absent from milk but present in plants. but to put on an equal footing and call veal meat from an animal less than six to eight months old that has been raised on milk and meat from an animal 14 or 16 months old that eats, ruminates, does not allow either the consumer or the producer to find out the reality of what they are eating. within the european area, this harmonization, which makes it possible to differentiate between veal and young bovine meat, and this without prejudicing the quality of either, is an important step towards respect for the consumer and producers and expresses our concern for a healthier and more balanced diet for more responsible consumers.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr commissioner, as a belgian socialist member of the european parliament, i think it is really important to take part in this debate tonight, also because this debate is being held in response to a petition by the royal belgian society for the protection of birds which collected over 200,000 signatures on the subject of bird hunting in malta. this is an international problem, ladies and gentlemen. in malta, thousands of migratory birds are shot or captured each year. this is all the more so since malta is one of the few resting places for migratory birds when they cross the mediterranean. what good is it to europe's countries to invest a lot of money and energy in protective measures under the habitats and birds directives if the same birds are shot on their way across borders? i would like to say to my maltese colleagues: malta has indeed obtained a number of transitional measures in the accession treaty until 2008, but these relate only to the capture of birds for breeding purposes in order to maintain the species. so, animal welfare measures. under no circumstances does this transitional measure allow the hunting of migratory birds in spring. the european commission has made it clear in its notice of failure that malta is in breach of the birds directive on this point and no exceptions can be made. the report of the committee on petitions' fact-finding mission by mr libicki in june 2006 also denounces the large-scale hunting of migratory birds and concludes that the derogation from the birds directive that malta has decided on its own should be ended. i therefore think it is extremely important that the european parliament supports the commission in the procedure and convinces malta to respect the birds directive and thus not to allow hunting of migratory birds this spring. this case, ladies and gentlemen, may be of the utmost importance for breaches of the birds directive which are also being found elsewhere in the european union.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. allow me to inform the house of the results of the spring summit following our debate on the berlin declaration. i like to do this and let me get right to it although it was just noticed that we praise ourselves too often anticipate: from the presidency's point of view - and from my own point of view - this was indeed a successful council meeting, a summit which gave answers in areas where i believe citizens are right to expect decisive european action, a summit which showed that the european union can act in spite of all the obstacles, also in a wider context, and that the member states - supported and pushed forward by the commission and parliament - are able to overcome their differences and set themselves ambitious common objectives, even if the decisions taken individually may not always be easy. it was also a summit that showed that the union is ready to face the pressing challenges of the future, a summit that gives impetus, that gives courage, that we can succeed in giving new life to the stalled process of reform and renewal of the european union in the coming months. this is the message of our last summit, along with the concrete internal results, which i shall of course deal with shortly, and it is the signal we want to take up in two weeks' time - we were just talking about this - when we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the union in berlin and throughout europe. this is the impetus we want to carry into the second half of our presidency. the spring meeting - you know it - focused on energy and climate policy. both these issues are rightly high on the list of concerns of the people of europe, and it is precisely the last few years and months - most recently the oil dispute between belarus and russia - that have made us aware once again of how dependent we are on energy imports, how vulnerable the european economy is to issues like these. just as obvious -- you just said that -- are the consequences of climate change. environmental disasters, glacier melting, sea level rise, drought -- these are no longer abstract buzzwords, they have become very real threats. international studies are documenting the cost of not acting now, the cost we are imposing on our children and grandchildren if we remain passive. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. with their decisions, the heads of state or government have opened the door to an ambitious and, in my view, responsible climate and energy policy in europe, a policy which no longer glosses over the scale of the problems we face but seeks effective strategies to tackle them. we have taken a big step towards an integrated climate and energy policy integrated because one cannot exist without the other; because by far the biggest climate risk today is the production, the consumption of energy by humans. this is of course particularly true of greenhouse gas emissions. the eu remains a leader in international climate action with the decisions taken in brussels. they give us a credible start on the forthcoming negotiations on the successor agreement to the kyoto protocol. the eu unilaterally and independently commits to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990. this is an ambitious goal and it will require a great effort from all member states to achieve it. the heads of state or government went further: we have even promised a 30% reduction over the same period, provided that other industrialized countries and economically advanced developing countries follow suit. we can only achieve these objectives if we also set ourselves on the road to the future in terms of energy policy. this is why a comprehensive energy action plan was agreed in brussels, alongside the climate targets. the action plan has two objectives at its heart: the aim is to reduce energy consumption within the european union by 20% by 2020 as a result of increased energy efficiency and, crucially, to increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption to at least 20%. you remember we were just having a big fight about the binding of the last target. some member states expressed reservations that this requirement might be too ambitious. i am very glad that we were able to agree on the commitment at the end, because it is precisely in these three objectives that the link between climate and energy policy is clear. without the efforts made in renewable energy and energy efficiency, the eu would clearly not be able to achieve its climate target. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. we will have to take account of the different starting points and the possibilities of the member states, and the commission has been asked - and has accepted - to submit a proposal for this division later this year. this is not the place to present the energy action plan in all its parts. i think that an overall assessment here in this house is more important, and it is here that, in addition to the objectives i have just set out, we must also note, above all, the strategic guidelines adopted in the areas of the internal energy market, security of supply, international energy policy, energy research and new energy technologies. i would like to draw attention to one aspect of these five examples: security of supply in the medium and long term will only be achieved if we succeed in diversifying energy sources and transport routes. in concrete terms, this means: intensifying relations with the major producing countries, developing sustainable external energy relations, including with the countries of central asia and the countries bordering the black and caspian seas, and of course also maintaining our energy relations with the gulf states and north africa. but it also means reliable and transparent energy relations, including with russia. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the results of climate change and energy policy are of particular importance. the european council has not, however, - as you will see in the conclusions - confined itself to this. the spring summit is traditionally a review of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, and it is important to start by: the reformed lisbon strategy is taking effect. there are visible successes across europe in rising growth and falling unemployment, but the message is that this is not the time to sit on our hands. quite the opposite! we want to take advantage of the positive momentum: i see no alternative to continuing structural reforms and consolidating public budgets. the european internal market must be developed and completed in important areas - i will mention here again electricity and gas, postal services, but also financial markets. this includes - as one of the conclusions of last friday - the reduction of the deficit in the implementation of community law. we have made good progress in this area in recent years. i would remind you that the implementation deficit was 3% in 2000, today it is only 1.2% and we know that efforts must continue. the european council therefore decided last friday to reduce this deficit further to 1% by 2009. the lisbon strategy will only be successful in the eyes of citizens if it succeeds in developing the social dimension too - this is particularly true in the light of the positive developments on the labour markets. in this context, the heads of state or government stressed the importance of fair working conditions, workers' rights and opportunities for participation, safety and health at work and family-friendly work organisation. i would like to emphasize another element of the decisions: better regulation and reduction of bureaucratic burdens. we have made some progress in this area in the past, but we must not, of course, let our efforts in the future be slack. in particular, we want to reduce the administrative burden of eu rules, the so-called red tape, by 25% by 2012, and member states are invited to set similarly ambitious national targets over the next year. in the final press conference on friday, president barroso said what i think was a very friendly, almost flattering word about the council meeting which had just ended: in terms of the results and the objectives formulated, this was the most important summit he had attended during his term of office. i say that in front of this house. this success, mr commissioner, would not have been possible without the excellent preparatory work of the commission, but also without the support of the european parliament, for which you, mr pöttering, as its newly elected president, attended a council meeting for the first time. the european union is on the way to a modern and future-oriented climate and energy policy. the heads of state or government have shown that europe can take a leading role in important global issues. the message of the summit is, in my view, that if we europeans join forces, if we act together, we can successfully shape the future. the german presidency's motto, which we also adopted as a guiding principle before the conclusions and which i mentioned in the debate, is: europe succeeds together! (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! the commission thanks the european council and the german presidency for the far-reaching and courageous objectives set by the european council last week, and we thank you for the unmistakable signal you have given to the rest of the world, which has been registered with great attention throughout the world: the signal that we in europe are serious about climate protection, about developing a common energy policy and about defending our competitiveness. and last but not least, an important outcome of this council was that those who claimed that a union of 27 member states was no longer capable of acting were wrong. this was the first major challenge for the union of 27, and i believe it has met it. it was a good summit for our european policy of the partnership for growth and jobs in the framework of the lisbon strategy. the heads of state or government acknowledged that the new strategy was delivering the expected results and had made an important contribution to the economic recovery, which was reflected in an upward trend in gross domestic product growth of 2.9% in 2006. we now expect seven million new jobs to be created in the european union in the next two years alone, and we will indeed come very close to achieving the original lisbon targets of the year 2000. the heads of state or government have made it clear that we cannot be satisfied with the first signs of a stronger economic dynamic. i agree with what mr steinmeier has just said: europe now has a great opportunity to increase the pace of reform once again. we haven't made the turn yet. the negative trend has slowed down, it is true, but we have not yet succeeded. all we can say is that we're on the right track. this is also reflected in the european council's support for the country-specific recommendations, which the commission has adopted for the first time. please do not underestimate that in a field of their exclusive competence, member states have accepted that the commission has put forward country-specific recommendations for their national agendas and that these recommendations have been adopted unanimously by the european council without debate. this shows that for the first time we have a functioning mechanism of economic policy coordination in europe. this year we are already preparing for the next three-year cycle of growth and employment policy, and the commission already sees three clear needs. firstly, we will have to fully integrate climate and energy policy into european growth and employment policy. it must be a one-time policy. secondly, it will be absolutely necessary to strengthen the third pillar of this strategy, the employment pillar, the social dimension, with particular emphasis on improving the employability of people in europe. what we are seeing is a new development. we will increasingly lack adequately trained workers in certain regions and sectors. we must increase employability, above all by strengthening education and training. the third major task in the context of the lisbon review will be to increase its visibility. it's called "do good and talk about it". perhaps we talk a little too little about the fact that we have a european answer to the global economic challenge, and it should be much more embedded in the national political debate that european integration, common european economic action is the answer we need to keep our competitiveness in global competition. on simplification of legislation and reduction of red tape - a subject which is particularly close to my heart - just a quick word: it is important that parliament and the council have been asked to make even greater use of impact assessments in the future. the quality of legislation is the key to the whole project. the prerequisite for this is good impact cost estimates. the whole project of simplifying legislation and cutting red tape has now really taken off in all its parts. i am very grateful to the council for supporting the commission's objective of reducing by 2012 25% of the bureaucratic costs on european businesses induced by european legislation. but it is at least as important that the member states have committed themselves to do the same in their own area of responsibility. that was the argument that was at issue. it is a great success that this has been achieved. the objective of achieving an overall reduction of 25% in bureaucratic costs for enterprises by 2012 now seems to be within reach. i would like to make it clear once again, here in the european parliament: when we talk about cutting red tape costs, we mean nothing less than paperwork for the companies. the report is concerned with reporting obligations, statistical obligations, information obligations and documentation obligations. in no case are consumer protection standards, quality standards, environmental standards, safety standards or social standards even touched upon. it's not about changing the substance, it's about making it so that it doesn't put unnecessary strain on the companies, but releases energy. (applause from the centre) when tony blair said a while ago that if the european union did not exist, it would have to be invented, he was probably referring to decisions such as those taken by the european council just a few weeks after the alarming facts of the latest un climate report became known. with the support of the european parliament and on the basis of the commission's january proposals, it succeeded in making climate change and the energy transition a priority of european policy and in adopting an action plan for the next three years. the strength of the decisions lies in the fact that they have succeeded in closely linking climate and energy policy. reducing greenhouse gas emissions goes hand in hand with a competitive, secure and sustainable energy policy. the strength of the decisions lies in their credibility, because they are not suspended in a vacuum, but are linked to a concrete package of measures. mandatory renewable energy targets, as well as the targeted promotion of energy savings and new carbon capture and storage technology, will set the european economy up for the global challenges of the 21st century in terms of climate policy. we will continue to reduce the existing barriers to renewable energy and energy efficiency in all industrial sectors, with a view to achieving a 20% share of renewable energy in general and a biofuel share of at least 10% by 2020. i think i have heard what foreign minister steinmeier has just said as president of the council in relation to the commission's mandate to submit a proposal by the end of the year. i can assure you that the commission will put forward a fair and balanced proposal on how to distribute the burden within the european union, taking into account what individual member states have already done, what their starting positions are and what their conditions are for meeting this objective at all. i'm sure we can do this. the important thing is that we finally achieve a functioning internal market for electricity and gas for the benefit of consumers, which will stimulate investment and create a genuine european interconnected network. with these steps, new global markets will open up for us. the energy bill of every citizen and every business will be relieved. we are paying too much for energy in europe today, not only because of the global situation but because of the mismanagement of our own energy supply. therefore, the consistent implementation of the new eu climate policy is also part of the fulfilment of the lisbon agenda. we propose that the advanced countries agree to reduce co2 emissions by 30% by 2020 compared to 1990. in addition, the eu is already committing itself to reducing co2 emissions by at least 20% by 2020. this puts us in a very good position for the upcoming climate negotiations. i believe that this climate double-cross will lead to a new dynamic globally that we also urgently need. we can no longer stand by and watch the us and china point fingers at each other and demand that the us take the lead. somebody's got to start now! this would certainly be an important point for the eu-us summit on 30 april this year, which the heads of state or government as well as the other foreign policy issues also addressed. let me say a word to european industry: the council's guidelines provide a clear framework for our industry and give it investment security for years to come. they can now plan their investments, they know what the policy requires of them and they can develop their strategies. we want europe to export the best and cleanest products, but not its jobs. i do not want to hear from european industry what it cannot do and what it does not think it can do. i would like to hear from european industry what it can and can do. and it turns out there's a lot more to it than she thinks. we should not forget that this is only a starting signal. this strategy must be further developed during this parliamentary term by means of concrete community projects and individual legislative projects. we have the support of the citizens of europe. we know from the recent eurobarometer survey that europe's citizens are acutely aware that a change of direction is inevitable. you are also aware that decisive action will not be in vain. let me summarize . the lisbon strategy is an open and dynamic process. we need a marketplace of ideas that can then be translated into concrete political decisions. in this connection, let me quote a report by the centre for european reform: there is hardly a european country that does not examine the danish model of flexicurity, the finnish path to higher education, or the british liberalisation strategy. i can add more examples, such as the french "pôles de compétitivité", the dutch standard cost model, tax reforms in some of the new member states. mutual learning is a key element of this reform process. the european partnership for growth and jobs is the european answer to the two great questions of our time: the great social question of how to provide good and sufficient jobs in the age of globalisation, and the great ecological question of how to keep our planet habitable. we know that people are asking these very questions: will i keep my job? will i still receive benefits if i am sick? will i be able to educate my children? will i be cared for in my old age? we also know that they are asking the question: what will the future be like for my children and grandchildren? here is the answer to these questions, but it is important that you also show the citizens of europe that this answer can only be a european answer! if ever there was a need to demonstrate why we need european integration, here are the two themes that show that european integration is an indispensable necessity in the 21st century too! thank you, thank you. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, normally we get conclusions after a long summit in which we have to dig deep to find the ambitions of the 27 member states. this time the conclusions are relatively short, but they do set a good example. the european spring summit has met the high expectations. vision is linked to political courage, ambition is linked to feasibility, credibility and, not least, decisiveness. the ppe-de group would first of all like to pay tribute to the president of the council, chancellor angela merkel, and her team, and also to president barroso and his commission, especially commissioners dimas and piebalgs, who have launched the energy and climate package and have done everything to achieve good results. we are indeed proud, i cannot help saying so, that the ppe-de alliance at the top of our institutions, of course in cooperation with other partners, has produced great prospects. but the loot hasn't arrived yet. the commitments have been made, but the division of the burdens and the appetites is still to come, and i wish the commission every success in this difficult task. i hope that all member states and all sections of society will be prepared to do their part in the necessary uninterrupted efforts. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). as european partners, we must now apply maximum pressure and unison to our global partners to join us in this ambitious but above all necessary story. if i may compare our pre-spring-stop ppe-de principles with their results, i shall come to the following conclusion. we preferred feasible, binding agreements to unrealistic, lofty castles in the air. the 20-20-20 decision has done that. this is a great success. research and development in the field of renewable energy and the fight against climate change go hand in hand with the lisbon objectives of growth and jobs. it is good, commissioner verheugen, to include this explicitly. nuclear energy has its place in the energy mix for most of our group, but like the european council we want to make the subsidiarity principle play its part here. since the european parliament cannot remain on the sidelines of the climate change narrative, we would like to give our full support to the establishment of a well-functioning temporary parliamentary committee on climate change. ladies and gentlemen, the emphasis at this spring summit was on energy and climate, but he was obviously talking about much more. the need to keep the pressure on the boiler of socioeconomic reforms remains strong. we believe that the lisbon process is beginning to bear fruit, but there is no reason to be euphoric, especially in those member states with high public debt, low labour force participation or not fully secured pension systems. the ppe group warns against complacency. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we expect the commission to continue to show leadership and to confront member states frankly and openly, if necessary, with their tricks and shortcomings. we very much welcome the decisions on measurable reductions in administrative burdens and the prospect of an independent impact study on new legislation. colleagues, vision and ambition for good policy is one thing, convincing people of this and getting involved is another. the crucial question remains how we can increase the involvement of europeans in this whole lisbon process. commissioner verheugen has rightly referred to it. the fact that the conclusions of the summit say that further efforts are needed to improve communication is good, but of course it does not put the matter on the back burner. it just has to happen and in this area the last few years have been missed opportunities, really missed many opportunities. that is why i call on the presidents of our three political institutions: the european parliament has been a key player in the negotiations on the berlin declaration, and it has been a key player in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. give them confidence and faith in the added value of our common european project!
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external relations. the euromed countries supply most of the immigrants in most of the european member states and it should therefore be obvious that there is also talk within euromed and more talk about a number of specific problems. there is the problem of illegal immigration, of asylum seekers who have been processed and are allowed back into their country by some of the euromed partners, but with great difficulty. the same applies to the cooperation we should expect from the other side of the mediterranean to make it more difficult and discourage illegal immigration. we must also put the problem of the rise of muslim fundamentalism on the agenda, both with our partners in euromed and in europe itself. another issue is the lack of integration of many immigrants in europe, and here too there should be a positive impulse from the countries of origin. for example, it should be possible to speak of immigrants who take on the nationality of their host country but who at the same time want or, rather, must retain their original nationality. commissioner mandelson has just spoken about managing and controlling legal immigration. well, i think it is high time we dared to say that we do not need any new immigration and that the re-migration of people with adaptation problems should no longer be a taboo.
in writing. the fact that a resolution like this is being tabled in the plenary of our parliament could easily have been avoided. malta could simply have abolished the spring hunt and thereby complied with the provisions of the birds directive. but after countless parliamentary initiatives and legal action by the european commission, the country still acts as if its nose is bleeding. it looks as if it will again allow hunters to take down numerous protected migratory birds during the spring. this price shooting serves no higher purpose than the out-of-control hobby of the local hunters. it is a threat to the diversity and conservation of bird species throughout the european union. the representatives of the hunters categorically call those who oppose the spring hunt 'fascists'. they are aggressively threatening their own government, their representatives and their police apparatus. we cannot allow that in this union. the maltese government may be offended by this resolution. but it could also feel empowered by the support of the whole of europe in taking measures to abolish the spring hunt. for that last reason, i fully support this resolution.
mr president, i voted against the voggenhuber report because once again this parliament is sweeping the floor with referendums in the netherlands and france on the european constitution. how else can you describe it? despite the fact that the charter of fundamental rights has never been a legally binding text and that it can never be after the rejection of the constitution in these two countries, this politically correct catalogue is being re-introduced through numerous back doors. this is unacceptable both legally and politically. the official europe is clearly united in its contempt for national democracies. the dutch, for example, were recently told by commission president barroso that they should finally adopt the constitution. the citizens may continue to vote, but in the end it is the european mandarins who decide. anyone who thinks that such arrogance will reduce the euroscepticism of our citizens is gravely mistaken.
author. ladies and gentlemen, two years ago i spoke about the human rights situation in cambodia. two points in this joint resolution by six groups in parliament particularly attract my attention. the first, which i would like to stress today, is the assassination on 24 february of hy vuthy, the president of the free trade union of cambodian workers. this murder is in addition to the 2004 murders of chea vichea and ros sovannareth, who had been presidents of the same union, as well as the acts of intimidation and physical attacks that other union members have been subjected to in recent years. the right to form a trade union is recognized in cambodia but recent incidents suggest that this right is being violated. it is inconceivable that people cannot freely join a trade union without suffering the consequences. the murder of chea vichea remains unsolved to this day. born samnang and sok sam oeun were arrested, found guilty of the murder of the trade unionist and sentenced to twenty years' imprisonment without any proof of their guilt being produced. we want the real perpetrators of these murders to be found and brought to justice and for born samnang and sok sam oeun to receive a fair trial. the second point i wanted to stress today is the khmer rouge tribunal. during my mission to cambodia in april 2006, i was able to see the expectations of the cambodian people in relation to this court. today, one year after our visit, the court is still not set up. it is essential that it be put in place without delay so that all the unpunished crimes of the khmer rouge are finally brought to justice. finally, we welcome the efforts to stabilise the situation and the smooth running of the electoral process. it seems essential that the kingdom of cambodia continue its efforts and place particular emphasis on the functioning of the judiciary, which we found, after our mission last year, to be the weak link in the system.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to say that i am very pleased. this report on organic protection and labelling of organic products is finally being debated in plenary at an important moment, since the vote in the committee on agriculture on 27 february coincided with a demonstration by the agro-biologists who were rightly complaining about the new specifications for organic farming which aimed and is aiming to tolerate 0.9% contamination, as in conventional farming. this report, the fruit of the hard work of mrs aubert, which i welcome, is therefore extremely important for the whole sector and offers a unique opportunity for parliament to distance itself from the council and the commission. it is essential, especially now, to send a strong signal to ensure that organic production is properly protected. to this end, i tabled amendment no 170 on behalf of the pse group, which reads as follows: 'member states should have an adequate legislative framework, based on the precautionary principle and the polluter-pays principle, to eliminate any risk of contamination of organic products by gmos. operators are responsible for taking all necessary precautions to avoid any risk of accidental or technically unavoidable contamination by gmos. the presence of gmos in organic products shall be limited exclusively to unforeseeable and technically unavoidable volumes up to a maximum value of 0,1%.' in short, it is just as important not to distort the very essence of organic production by imposing too high a tolerance for accidental contamination as it is to maintain a minimum level that is acceptable and accepted by the sector, so as not to penalise the organic farmer who is accidentally contaminated and whose production would be totally downgraded if zero tolerance were to be applied. in addition, we support the use of natural nitrogen fertilisers and any other natural mineral fertilisers and therefore propose, by amendments nos 168 and 169, to delete the passage in article 8 (1) (d) which prohibits the use of nitrogen fertilisers. finally, i fully share the positive view of the legal affairs committee of the parliament to apply the dual legal basis, articles 37 and 95 of the treaty, because there is a double advantage in also referring to the internal market jurisdiction. firstly, this report, which was voted on in the committee on agriculture, would be extended to the whole of the catering sector - caterers, community kitchens, canteens, restaurants - and to certain products such as food supplements. secondly, thanks to the internal market, we would move from a consultation procedure to a codecision procedure, which would give us a vital say in the drafting of this regulation which will directly affect the quality of food for the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to agree with the main points of the excellent report by our colleague, alain lamassoure, which was very well represented by our colleague, mr böge. first, we agree on the method. our rapporteur has clearly understood that the reform of the union's financing would not take place against the agreement of the member states, that is to say without the consent of the national parliaments. we have to keep in touch with them because we have to convince them. secondly, and this is the main point, we agree on the structure of the report which proposes a comprehensive reform, but in two phases. the first and most urgent phase is to clean up the present system of all the pathologies it has accumulated over the years. no more of these little friend-friend gifts, no more of the discounts, the discounts on discounts, the exemptions, the caps, the pitiful bargaining. cleanup is the priority. as for the second phase, we shall have occasion to discuss it later. one last word, madam president. the priority for us is the constitutional treaty. if this budget debate were to make it more difficult, we should have the courage to postpone it.
madam president, mr böge, i think that the work done by alain lamassoure and the committee on budgets is useful. we share his criticisms and have long shared the central idea of the need for a new system of own resources. i would like to express my deep disappointment, particularly with regard to paragraphs 28 et seq., which, in my view, attempt to reassure the people, but on the basis of a false realism. it is a false realism to say that the tax sovereignty of the member states must be maintained when in fact there is no such tax sovereignty because of the tax competition within the union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income is a very good one. and finally, false realism about the order of magnitude of the budget. on this point, i would like to take the opportunity to say that i am totally wrong about the argument put forward by mr mulder, that we do not have enough money. no, we don't have enough money for life+. no, we don't have enough money for foreign policy. no, we don't have enough money for education and research policy. and no, we do not have enough money for transeuropean networks. that was one of the positions of parliament and i cannot understand why we should go backwards in an own-initiative report.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, dear friends of football and sport, i am very pleased to represent the commission here tonight for the debate on football. i think this constitutes further proof that parliament is committed to sport. the support you give to our initiatives for sport is of course both welcome and needed. i would like to start by congratulating both rapporteurs, mr belet and mr catania, on the quality of their work. the two reports treat football from different angles, but they both illustrate the nature of sport, its values, its potential for education, for society and for the economy. before speaking on the more detailed aspects of the reports, let me say a few words on the white paper. this is going to be an essential piece of work for the future of european sport. the white paper on sport is due to be adopted in july this year. this will be the culmination of a long process and should be seen in the light of wider political considerations. plans for a white paper are driven by the expectations of sport stakeholders. they wish to see their concerns addressed by eu policymakers, including the need to better promote sport and to achieve more legal certainty. the white paper will cover all sports, and there will be no football-specific approach. the ultimate goal of this initiative is first to mainstream sport into other active policies of the union in order to improve its use as a tool for eu policy. secondly, we are aiming to set conditions for improved governance in european sport. the main topics of the white paper will be the social and economic role of sport, the organisation of sport and governance issues. we will pay great attention to parliament’s reports when preparing the white paper. the commission has been following the committee’s work very closely and this has already given us very useful input. on mr belet’s report, the commission welcomes parliament’s initiative on the future of professional football. we share many of the concerns expressed in the report. the white paper will address many of the issues which mr belet raises, such as social cohesion, protection of young workers, social dialogue and the free movement of workers. as your draft report acknowledges, it is extremely difficult to establish a comprehensive european legal framework recognising the specificity of sport, but eu case law does recognise the specificity of sport and the social and educational role played by football in europe. concerning the free movement of workers, for example, the court held that sport is only subject to community law when it constitutes an economic activity. this covers both professional and amateur athletes, and the court made an exception to the general rule of non-discrimination for matches which are of purely sporting rather than economic interest, for example, games between national teams. on the issue of home-grown players, the commission is very sensitive to the measures proposed by uefa. we could share the idea of promoting the training of young people, as well as sending a signal to the clubs that they should invest in the training of young people and not only in transfers of players. however, we are still considering the question of quotas of locally-trained players, including from the angle of proportionality. the commission welcomes parliament’s call for intensified social dialogue in the football sector. this is a good mechanism for addressing issues such as mobility, work contracts and working conditions. we have supported the social partners’ efforts to develop a more structured dialogue where football has taken the lead at european level. the commission will continue to support employers’ and employees’ organisations in the whole sport sector and it will continue its open dialogue with all sport organisations on this issue. in conclusion, the commission will give due and realistic consideration to your recommendations in line with current eu areas of responsibility. the request for the commission to draw up an action plan to define the issues to be tackled deserves careful consideration. on mr catania’s report, i want to underline first that sport can be a positive force for education, culture and social integration. but in recent years we have seen unfortunate and growing signs of violence and hooliganism during sporting events. two weeks ago sport ministers discussed the issue in stuttgart. they underlined the need for improved prevention measures, in particular encouraging cooperation between all those involved, including the supporters. the commission has concentrated on promoting exchanges of experience and good practice among member states so as to develop better police and judicial cooperation. we have established good working contacts with uefa and other sporting authorities. in terms of public order and police control, i think everyone was pleased with the excellent results of football matches during the world cup in germany last year. it shows that good preparation and coordination with other member states are very effective in preventing crime and especially hooliganism. the first statistics show that the crime rate did not increase at all during that period. council decision 2002/348/ec obliges member states to establish national football information points. this is a positive step in improving cooperation between police forces and other bodies that combat football-related violence. the austrian initiative that mr catania’s report addresses aims at replacing the existing network of information points with a specific network of national football information points. these would have access to the personal data of hooligans or ‘risk supporters’ identified by the different member states. the commission welcomes the report’s support for this initiative and takes due note of the concerns expressed on human rights and data protection, to which, as you know, the commission attaches great importance. in conclusion, it is a positive result that sport is now truly on the agenda at european level. the 50th anniversary of the rome treaties is colouring many of our objectives this year, and what a good way it was to celebrate the anniversary with a football match in manchester two weeks ago. there could be no stronger signal that sport and sporting values are truly appreciated at the highest political level.
- i'm the reporter. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, some people are quite surprised when you associate europe, the european union, with sport. and then, predictably, they always say, the eu has no competence in sport and should not try to do anything about it. that statement, ladies and gentlemen - we all know it - is wrong, and the people involved know it very well. sport, and especially professional sport, and the commissioner has already said it, and that is what we are talking about here, is in all respects in contact with european regulations anyway. in particular, the economic aspects of professional football are subject to it. the commission is involved and the european court of justice is involved. that has been conclusively proven in recent years. professional football, my fellow players, is obviously big business. no one's denying that. but it's so much more. it has important social and educational functions and that is why we emphasize in this report the specific approach that is necessary. the specific nature of sport is enshrined in the declaration of nice and the protocol to the amsterdam treaty. no one can get around that. it is therefore our duty to take this into account when applying eu rules. no one is asking for exceptional measures or so-called group exemptions. what we do ask is this: i think that the commission should issue guidelines. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we want the autonomy of professional sport to be fully respected. self-regulation is the central concept in this report, but that does not deny us the right to push the evolution in a certain direction. professional football has been damaged by scandals in many countries in the eu in recent months, and there is only one answer: the good governance. we therefore call on the governing bodies of uefa, the football leagues and the clubs concerned to make a firm commitment to transparency in their policies. many members of this parliament, many colleagues, also want more solidarity and redistribution of resources, of the money in football. i don't think it's up to us to start redistributing the money in pro football. it is in the interests of the professional clubs, the leagues and the federations themselves to take measures in this respect. football needs competitive balance. it's under more pressure than ever. the gap between the big clubs, which are getting richer and richer, and the smaller clubs is widening. if you do not see that, my dear colleagues, you are blind. this development threatens the future of sport, which is so dear to all of us, and it also threatens the social, integrating function of sport, i should say. therefore, commissioner, and i want to emphasize it again - you have already referred to it - we have and will continue to be 100% in favour of the home grown rule that uefa has introduced for locally trained players. obliging professional clubs - not from here, but from the football authorities themselves - to invest in the training of their own youth is essential for the social component. and that's why it deserves our maximum support, i think. one of the most sensitive issues is the sale of television rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the only thing we ask in this report is that the competent authorities and the competent bodies of football should come together to find a solution which guarantees greater solidarity between the big clubs and the small ones. that seems reasonable and responsible. we are counting on the commission, commissioner, president, to take due account of what is contained in this report and what will hopefully be adopted tomorrow when it draws up its white paper on sport. we have taken the utmost account of the eu's powers in this area. there is no point in being naive, especially when it comes to a complex sector like professional football, in which millions of young people are directly involved. we are counting, commissioner, on an ambitious document from the commission and i think, i assume, and you can be sure, that in return you can count on the loyal support of this house.
president, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the return of chamberlain and deladier from munich in 1938 and the words spoken at that time: we bring you peace in our time belong to the darkest pages not only of europe's history but also of the world's history. let it be clear to everyone that we are very keenly and very painfully aware of this. that said, this debate, for which i would like to thank the high representative and all the members, is a very interesting debate, because it shows through the interventions of both sides how great is the risk that we will be exploited. one by washington, the other by russia. you choose. but in any case, we are in great danger of being torn apart by these two superpowers. what matters now is to prevent that. we must avoid a situation in which we immediately choose a side, then refuse to move, and then allow a whole spiral to develop again, which could potentially be a new arms race. we are at a point where we can prevent this, if we are careful not to be exploited and look at what is best for all of us together and what is best for the world and for world peace. i am a member of a generation - although i am not a direct pacifist - for whom words such as disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation were extremely important and we have tried to act on them, and i would therefore like to thank you, mr high representative, for speaking quite extensively on these subjects; i wish you the best and tell you that you can count on our support. one thing that struck me in your presentation was the elegance with which you have described the discussions in the un security council on the future resolution on kosovo. can you tell me more about that?
mr president, mr high representative, the agreement reached in mecca between fatah and hamas was unthinkable last december when a delegation from parliament visited palestine and israel. the establishment of a government of national unity is almost a miracle, but of course it is probably no accident that we know some of its members so well. many welcomed this political breakthrough. the european parliament also reacted. last week the committee on foreign affairs voted a draft opinion calling for the lifting of economic sanctions on the palestinian people. it also adopted the rocard report on relations between europe and the arab world, which will be voted on this afternoon and which once again calls for dialogue and openness. yesterday a letter signed by meps in favour of recognition of the new government was handed to the visiting palestinian minister of culture in brussels, and the signatories, including josep borrell, former president of the parliament, are neither enthusiasts nor enemies of israel. they are peace-loving men and women who know that the holes of hope are so rare that they must be held fast. the words of prime minister haniyeh's inauguration do not exactly fit the quartet's terms, but they do reflect the spirit of the quartet. you have to be able to take that chance. all paths lead to peace if we really want it, whether it is the road map or the beirut initiative. you have just returned from riyadh, mr. high representative, and we thank you for your action. you know that the offer this time is serious and that you must be able to seize this opportunity. we must, we ask you, convince israel and the americans. we should not, by selective measures against the new palestinian government, try to separate the wheat from the chaff and isolate hamas from fatah. this would again threaten the palestinian unity, which is guaranteed against civil wars. mr president, i am not going to hide from you that in the last year we have been puzzled by european policy towards the palestinian territories. we didn't want that. we didn't want so much chaos, so much needless suffering, so much destruction. and sometimes it was hard to look in the mirror in the morning. we want to be proud of the european union again. please convey this to the council.
in writing. the new regulation will replace regulation 2092/91/eec on organic farming. the main concern remains the presence of gmos in products that will be labelled 'organic': the commission had expected that the tolerance would be 0.9% of the presence of gmos, whereas quantities from 0.1% are already detectable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the requirements of the treaty. it is therefore essential that the expectations of consumers who choose an organic product be met, that is to say, that they can be sure that their product does not contain gmos. that is why i am glad that parliament has introduced this 0.1% threshold in the aubert report. i call on the agriculture ministers in the council to review this regulation in depth in the light of the results of this vote. i also support parliament's request that this regulation be adopted by codecision between the council and parliament and i expect the commission to follow parliament in this respect, because the opinion of elected officials must prevail over that of civil servants.
in writing. a majority of european citizens (58%) continue to show their distrust of genetically modified food. the european scepticism about the presence of gmos in conventional agriculture is all the more true for organic farming. it is therefore essential that the european union promotes organic farming which meets an increasing consumer demand and which also corresponds to a move towards a drastic reform of the cap in the direction of truly sustainable development! the report by mrs aubert stresses that there are a few rules of common sense that must prevail in order to promote organic products. firstly, we must oppose the european commission's proposal for a regulation which aims to set the same accidental contamination rate at 0.9% for the various sectors. secondly, and on the contrary, as the organic sector demands and as has already been implemented by several european states or regions, a rate of incidental presence of gmos should be set as low as possible: 0.1%, which corresponds to the scientifically possible detection threshold. finally, the polluter pays principle must be applied, because there is no question of making organic farmers pay the bill for the risk of crop coexistence!
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of consumers in the event of the introduction of electronic communications networks. president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are voting tomorrow on a very important matter which is very important for people, for companies and for banks. i am glad that the european parliament has been able to give considerable weight to the decisionmaking process. i would like to thank all my colleagues for this, in particular rapporteur gauzès, who has dealt with this matter in a very objective manner with his knowledge of the sector, and also all the shadow rapporteurs. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market, i think it is very important that, in the face of 27 different payment systems and therefore also 27 different laws, we have managed to achieve a very high level of consumer protection. the text seems to me more than satisfactory, both as regards the obligation of banks to provide information and as regards the liability of banks in the event of incorrect transactions and in the event of loss or fraud of the card. the main debate was on the payment institutions and i think that the compromise is also defensible in the end, although in our group we would have preferred it to be a little stricter. there's no shame in being a bank. this directive is about payments, not primarily about credit, and if you want to grant credit, you have to meet the conditions and the control of the banks. there is one concern, however. the sepa project must not be at the expense of the small man. i am pleased to note, commissioner, that the commission has launched an inquiry into the charges for card use. i therefore call on the commission to take regulatory action if we find that the banks are abusing their dominant position on the ground. the directive comes at the right time. the project is a good project; i think it is time to implement it properly.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened carefully to the discussion on the proposal for a directive on payment services in the internal market and i would like to thank you all for your comments. we cannot establish a single market for payments without a harmonised legal framework at eu level instead of the patchwork of 27 sets of different national rules. at the same time we need more competition and innovation in payments markets. this will provide substantial benefits to our citizens, our businesses, our public administrations and our economy as a whole. quite simply, payments are the lifeblood of our economy and without an efficient payments system we cannot have an efficient single market. the issue regarding data protection was raised by the following members: mr gauzès, mrs bowles and mrs berès. i would like to say two things on this issue. firstly, the commission has already responded to parliament’s resolution of 14 february 2007 on the swift case. article 19 of the proposed directive allows the exchange of information between competent authorities responsible for protecting personal data and the authority responsible for supervising payment institutions. this corresponds to the conclusions of the article 29 working party opinion of 22 november 2006 on the processing of data by swift. secondly, the limitation of data processing to eu countries, as proposed by amendment 287, would in fact be a contradiction of the data protection directive. that directive has a specific regime for authorising the export of data to third countries if those countries provide the necessary guarantees. this regime aims at ensuring that european data protection standards are not undermined by the export of data to countries with more lenient standards. the swift case has demonstrated that we must remain vigilant on the protection of personal data. combating terrorism and terrorist financing are important. so is the protection of privacy, however, which is a fundamental principle for all eu member states. the commission will use all means at its disposal to ensure that all member states respect data protection, including the export of data to third countries. i will bring the points made here to the attention of my colleague, commissioner frattini, who is directly responsible for this area. tomorrow parliament has the opportunity to endorse the proposal which reflects the views already expressed in its lead committee’s report, which provides a legal foundation for an efficient and modern payments market. the commission fully supports a set of compromise amendments aimed at achieving this. i would once again like to thank the rapporteur, mr gauzès, and parliament for your patience in deferring this vote. i stress his conviction that your vote is a historic occasion for payments in europe.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am very pleased that we can speak today about the long-awaited regulation on medicines for novel therapies. this is a regulation of enormous importance to countless sick people in europe. these new therapies offer hope for many sick people in the hope of new life-saving treatments. i'm not talking about the common cold, i'm talking about diseases like cancer, parkinson's, aids and other terrible scourges. the commission has not yet adopted a harmonised legal framework. this means that many patients are not receiving the treatments that are available. or they're prescribed drugs that aren't safe. with this regulation, we are paving the way for easier and safer access to life-saving medicines. the proposal is also of great importance for the european research area. in the current situation, european researchers and manufacturers - often small and medium-sized enterprises - are unable to grow or compete internationally. let me say a few words about the legislative procedure: it is, of course, a matter for parliament to decide how it will handle the procedure. however, in view of the need to create clear conditions for these long-awaited innovative therapies, i would ask you to allow me to make a strong appeal to you not to delay the procedure any further and to reach a decision here. i therefore welcome all the more the fact that three groups have put forward a comprehensive compromise package to enable such a rapid agreement to be reached. i can assure the commission that we can support this whole package without any change. i think the presidency is also convinced - we shall hear about that - that the package will be adopted by the council. i am well aware that we are dealing with a particularly sensitive subject here, and we must be particularly sensitive when it comes to ethical issues of such importance. i would therefore like to make it clear once again that the sole purpose of this regulation is to ensure that patients receive safe and effective medicines. that's all we're after. the regulation does not specify whether medicinal products can be accepted from an ethical point of view. the principle of subsidiarity is strictly observed: ethical issues fall within the competence of the member states. we cannot allow the european union to impose its ethical convictions on others. you can't do that! the only way to do this is to leave ethical questions to the member states. that's the way we've always done it. this is nothing new. there has been a clear policy for years, with many examples. the proposal therefore neither imposes national authorization of ethically sensitive technologies nor does it prohibit them throughout europe. the proposal is limited to respecting national decisions. the important principles that organ and tissue donation must be voluntary and unpaid also apply. they are already firmly anchored in other legal acts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in any case, we should establish common safety standards for such products. i do not see any reason why we should accept different levels of protection in different member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. contrary to the amendments proposed by the legal affairs committee, we should not exclude ethically sensitive products, such as those derived from embryonic stem cells, from the scope of the regulation. let me say again, in all seriousness, that today we have a unique political opportunity to adopt a regulation that sick people in europe and the european pharmaceutical industry have been waiting for for a long time. we can't afford to miss this opportunity. i therefore ask all members of the european parliament to support the compromise package put forward by mrs roth-berendt, mrs ries and mr adamo on behalf of their groups and to reject the other motions. if adopted, this regulation will promote innovation, strengthen the competitiveness of our research and industry and, above all, help save lives and relieve people of serious suffering. by supporting this package, you can achieve all of this.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, mr secretary of state, the rapporteur has already done this at length, so i would not like to go into the details of innovative therapies. i would simply like to point out, as has already been said, that this is a very promising area of research and medicine, with concrete answers for the burned, for patients with venous ulcers, for diabetics, for hereditary diseases, for cardiovascular diseases, with hope also for parkinson's and alzheimer's diseases, with a response, perhaps one day, to the dramatic shortage of organs from which thousands of patients die every year in europe while waiting for donations. that is to say, there are many patients, millions, waiting for this treatment. patients, but also companies in this sector, because beyond the quality, safety and efficiency of products, beyond the access that we must guarantee to everyone, without discrimination, the commissioner recalled, this text also aims to boost research and innovation. but those who want to impose their vision of ethics and morality on us, including the rapporteur, have delayed and are still delaying the adoption of this regulation on three occasions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of embryonic stem cells and fetal stem cells, which the rapporteur wants to exclude from the centralised procedure and thus from the scope of this legislation. let me make this clear, as clear as our amendment no 62, which is in the package, and which has been approved by the legal services of the three institutions, and i would also like to point out that the member states and they alone will decide what research and what products will be available on their territory. nothing shall be imposed on them which contravenes their national legislation on ethics. i think that is the definition of subsidiarity and i am puzzled by those who want to ban these products throughout europe in the name of subsidiarity - which is a great deal - and prevent countries who wish to do so from moving forward. for this reason, i formally reject amendments nos 3 and 17 from the legal affairs committee and the package of amendments supported by mr gargani and others. my dear colleagues, the choice is simple. it is a question of our credibility and also, by the way, of the consistency of our work and our decisions. i would remind you that last june we authorised funding for embryonic stem cell research under the seventh research framework programme. i urge you today to support this compromise package tabled by the pse, my group, alde, and the gue. this package is also supported, as has not yet been said, by many of my colleagues in the epp and it is accepted, contrary to what the rapporteur has said, by the commission and the council. this package covers all technical questions; it is a compromise which reminds us that europe is not meant to legislate on ethics, because, ladies and gentlemen, if the coming years are to be the years of all revolutions, it is up to us to give them meaning, to give hope, not to kill it.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the sugar cmo in 2006 aims to reduce the quantities of sugar produced within the union in favour of preferential zero-duty imports from the acp countries, india and the western balkan countries, under the 'everything but arms' initiative. the commission rightly considers that the sugar industry in bulgaria and romania, in accordance with their traditional supply needs, should be allowed to import sugar at a preferential duty of eur 98 per tonne for two years, in order to ensure that these two countries do not suffer any damage as a result of their accession to the union and to allow their market to stabilise within the internal market. thus, in order to ensure a level playing field and to establish consistent rules governing imports, sugar imports should be limited over time to a preferential duty. following the unanimous vote in the committee on agriculture and rural development on 21 march, parliament should give its consent to the opening of tariff quotas for imports of raw cane sugar for refining into bulgaria and romania, but only for the 2006/07, 2007/08 and 2008/09 marketing years. i therefore fully support the proposal by my colleague graefe zu baringdorf to introduce quotas to achieve this dual objective of supporting the bulgarian and romanian industries and protecting the interests of european farmers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr janusz wojciechowski, on his work as rapporteur on the quota system for potato starch production. i would just like to focus on the amendments which seek to increase the production quotas for lithuania and poland. in fact, by proposing to increase the quota for lithuania from 1 211 to 4 855 tonnes, i.e. to quadruple that same quota, and from 144 985 tonnes to 180 000 tonnes for poland, although i understand the basis of amendments nos 5, 6 and 7, which is the sum of the two previous ones, since they concern small producers, i think that these amendments, if adopted, would risk opening pandora's box and giving other member states the possibility of requesting quota revisions for the commodities which concern them most. i'm thinking olive oil, milk, and we can go on and on. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, as in the committee on agriculture, i shall be advocating the adoption of this excellent report, but without the amendments proposed for the sitting. the timetable has coincided in that we are speaking in plenary this evening, on 23 april, and that we are voting on noontime tomorrow, and that in between we are having a meeting of a working party in my group on agriculture. we shall discuss this problem again with our colleagues, because there are still relatively divided views on these amendments - the fictitious rapporteur, mr golik, will not contradict me. i am sure that we will then be able to adopt our final position on these amendments as early as tomorrow morning, before the vote.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my report is on the discharge of parliament's budget. i want to deal with four points. first of all, we have been saying for years in various discharge resolutions that parliament's discharge does not only concern the management of the secretary-general or the administration, but also the policies and decisions of the administrative bodies of our house, the decisions of the president, the bureau and also the conference of presidents. we are not giving discharge to the secretary-general, but to the president of the european parliament. in this sense i think the paragraph which states that the president of the european parliament should actually be available to the committee on budgetary control during the discharge procedure to discuss the discharge in a public and formal debate is very important. i prefer my wording to the amendment tabled by mrs grässle and the epp group. i think that mrs grässle's amendment goes against what we approved last year with the ferber report. second point: the building policy. building policy is important. it is a lot of money and i would like to draw attention to the dispute between the european parliament and the belgian government. the belgian government has already promised years ago, as have other governments in countries where parliament has buildings, to ensure that the cost of the land and the preparation of the land for construction is reimbursed. there is now a dispute in brussels on this point and it is about a sum of around 15 million euros. that's a lot of money. the belgian government is not keeping its promises in this respect and that is why i am asking very explicitly in this resolution that the belgian government will do so. this means giving concrete backing to our negotiators, the president of the european parliament and the vice-president responsible for building policy. i also ask in the resolution for special attention to be paid to the impact of the european parliament on the neighbourhood in which we are staying in brussels. the residents of these areas face a great deal of traffic, working and living conditions, and i think that consultation between parliament and the residents of these areas is of the utmost importance. i think we should be good neighbours and that's why consultation is important. i therefore hope that a report will be drawn up on this before next year's budgetary allocation. the third point, a very delicate one, is the voluntary pension fund. the voluntary pension fund has an actuarial deficit of eur 28.8 million today. that's a lot of money. i admit the deficit is falling: last year, it was 43.7 million. the total amount of eur 202 million is currently held in that voluntary pension fund and that sum is invested on the stock exchange. now we all know that the stock market can be a dangerous thing and that the results on a stock market are not always positive. a stock market can be fickle. so there may be a lot of losses with that money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the 2005 budget, parliament increased this voluntary pension fund by eur 11.4 million. that is also a lot of money and i think it is normal that the list of final beneficiaries should be made public. we ask the commission to publish the list of final beneficiaries, as this is a very important item for the agricultural sector, which receives a lot of money from the european budget. everyone is for it! that's what happens! you can read that on a website. so why are we putting the brakes on when it comes to our own members of parliament? i can't do this anymore. i see from the voting list that the epp-ed group has tabled four deletion amendments and i also see that the socialist group has asked for a number of split votes. that is their democratic right. i suspect that the intention is to vote all these paragraphs out. i have asked for a majority vote in the interests of transparency, and i am announcing this now, so that those who vote against can also answer to their constituents. i think that the european parliament cannot be left to pick up the pieces at the end of the day. this is not possible, this is not a good use of money and public resources. finally, i would like to draw attention to the kyoto plus plan. the european union and the european parliament are in the forefront of the fight against climate change. we have passed good and important resolutions on this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my resolution, in my report, i therefore put forward a whole series of concrete proposals to reduce the environmental impact of our house, of our european parliament, in a much more ambitious way than has been the case so far. i would also like to announce - and i conclude here - that i fully support the two amendments tabled by mr fjellner and others.
president. - mr president, our group is also prepared to grant discharge to the commission, under the same conditions as those outlined by mr jørgensen. mr mulder has just said that it is the twelfth time in a row that the court of auditors has failed to issue a positive statement of assurance and that it cannot continue to do so. mr kallas had said during the hearing in our committee, when he was to be appointed, that it would be during his term of office, or at least that was his aim, to arrive at a positive declaration of reliability. i know that the commissioner is a little bit in a clinch with the court of auditors at the moment; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. there are indeed persistent problems, including in the agricultural sector. in this sense i welcome the statement by the commissioner on what he said about the integrated administration and control system. we all know that greece is seriously lacking here. this has already been mentioned twice in the court's annual report. there is now a concrete action plan, the commissioner has made it clear that he is prepared to suspend payments if greece does not meet the conditions, if it does not implement the action plan correctly. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i hope therefore that at least one of these two amendments will pass and that this will be a major support for the commissioner when he has to decide to suspend payments. the national declarations of control shall: i find that the council is not here. it is scandalous that in a debate on discharge, which we must also give to the council itself, at a time when we know that 80% of all financial resources are managed by the member states themselves, the council is not present, and i deeply regret that. i also support mr mulder's question to the commission: what steps has the commission taken to ensure that member states do indeed make national management declarations? in our debate with the german state secretary it was said that some of this is due to our federal structure. i can't imagine that's true, you know? i can well imagine that a federal state like belgium, for example, would say, 'ok, three of our regions are there with a declaration, two of them do not comply, one does.' why wouldn't it be? i therefore urge that positive management declarations be made, including from the member states.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, honourable members, i just have some brief comments to make. first of all, thank you all for your comments. concerning some smaller issues, such as the secondment of agents, we will investigate or study the case raised about gender mainstreaming. a pilot study is under way and it is difficult to collect information about policies linked to gender issues. i would also like to stress that interinstitutional dialogue concerning the agencies is extremely valuable, if parliament is in favour of this idea. the commission proposed an interinstitutional agreement concerning agencies in 2005 and this was blocked in the council. now, during the german presidency, you have tried to revitalise interest in this agreement. this is vital if we are to really straighten out this issue. as regards some small details, one member asked about the size of the losses from the european budget. i just want to repeat that, in exact accounting terms, the losses are those amounts of money which are written off from our balance sheet. in the year 2005, the amount was eur 90 805 147.47, which is 0.09% of our budget. this is the exact figure corresponding to the definition of losses. also, i must say to mr seppänen that the accounts for 2006 have already been signed by our chief accounting officer. those agencies are an important issue. secondly, national declarations were the main issue on which many participants touched, saying that there are problems with the shared management of eu funds. the wording from the interinstitutional agreement was included in the revised financial regulation. article 53b says that member states should produce an annual summary at the appropriate national level of the available audits and declarations. it has been agreed with the council that on 15 february 2008 a summary of audits in agriculture will be made available. the technical aspects of doing this in other areas, in particular in relation to the structural funds, are still under discussion, but there will definitely be firm results. the commission raised this issue on 27 march in ecofin and yesterday it was discussed in the council’s financial committee. we have been in contact with the german presidency and the german ministry of finance with a view to discussing again in june how we can reach a definite outcome on the issue of shared management. the main problem here, visible throughout all these discussions, is that this must be done in such a way as to provide evidence for the court of auditors. a great deal of tension could arise if the court of auditors says, ‘you can provide us with your national declaration but this does not mean anything. we will still make our checks and audits and evaluate the situation’. there must be a workable solution. from the beginning, the commission has supported the idea of shared management. we are working with national audit institutions to involve them in this process, but there must also be clear evidence for the court of auditors. it is going ahead. five countries have already declared their readiness to issue national declarations. when i compare the council meetings i attended at the beginning of this commission with the situation today, which is completely different, i see a great step forward. i would like to make one last point on an issue raised by some members. yes, there will be an intergovernmental conference. as we understand it, quite intensive preparations are being made for this intergovernmental conference. this is a situation where we can also have some input concerning this issue of discharge, perhaps from the angle mr elles referred to, or in terms of the wording of the statement of assurance. in any case, something can be done. if parliament also expresses its great interest in these possible amendments, it will definitely help to prepare the way for a positive statement of assurance.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, it is more a point of order under rule 165 of our rules of procedure. several speakers have asked why the german presidency was not present at this debate. the german presidency has come in at the end of the debate. i assume i shall be speaking in the next debate. i would like to ask the german presidency very specifically what reason it had for not taking part in the discharge debate. it is an important debate, it concerns 80% of the resources spent by the commission and the member states. several speakers have already said that. i do not think that the commission should be asked to give a discharge to the council unless i have a good reason for doing so. i would prefer that we vote against the discharge to the council so that we can have this debate again in six months' time.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe in the functioning of the internal market, including payment services. if sepa is properly implemented, it should lead to increased competition in a larger market with more security, better services and attractive prices. "best service at the lowest cost", we might call it. one caveat, though. in countries with more advanced payment markets, such as belgium - but we are not alone - there is a fear that the transposition of existing national payment schemes could lead to additional costs for business and consumers. in particular, reference is made to the level of the so-called 'interbank settlement charges'. in reply to a written question on this subject, the commission assured me that it would monitor compliance with the competition rules and reserve the right to take regulatory action if necessary. i hope that the commission will make use of the corrective mechanisms at its disposal, if necessary. i hope above all that the banking sector will be smart enough to make this unnecessary and to contribute to the best possible extent to the further unification of the internal market for financial services.
- i'm the reporter. madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i apologize for not being here to listen to you, but at the same time there is a conciliation on the railway package, of which i am also one of the rapporteurs and on which i had a rather difficult discussion with your ambassador, but i hope that it will end well. now to maritime safety. how do we avoid problems and how do we deal with accidents, incidents and disasters in shipping? that is the whole point of the package that the commission has put forward. the proposal on monitoring and airports is, i think, an important part of that. how do we avoid problems? by better controlling shipping and by having a better knowledge of what is happening in our waters. that is why we are calling in this report for stricter controls through ais, which exists, but to which we would like to add a number of things, such as crew data, ship data, but also more detailed information on cargo and fuel. hence my proposal to include marine fuel as one of the subjects to be reported in ais, because sometimes it is very large quantities of fuel that can cause a lot of damage. secondly, ais for fishing vessels. we are in favour of this in principle, but there is still a point of discussion on the size of ships required for this equipment, a point on which i, as rapporteur, do not agree with the committee on transport: i am following the european commission's recommendation to include smaller vessels from 15 metres, but the transport committee says from 24 metres. we'll see what the mood is tomorrow. the use of data, confidentiality, is an important point. we must ensure that the data is used in a positive spirit, that there is no misuse of the ais data. a chapter and a number of amendments deal with the long-range, the new generation; how do we accommodate this new generation in the safe sea net, because it is clear that the safe sea net must become the means of communication of choice between all member states and between shipping, so that all the data is known to everyone. third point: what happens in case of an accident? of course, we should prepare for such situations as well as possible in advance. there have been a number of cases where this has not been the case, such as the shipwreck of the erika and the prestige. i am glad that the commission has taken up some of the points in the report which we drew up here in parliament in the temporary committee on the environment and the environment after the prestige disaster. the main emphasis should be on the degree of preparation of the member states. what do they have ready when a problem arises? main point of discussion with the council: an independent competent authority. the commission wants each member state to have an independent competent body to take decisions when a problem arises. the council is not so enthusiastic about this. i understand that there are a few problems with the council's short definition. that is why we, as a parliament, are going to make it easier for the member states. we have explained in amendments nos 31 and 32 exactly what we expect from such an independent competent body, namely that it saves lives, protects the coast, protects the environment, ensures safety and protects the economy. i think everyone would agree that this is the task of the institution. secondly, it must be able to make its own decisions. it must also have competence or be able to call on competence quickly. thirdly, it must also be able to do a number of things: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the best interests of the community to take a decision on the matter. that is the purpose of amendments nos 31 to 34 - and i ask my colleagues to support me in that - because they are essential. i would ask the council to follow that line of reasoning, not to simply reject the definition, but to look at the content and discuss it with us. all member states should have a system that works. if not, we are in grave danger. the situation at present, even after the adoption of the monitoring directive with the part on airports, is that a number of member states still do not have a well-functioning body to deal with accidents, that they still do not have the necessary plans and the necessary means to deal with accidents. that is something we can no longer allow. seven reports are linked together, as the commission has already said; it is therefore in the union's interest to build a whole system to improve safety at sea. i therefore call on the council to follow parliament in this.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his reply. i would simply remind you that i asked this question in a rather particular context, that of the events at volkswagen. but what happened at volkswagen happens every day on the territory of the union. offshoring is commonplace today. we only talk about the most important ones, but there are always others. in my own country, belgium, opel has recently decided to lay off thousands of workers. this is the result of a very, very aggressive economic policy. you will remember, commissioner, that we voted here by a very large majority a resolution on relocations which is not intended to prevent them, because we cannot do so, but which is in any case intended to prevent public money from being used to encourage them. when i say public money, i am thinking mainly of the structural funds. i wanted to ask you if it is possible to obtain a list of companies that are relocating, with any sanctions that have been applied to them.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs lichtenberger, for her excellent work on this dossier and on other aviation matters, on which we have had the pleasure of working together, often in broad agreement with most of the groups. we have repeatedly established that we are pursuing the same objectives, namely the gradual expansion of the liberalised european aviation market, but also, and perhaps above all, ensuring that we gradually export the european acquis, the sum of all european aviation laws, to our neighbours and, in the long term, to other parts of the world. in this way, our common rules on safety, security, air traffic management, competition, social and environmental aspects can be adopted by third countries and thus become a kind of level playing field at a high level. this is important for opening up each other's markets, but also for the safety of our passengers or for maintaining social cohesion in the sector. it goes without saying that the application of the existing european rules is not equally easy for all the countries concerned; they often lack the necessary know-how, the necessary technical background; it is therefore important that the agreement does provide for the commission to provide technical, legal and management support to these countries. it is also important that we keep all the possibilities open in these agreements to take future necessary measures, for example, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, to limit the negative effects on the climate as much as possible. the ets has already been mentioned, the sesar system is another means of achieving this. we are of course fully in favour of mr lichtenberger's report and the resolution which accompanies it. we would like to clarify a few things here and there; we have tabled a few amendments and i hope that the members will support them. they are symbolic, but they are important and they are in line with similar resolutions which we have already adopted.
the commission's vice-president mr president, mr costa, it is true that this proposal is important. the fight against the terrorist threat is of course a priority for all the institutions of the european union. aviation safety requires constant adaptation. we must continue to look for ways of providing greater and more effective protection for european citizens. lessons must be learned from experience and the safety needs must be reconciled with the operational needs of the parties involved: the administration responsible for implementing the rules, airport managers, airlines and, of course, passengers. the existing regulatory framework for aviation security was defined after the attacks of 11 september 2001, and was developed in an emergency, which probably explains the excessive detail of the annex to regulation (ec) no 2320/2002. the normative and detailed nature of this annex is a handicap which prevents us from introducing new, more efficient technologies or from providing for safety systems which are more modulated according to the specific risks to be taken into account. finally, it does not allow us to fill the regulatory gaps in air cargo, in the handling of flights from third countries. so this new proposal to replace regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 with a new regulation, better because it is simpler and clearer, is obviously very desirable. the reorientation of aviation safety rules will improve the protection of citizens; it will allow the legitimate interest of stakeholders to be satisfied by a better balance between the risks to be taken into account and the scope of controls to be carried out. i would have preferred, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, without any hesitation, that this proposal had been adopted at first reading. this delay is all the more regrettable when we see, as i do today, that mr costa's draft report absolutely validates the need for this initiative and we agree, mr president costa, with most of the practical operational suggestions. mr president, i now come to the amendments tabled. more than half of the amendments are adopted by parliament at first reading. the commission's position is, of course, the same. i should like to make a few remarks on some of the new amendments tabled. first of all, amendment no 46 seems to me to be appropriate. it will allow the commission to cooperate more closely with icao for the purpose of exchanging information and mutual support with regard to audits and inspections. so, mr president, we welcome the approach set out in this amendment. amendment no 33 inserted a lapse clause for all implementing measures which should be reviewed after six months. but in a joint statement annexed to the new decision on comitology, parliament and the council nevertheless recognised that good legislation requires that the implementing powers conferred on the commission be without limitation in time. i understand the argument that a text which has entered into force in an emergency must be reviewed at a later date, but i am nonetheless concerned. systematic application of this principle may lead to legal uncertainty and the aviation industry may then be forced to change its procedures or to develop new ones with adverse consequences for the efficiency of procedures, passenger information and costs. i would therefore prefer to reject amendment no 33 as it stands. i am prepared to accept the inclusion of a commitment to revise the text. i take this opportunity to emphasize that the commission is constantly monitoring the proper functioning of the measures adopted and does not hesitate to amend them if necessary. last week, as part of the semiannual review, the commission postponed the introduction of a limit on the size of hand luggage for one year in order to review the merits of the measure and, if necessary, to ensure better preparation for the implementation of the measure by operators. amendment no 37 gives member states the option of not applying measures which they consider disproportionate. this provision, if adopted, would risk undermining the system of harmonised eu-wide basic levels of aviation safety. we risk going backwards, to a patchwork of 27 uncoordinated national regulatory systems, and we risk undoing five years of harmonization efforts. the amendment would also risk calling into question the 'one-stop-shop' system for intra-community flights. a series of amendments - nos 10, 67, 77, 79 and 81 - are intended to facilitate the conclusion of security agreements with third countries. the intention of these amendments is good, but unfortunately they are not linked to a mandate. they only make the task more difficult, contrary to their purpose. therefore, chapters 4 and 5 of the annex to the proposed regulation should be reviewed on the basis of the council's common position, in order to determine the aspects on which the commission could reach agreements. but i do not think that these amendments are necessary to achieve the objectives set. that is why the commission prefers to reject them. mr president, mr costa, you have raised, for the council in particular, the main stumbling block: the financing of aviation security. obviously this is an important debate. i am content to approach this question in a more pragmatic way. europe needs an instrument to ensure that the standards adopted in the field of aviation safety are applied in a manner that ensures a level playing field. and these fair play rules must apply both within the european union and to global competitors. but it's true: who pays the bill? i would like to take one of the amendments proposed as an example. it considers that member states which introduce more extensive and more burdensome security procedures than those required by eu legislation should compensate operators for the additional costs incurred by these stricter measures. i understand the logic behind this point of view. it is also true that the commission has a tool in this area, namely the treaty rules on state aid. so we shall be considering the appropriate use of these rules in the context of financial support measures for providers in the field of aviation safety. i fully understand what president costa said to the council. but i would like to draw parliament's attention to the inconvenience of delay in the introduction of an improved technical regulation on aviation safety. the danger is that this draft will be held hostage to community regulations, in return for financial decisions to be taken at member state level. i therefore hope that parliament will separate technical standards from the question of security financing so that we can pave the way for the rapid implementation of better regulation. that's my wish, but the decision is yours.
on behalf of the pse group president. - i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur on behalf of my group for the good work he has done and to express our support for the strategy he proposes, namely to keep to the same position as long as the council does not change its position. it is an important issue for the citizens of europe and parliament must play its part. my group believes that there are two important aspects to the negotiating process. firstly, as the rapporteur has already pointed out: everything to do with the financing. i'm going to summarize briefly. there is no problem at all with the financing of the measures decided by the famous committee of experts. it is logical that industry, passengers and the public authorities should all contribute to the cost. it is important that this be done in a transparent manner, that the consumer knows what the cost of safety is, and that what is calculated as safety costs actually goes to safety and not to something else. there is, of course, the problem of the extra costs; we think that these should be borne by the states, since we can assume that the security measures are of a high standard and are sufficient for the safety of everyone. a second aspect, which is not unimportant, mr commissioner, is democratic control. you must understand that we cannot give a kind of carte blanche to that committee of experts. not that we doubt the competence of these people, but when these measures have such an impact on the way our citizens move, then it's our job to do our job. to see if it is a good decision, if it is proportionate to the threat, if it is efficient, if people are sufficiently informed, etc. so we want to find a way to evaluate these things, to estimate their impact. we have tabled an amendment to that effect. we are prepared to discuss this, but i think it is important that parliament should also have a role in the final arrangements. the commissioner, one last point. you also announced a review of the fluid regime a few weeks ago. i would now like to ask you when we can expect this.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament and to the council. but we must of course say that this new partnership must be based on reciprocity and on respect for each other's essential interests. the americans, for example, the american diplomats, will have to learn that turkey is not a european country and cannot become a member of the european union, whatever the american interests in this matter may be. in washington in april we will be discussing our trade relations with the united states, energy and climate change, but i think it will also be an opportunity to reflect further on the common fight we must wage against international terrorism and, in particular, the advance of islamic fundamentalism. let us not forget that this struggle is based on the western values we share and that it is these western values that are being targeted by islamic fundamentalism and terrorism, and that is all too often forgotten, including in this parliament. the united states' foreign policy is very often open to criticism, but the way in which that criticism is often unilaterally and negatively formulated here in this parliament is very unconstructive. i am thinking, for example, of the unilateral work and the unilateral conclusions of the temporary committee on cia activities in europe or on the question of personal data. let's not mistake the enemy for the devil. with the united states of america we have many misunderstandings, different opinions, but they are not an enemy, but an ally.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be very brief in saying that in the negotiations between the commission and croatia, croatia cannot become a hostage to the vicissitudes of the negotiations with turkey, nor to the european union's possible inability to reform its institutions sufficiently before the country's accession. my group supports croatia and wishes it to be able to join the union as soon as the negotiations are concluded. my group, i repeat, wants these negotiations to be conducted swiftly, but that does not mean that they cannot be firm. croatia has every interest in preparing itself as well as possible for its accession as soon as possible.
in writing. a wink of nature: as an unprecedented heat wave hit northern europe in april 2007, the european parliament said yes to better coordination between member states in the fight against floods. a concrete response to the increasingly frequent and dramatic natural disasters in our territories: my belgian compatriots will remember the floods of december 2002 and how not to mention here the floods in central and eastern europe during the summers of 2002 and 2005! two tragedies which justified the activation of the european civil protection mechanism. in this context, i welcome the coordinating role played by the commission in the management of major disasters through the information and monitoring centre in brussels. a suggestion: the european centre should, for reasons of efficiency, be coordinated with the meteorological and hydrological services of the 27 member states. to avoid europe getting into too much water, and as the seeber report calls for, i believe it is urgent that building permits in flood prone areas, deforestation or agricultural crops be taken into account in risk management plans.
in writing. i have voted in favour of what i shall call the trilogue package for the sake of convenience. we want to give sick or suffering people the opportunity to use new advanced therapies as soon as possible with this legislation and this approach. i have studied the proposal for a regulation and the amendments and i come to the conclusion that we could in good conscience have adopted this legislation without interfering with the autonomy of the member states. i am therefore pleased, and so are many of our patients, that the vote has gone well.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on criminal measures to ensure the enforcement of intellectual property rights requires member states to punish any intentional infringement of intellectual property rights when these acts are carried out on a commercial scale. counterfeiting and piracy are clear crimes. so far, no problem. i'm not sure i can do that. i cannot, however, support the zingaretti report for a number of reasons. the limited list of property rights increases legal uncertainty. it is not possible to discourage innovation, creativity and investment by companies if they are found to be unwittingly violating these rights and are immediately prosecuted for this. the concept of 'commercial scale' is also not sufficiently clear. does this include the street musician? does it exclude personal use? i also have serious doubts about subsidiarity and proportionality. it is not for the eu to determine the nature and level of penalties, especially where personal freedoms are concerned. nor can criminal prosecution be privatised, as the report suggests in article 7 (investigation teams under the collective rights management). people are entitled to clear legislation, and this report has failed to do that.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i hope that the commission will take it up with the council. i said then, among other things, that no one in the european parliament should accept that homosexuals are persecuted, attacked, intimidated or anything else because of their sexual orientation. i also warned at the same time against the spirit of political correctness which is gradually eroding freedom of expression. indeed, alongside homophobia and other phobias, a kind of freedom of speech phobia is beginning to develop, an irrational fear of letting people speak their minds freely. what my group does not like in today's debate and in the resolutions that have been tabled is that one specific member state is being targeted and that on the basis of information whose accuracy is being questioned. that's not the right course of action. it would be better to be a little more cautious here to avoid the population in that member state turning away from the european union even more.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission strongly welcomes the excellent compromise reached by the european parliament and the council on the rapid border intervention teams regulation. as you know, over the last few years the european union has experienced an increasing need for providing operational assistance to the member states which, due to their geographical location and the complexity of their external borders, have to shoulder the heaviest burdens in terms of border control. in response, the european union created the frontex agency in 2004 as a measure for channelling the solidarity between member states and the community in terms of operational cooperation. moreover, a new external borders fund will be used from next year for ensuring financial solidarity, by boosting the capacity of all member states to deal with the challenges posed by their different external borders. the establishment of a mechanism for the creation and deployment of rapid border intervention teams is a further measure of solidarity. it is an important step forward in the cooperation between member states and the community, by controlling the external borders of the european union and performing checks on people at these borders. the rapid border intervention teams will become a highly trained and specialised reserve of border guards, which will be deployed at short notice, by the frontex agency, to a member state in need of such assistance. as something new and ground-breaking in this regard, the rapid teams will be enabled to carry out all necessary functions related to the checks on people at external borders, in the same way as checks are performed by the national border guards of the host member state. in this context, the commission would like to make the following oral statement on the international law of the sea and international protection obligations. each member state participating in operations coordinated by the frontex agency on the high seas remains fully bound by its individual obligation to respect the principle of non-refoulement as enshrined, in particular, in the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees of 28 july 1951 and the united nations convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment vis-à-vis all people under its jurisdiction. when an interception or rescue operation is carried out in the territorial waters of a member state, the community acquis on asylum is applicable. this includes the dublin regulation. consequently, in the absence of any other relevant criteria, the member state on whose waters the interception or rescue operation is carried out, would be responsible for examining any asylum claims. these principles remain fully valid in cases of future deployments of rapid border intervention teams following the adoption of this regulation. as the commission underlined in its communication of 30 november 2006 on reinforcing the management of the southern external maritime borders, it is not clear under what circumstances a state may be obliged to assume responsibility for the examination of an asylum claim when the interception or rescue operation takes place on the high seas or in the territorial waters of a third country. similarly, it is unclear under what circumstances the member state hosting an operation coordinated by the frontex agency could be considered as ultimately responsible for compliance with this principle. evidently, the further development of an integrated system for managing the external maritime borders should be based on a clear common understanding of the member states’ protection obligations. to this effect, the commission suggested that member states should address these issues collectively and pragmatically, either in the context of broader bilateral or regional agreements or through the development of practical guidelines in close cooperation with the international maritime organisation, the united nations high commissioner for refugees and other relevant stakeholders. in order to support this process, the commission will soon publish a study on the law of the sea addressing these and other relevant issues. the publication of the study will be followed by an expert meeting with member states to identify the practical follow-up, having regard to the limits of the community’s responsibility in this area as well as the oral statement. finally, i would like to stress once again that the commission is very pleased with the good cooperation between the three institutions involved in reaching agreement on this extremely important piece of new community legislation and would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr deprez, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for their excellent contributions to achieving success on this file.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad to say that the fact that the draft regulation known as rabit can be put to the vote in this house tomorrow with a view to an agreement at first reading is due to the fact that our three institutions have cooperated in what i would call an exemplary way. firstly, the commission, whose initial proposal was of a high quality and which has not ceased, throughout the process of discussion, to show a great capacity to round off corners and to facilitate compromise. the council, especially during the finnish presidency and now the german presidency, has repeatedly stated its determination to achieve and has spared no effort to convince all the member states. i would like to thank in particular the last presidency, mrs monika schmitt-vockenhausen. and i, on behalf of parliament, have been able to count from the outset, and i want to thank them publicly, on the strong support and confidence of a majority of the non-attached rapporteurs from the other political groups in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i want them to find here the expression of my gratitude. the substance of the problem to be dealt with, mr president, is both simple and urgent. the aim is to organise the assistance of the member states of the union to those of them who have to cope with the sudden and massive arrival of illegal immigrants wishing to cross the external borders of the union. we know that this problem is now affecting the southern countries of the union - and we are constantly reminded of this by dramatic images. but no one can exclude that in the future other frontiers, particularly in the south-east or east, may be subjected to the same sudden and recurrent pressures. the draft regulation before us confirms four main principles which i have always vigorously defended on behalf of parliament. first principle: solidarity in the field of external border control is not an option, it is an obligation. the draft regulation provides for the member states to contribute to the rapid reaction pool and to make border guards available to frontex at its request, unless they themselves are faced with an emergency situation which they have to deal with. second principle: border guards in reserve, when deployed in the territory of another member state as part of rapid reaction teams, are not substitutes or second-rank officers to the member state's border guards. of course, the members of the teams will receive their instructions from the host member state, but otherwise they are on an equal footing with the national border guards. the tasks they can perform are the same. they are entitled to wear their own uniforms, with a european badge attached. they may carry their service weapons in accordance with the national legislation of their home member state, except in the event of disagreement between the two states concerned. they can be allowed to consult national and european databases and their accreditation document, which was foreseen in the original draft, has been cleared of the vexatious elements, which in my opinion it contained. the third principle, and i say this particularly to mr catania, is that respect for fundamental rights applies in all circumstances. the draft regulation provides that: first, members of the teams, such as national border guards, must refrain from any discriminatory behaviour; two, they must act in accordance with the obligations of member states on international protection and non-refoulement; thirdly, that the members of the teams must act in full compliance with their obligations under the international law of the sea, in particular with regard to search and rescue. and that is what the commissioner has just reiterated in our presence. so, mr catania, the amendment you are proposing is not necessary. i would even say that it is insulting because it assumes that border guards, including spanish, italian or maltese border guards now, would not have as their concern when they discover boats in distress, to save people. the draft regulation also provides for the full application of the european directives on the protection of personal data. fourth principle: when there is an emergency, it is an emergency for everyone. since the aim is to deal with emergency situations, the regulation provides for very short time limits for the implementation of the measures. the director of frontex shall have a maximum of five working days to decide on the intervention. once the operational plan has been established, the effective deployment of the rapid reaction teams shall take place within five working days at the latest. in the light of this, it was therefore only natural that, in cases where intervention was justified but where the budgetary resources of frontex were not sufficient to cover the cost, the budgetary authority should undertake, in compliance with the provisions of the financial regulation, to find a budgetary solution as a matter of urgency. this is the sense of the amendment which has been added to the text of the draft regulation and which gives substance to the agreement reached in this respect between the commission, parliament and the council. that is the proposal which our assembly will have to vote on tomorrow. i have no doubt and i hope that it will be widely accepted.
mr president, 31 000 illegal refugees tried to escape to the mainland via the canary islands in 2006. six times more than the year before. similar conditions are also found in southern italy and lampedusa. the human tragedy of refugees must be addressed by addressing the desperate situation in the countries of origin, not by importing transient social tensions. our group therefore welcomes frontex and the establishment of intervention brigades in countries facing the problem of mass immigration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the control of the external borders is a matter for the member states, but the flows of refugees we have today show that these borders have become too porous. the exponential influx of illegals can therefore only be addressed by additional, but not substitute, resources to support member states. i hope that frontex can answer this question.
mr president, i voted in favour of the deprez report because the amendments to the commission's text generally contain technical improvements. the rapid intervention teams of frontex are a bitter necessity, especially in the light of the serious shortcomings of several member states in protecting the external borders. it remains to be seen how effective these shifts will be in practice. the whole concept is based on the willingness of all member states to fulfil their schengen obligations. there is now too much laxity, too much tolerance, the mass regularisation of illegal immigrants is putting the whole concept of schengen at risk. even if the frontex rapid intervention teams do a good and efficient job, all this will be a waste of time if some member states refuse to take up their political responsibility.
mr president, it goes without saying - and i know of no one in this parliament who does not agree with that - that discrimination against homosexuals on the grounds of their sexual orientation is unacceptable in our member states. but that does not mean that the free expression of deeply religious people should be put on the back foot by the suffocating atmosphere of political correctness and intellectual terrorism that is taking hold of this parliament. as my colleague philip claeys pointed out yesterday, there is also a freedom of speech phobia developing here, an irrational fear of allowing people to express their opinions freely. we must also combat this phobia by all means, because this resolution is not achieving its objective. in the past, a debate on homophobia has been held here on several occasions, today it is more about a round of poland basin. because, as in the geremek case yesterday, where no one with any knowledge of the facts spoke, so too the left-wing inquisition has jumped on the pulpit on the question of so-called homophobia in poland without any knowledge of the case or intellectual honesty. that is why i voted against this resolution.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i hope that the surprising mixing of two reports does not dilute the importance of a subject which is close to my heart and which i carry with me to the end of my arms, namely housing. because, madam president, if i remember correctly, this is the first time that this parliament has voted on a report on housing in the european union. i should like to thank our colleague mr andria in advance for the quality and efficiency of his work. today, madam president, surprisingly for some, millions of our fellow citizens live in precarious conditions linked to the difficulty or even the impossibility of accessing housing, which is not acceptable for the democratic model we so often boast of. so this is a big moment. ensuring access to decent and affordable housing for all is a goal to be pursued if we want to succeed, for example, in the lisbon strategy. the fact is that a home is an obvious prerequisite for a successful education and a job. while housing is not a competence of the union in the strict sense, it is nevertheless an essential element to be taken into account in pursuing our objective of social, economic and environmental cohesion. in this connection, i am very pleased to note that this report calls, with a view to the revision of the regulations governing cohesion policy planned for 2009, for the debate to be reopened on the extension to all member states of access to the structural funds for the renovation of social housing, as has already been the case since the last reform of these funds for the member states which joined the union after 1 may 2004. finally, i would stress the need, as a member of the european parliament, to continue to listen to the concerns of european citizens, a significant number of whom rightly or wrongly believe that the european institutions are too distant. with the andria report on housing, we are, as it were, entering millions of european households. and if we follow the proposal in the report to take the initiative in this house to draw up a european charter or declaration on housing which recalls the importance of the fundamental right to affordable and quality housing for all, i am convinced that we will be able to send a strong positive signal to public opinion in favour of bringing our fellow citizens closer together and of a europe which is concerned about their daily concerns. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the oral question is on behalf of mr piecyk, on behalf of the socialist group. i refer to the english text which says: operator shall be required to perform a major part. the word 'major part' is to be replaced by 'a substantial part'. it is a small amendment which can help us to reach a compromise between the council, the commission and parliament after the unofficial trilogue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since this oral amendment was not adopted, i would ask that we vote on amendment no 66 in the english original because the german and french versions do not take account of certain nuances. i therefore ask for a vote on the english text and for the translations to be checked at a later date.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to propose, on behalf of mr piecyk, that in the english text we replace 'shall be required to perform the major part' with 'a substantial part'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since this oral request was not accepted, i would like to ask that we vote again on amendment no 67 on the english text because of the problems in the german and french translations mentioned earlier.
president. - mr president, i should like to make an oral amendment on behalf of my group, the green group, and the european free alliance to try to improve and correct the wording of the second part of paragraph 11. the second part would be, and i'll say it in english, "in particular by means of enhanced dialogue on ukraine and belarus and joint efforts to finally resolve the frozen conflicts in moldova and the south caucasus". so "nagorno-karabakh and georgia" disappear and are replaced by "in moldova and the south caucasus".
mr president, my group does not oppose the oral amendment, but we are not in favour of amendment no 14, even if it is amended by the oral amendment.
mr president, mr cappato has tabled an oral amendment in which he asks for the guarantee of, basically, the separation of church and state. we ask that the following be added as an oral amendment: 'as it should be in any democracy'. indeed, while islam mixes politics and religion, in europe, among our countries, there are also those who do not practice the separation of church and state. (applause from the left)
mr president, i would simply ask my group to vote against it in these circumstances.
in writing. the current european legislation on mandatory packaging sizes is 30 years old and no longer meets the needs of today's consumers. the new rules which we have adopted today in the second and final reading - in full agreement with the council, a big congratulatory to the rapporteur - are in line with consumer demands for a wider variety of packaging formats. throughout europe, barriers to competition will be removed and innovation encouraged. european producers will be able to decide for themselves which packaging formats best suit their customers' wishes. as regards the request in this report to extend the scope of the unit pricing directive to certain small businesses, i would like to make the following reservation. i am absolutely in favour of good consumer information. i am not opposed to the large distribution chains, which account for the lion's share of the market, imposing on their products the obligation to price by unit of measurement. however, extending this obligation to smes or neighbourhood shops is not a good thing. i shall therefore oppose this with all my might when this parliament is about to consider the revision of the current consumer legislation.
in writing. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i think the harbour report, which was voted on today at second reading, deserves the full support of parliament. today, the green light is given to a type-approval which will apply not only to passenger cars but also to buses, coaches and lorries. the mutual recognition of approvals, and this for a very wide range of vehicles, is another important step in the completion of the internal market. the introduction of this framework directive will also have a positive effect on safety, as a number of safety measures for buses and coaches will be put into effect more quickly. the simplification brought about by this framework directive, ladies and gentlemen, is a good thing for the consumer and the producer, because it guarantees a more internal market, ensures greater safety and has a positive effect on the environment. for all these reasons, i support the rapporteur in his entirety.
i voted against the rocard report, mr president, because it is yet another proof that the european union is not prepared to face up to the realities of the arab world. whether one likes to hear it or not, the fact is that there is no interest whatsoever in political reform in the arab world, much less in the cultural or intercultural dialogue that is so much praised here. the rocard report should have been a major indictment of the deplorable state of the rule of law, freedom of expression and freedom of religion in the arab countries. but instead this parliament and this report are elevating the so-called cultural determination of human rights to a new kind of norm. the situation of religious minorities in the muslim countries leaves european mandarins with a siberian cold, as we see, by the way, also and repeatedly in the attitude of the european union towards turkey. despite the hate campaigns waged by the turkish and state-sponsored imams against christians, with all the deadly consequences that this has brought, the accession process is proceeding smoothly. it is this cowardly political apology against the aggressive effects of islam that my party will continue to fight.
in writing. in voting on the rocard report on reforms in the arab world, we had to vote on amendment 21, which calls on arab countries that have not yet done so to commit themselves more to freedom of worship or the right of individuals and communities to freely profess their convictions and faith while guaranteeing the independence and separation of institutions and political power from religious authority. an oral amendment was then proposed, which sought to extend this fundamental rule to all democracies; which i totally share. some members of the epp opposed this extension. i considered myself to be in full agreement with the original text of amendment no 21. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this amendment, and i am glad that it was adopted by 382 votes to 222 with 33 abstentions.
in writing. if we want to make the quality of life in europe truly sustainable, housing is an important lever in this. the andria report on housing policy and regional policy rightly places the subject in the context of the european social model, energy policy, employment, urban development and the internal market. all these areas have their intersections and their twists and turns. after all, poor housing and poverty go hand in hand, and poverty is still increasing. the housing market has been undergoing major changes in recent years, due to the interplay of supply and demand, but also to social and demographic changes in our society. the shortage of social housing is great. housing is a basic right. it is also a fundamental aspect of regional development, both urban and rural. the report explicitly refers to the social component of housing, the energy poverty that often accompanies it, the employment that can be generated by decent, environmentally friendly housing. it also goes into more detail on the need for an integrated approach and the support of local authorities. housing is and remains a national matter, but the preconditions can be guaranteed at european level. this is what the report calls for and why it has my full support.
in writing. today, in this house, a resolution was adopted by a large majority calling for new legislation on information and consultation of employees. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in my country the current directive has not even been transposed. the belgian government has long been in default and has recently been condemned by the european court of justice. when the commission put forward this proposal in 1999, it was quickly apparent that the matter was politically sensitive. yet, in essence, it is simple. all employees must be informed and consulted about the company event by means of appropriate representation and an appropriate institution. this is in the interests of both the employees and the company itself. the instruments used to give shape to this economic democracy and participation may of course differ according to the size of the enterprise. it goes without saying that we should not treat an sme in the same way as a multinational. the precise form of the dialogue between employers and employees is a matter for the social partners. the resolution we have voted today also places a major responsibility on the social partners. i'm very interested in that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to deplore in your presence the fact that commissioner louis michel has asked for and has been granted leave to stand for election to the belgian senate. by doing so, he entered the national political struggle, whereas his appointment as european commissioner was to position him beyond the political divisions. i therefore strongly condemn his lack of consideration for his important role as european commissioner. in addition, this negative attitude unfortunately has an effect on the way the commission operates. in addition, brice hortefeux, the new french minister for immigration, said on 21 may at 8.15 a.m., in an interview with the french journalist jean-pierre elkabach, that he would not pursue his immigration policy, i quote, "without it being in harmony with european policy" and that he would meet commissioner louis michel on the subject next week. the commission's position, and particularly that of commissioner michel, is, as we can see, ambiguous to say the least. i think the commission should allow commissioners to stand for election to the european parliament only, or for elections coinciding with the end of their term of office, in order to make such ambiguities impossible. i am putting a written question to the commission on this.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the environmental group in the european parliament has supported the work of mrs vergnaud, whom i thank for her availability. i must admit, however, that i preferred his original report, which was less than thirty paragraphs. i would ask the commissioner and our colleagues to read the explanatory statement, which has not been amended and which seems to me much clearer than the 72 paragraphs we have at present. my group reintroduced a number of amendments, confirming on the one hand the exclusion of healthcare from the services directive and clearly endorsing on the other hand the need for specific legislation, while stressing that there are already a number of regulations, notably regulation (ec) no 883/2004, on the basis of which, on the one hand, mobility and reimbursement of a number of healthcare services are carried out. i think that in this debate it is clear that the difficulty, as in other matters, is that it is in the interest not only of national governments but also of the actors in the health care systems in each country to keep control of the organisation and financing of health care in general, and on the other hand not to allow the court of justice's judgments alone to give undesirable guidance. i am thinking in particular of what is called 'promoting medical tourism in the european union'. i think, and many actors think, that this is not a desirable development. on the other hand, and here again i draw attention not only to our own amendments but also to those tabled by the gue group, i think that we must reaffirm very, very clearly the responsibility of each member state to ensure that its citizens and all residents in its territory have access to good quality health care. i do not think it is desirable to have to travel 300, 500, 2,000 km to go, for example, to get good dental care, as is the case today. i don't think that's really the optimal solution. it is in this spirit that we shall therefore reserve our final vote, in view of the votes on the various amendments.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the exclusion of health services from the scope of the services directive. i would like to remind you that this exclusion was the result of a decision by a large majority in this house and that we were fully supported in this decision by both the commission and the council. i think it was also a right decision, firstly because health services cannot be equated with traditional commercial services, secondly because a patient is something different from a consumer and thirdly because the member states have the primary responsibility for the organisation and financing of health care in their territory. i therefore expect that we will reach a resolution on wednesday which is consistent in this area. in the meantime, of course, health services are still services within the meaning of the treaty and are subject to the rights and freedoms of the treaty. and, as with the services directive at the time, we do not want to leave everything to the court. and here too we must reconcile different objectives. the optimum functioning of the internal market on the one hand, and the scope for a fully responsible health policy on the other. what we have to keep in mind is balance and legal certainty. a codification of existing case law on the rights and obligations of both mobile patients and mobile service providers is certainly necessary, but not sufficient. the creation of added value for people and the quality of care and the preservation of the margin of manoeuvre for member states to continue to take responsibility for making the choices that are theirs are and will remain a challenge. we do not yet have a common vision of what exactly needs to be addressed in european legislation and by what means, but i am sure that this report, the commissioner's survey and the earlier resolution on patient mobility are good contributions to further developing policy in this area and we look forward to initiatives on your part, commissioner.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, my first words of thanks today are of course to our rapporteur, marie anne isler béguin, and also to my fictitious colleagues, mrs lienemann and mrs gutiérrez, for the pse and ppe groups, with whom, for the last two years, as they have pointed out, we have been trying to convince the commission, and above all the member states, of the relevance of this environmental policy, which is initiated and controlled from brussels. in this respect, let us not lose sight of our pleasure today: the result of the conciliation, which you brilliantly crowned on 27 march, madam president, is rich in several lessons. in politics, it is often said that battles are often won in adversity: the european parliament's delegation for life+ will have proved that battles can also be won in unity, beyond political divisions and in the general interest of citizens, europeans. secondly, i find that the european commission has nothing to gain by limiting itself to a role of notary, i would say, where the treaties give it clear powers, such as in environmental policy. mrs isler béguin has already summed up very well all the progress made in this conciliation. i'm not going back there. i would like to emphasize what i consider to be our most symbolic joint success: i am speaking, of course, of the creation of a nature and biodiversity component, which should cover at least 50% of the budgetary revenue, of the operational budgetary resources. it was essential to increase this funding for natura 2000. first of all, i would say, because natura 2000 works. mrs gutiérrez spoke of the pride of those who would receive these funds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is not restricted to the areas of the brussels region, which i know well, and that no less than 2 333 hectares, or 14% of the regional territory, including the famous soignes forest and the woluwe valley, to name but a few, are included in these protected areas. at eu level, the figures are also telling: natura 2000 is more than 25 000 sites, a network that is present in 16 capitals and covers almost 20% of the land area of the eu-27. secondly, as mr adamou and other colleagues have pointed out in the previous debate, the european union committed itself in 2001 in gothenburg to halting the depletion of this biodiversity by 2010: three years from that deadline, we are far from being on the right track, and i am using a euphemism. the budget for life+ may seem indecent, it is indecent: 1.51% of the union's annual budget, or 1 894 billion over seven years, but i hope that convergences will be created between the european union, the member states, the regions and localities in order to ensure the sustainability of natura 2000 funding, and that we will not be told that with 308 billion euros, the combined budget of the structural and cohesion funds, the budgetary resources are insufficient to protect nature. this is a matter of priority and credibility with regard to the citizens of europe.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, regardless of their political colour, governments approved the general guidelines proposed by the commission in november 2006 and the commission has now entered into practical negotiations, in particular with south korea and the asean countries, on the basis of mandates decided by the council on a proposal from the commission. the european parliament has only one say in these matters and must be content with a procedure for giving its assent at the end of the procedure. the same applies to national parliaments. trade negotiations remain the prerogative of national and community executives, something we have been criticizing for 25 years. we want the european parliament in particular to be involved in the definition of the negotiating mandates through a codecision procedure and then a follow-up procedure can actually be implemented and, from this point of view, i do not think that the appearances, although interesting, of mr mandelson before our committee are sufficient. my second message is about standards. since the bruntland report we have been calling for the rules of international trade to be adapted to the essential requirements of a new mode of development which will be beneficial to all the peoples of our little planet. is it necessary to point out, commissioner, that the ecological footprint of our present european way of life is three times the capacity of the earth? it is therefore unsustainable if it is to be generalized, which is the simple reason why there is an urgent need for international environmental and social standards to be made binding, and not just encouraged, in these trade negotiations, which unfortunately is not the view of either the commission or a majority of this parliament, blinded by short-term interests. for these and many other reasons, and in particular the impact that these negotiations could have on the future development of european legislation, my group will not be voting in favour of this report.
mr president, mr sturdy has written a balanced report which also responds to the justified criticism of the acp partners that in the negotiations the eu is not listening to their complaints and is imposing too many unilateral things. i should like to say a few words about an aspect which is often overlooked, namely the regional aspect of the epo: strengthening south-south trade. the development objectives can only be achieved if the epa aims at encouraging good economic governance, promoting the regional integration of the acp economies and attracting and retaining more investment. timely and effective trade-related assistance is a sine qua non for strengthening the trade potential of the acp regions. in this context, i would remind the commission of president barroso's commitment to provide one billion euros in trade aid to developing countries. it is a bad sign that the council agreement on the next financial perspective does not provide for sufficient provision for the proposed eur 190 million per year for countries from the sugar protocol. the implementation of promises is, however, a matter of basic credibility, which could well be decisive for the success of the negotiations.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming the fact that this debate is taking place here today, particularly because it is, in my view, a blatant refutation of the allegations that we have heard repeatedly in recent months, namely that only a few agitators on the european left and a civil society which defies the european commission by principle or by habit would be concerned about the course and outcome of the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements. it certainly is not, we heard this morning. to put it simply, there is really only one question in these negotiations today, and that is: is the commission able to guarantee to the acp countries that these agreements, once signed, will bring them more favourable development conditions than they enjoy today? if so, i personally have no more problems with these economic partnership agreements. if it is not, as i fear, we must oppose them as they are presented to us at the moment, and as long as they are the product of an overly exclusively commercial vision of human relations, to the detriment of the general interest of the peoples of the acp countries. the improvement of the living conditions of the greatest number of our contemporaries and future generations, in the north and in the south, is a priority objective which we are entitled to demand from the commission. in this spirit, the commission must continue negotiating these agreements in a more transparent and effective manner. i refer to the very concrete and very correct remarks of my colleague mr arif. but the commission must also agree, and give our interlocutors the necessary time, as several speakers before me have just said. it is high time that this demand, made by the millions of european citizens whom we represent here, was taken much more seriously and with respect than it is today. mr commissioner, we hear this morning, and very regularly here, much and insistently about the economy, the opening up of markets and competitiveness. let us not forget that we must treat these words as they are, that is to say, concepts and, at best, instruments, which are only valuable for their possible contribution to the satisfaction of the general interest, the interest of the greatest number of people, not a number, even increasing, of privileged people who will be able to benefit, in the north or in the south, from any agreement with anyone, but a growing number of men, women and children who, together, constitute the vast majority of the excluded in our world and who expect a great deal from a relationship, if not generous, at least balanced with their european partners.
president, prime minister, you know better than anyone in europe how the european institutions work. your former position as president of the commission puts you in a good position to know why european citizens are turning their backs on the europe of today. bureaucracy, overregulation, no respect for the principle of subsidiarity, political correctness, no respect for europe's christian heritage and the obsession to admit muslim turkey to the eu have led most europeans to equate the european ideal of the founding fathers today with an intrusive superstate that no longer listens to the will of the citizens. in recent years we have had some striking examples of the deliberate deafness of official europe. in france and the netherlands, citizens have voted in a democratic referendum to say 'no' to the european superstate. nevertheless, the german presidency is continuing on the same course. for angela merkel, and i fear for you as a member of the european council, the will of the people does not count. all the opinion polls also show that the europeans want to be friends with the turks, but they do not want a non-european and islamic country to become a member of our union. and there, too, the road is still being followed. but don't kid yourself. this refusal to listen to the needs and aspirations of the europeans will turn against official europe again on the next occasion, and then we should not complain if the citizens vote "wrong" again, as it is called. finally, mr prime minister, the government of my country has embarrassed itself this past week by banning the dalai lama from visiting belgium for commercial reasons. nobody wants to confront china. first the fressen and then the moral. i hope that you will take the floor in the european council to condemn this cowardly attitude of your government, which likes to talk about human rights but which puts its own economic interests first when it comes to this matter. if europe is serious about defending human rights, it must also dare to condemn the hypocrisy of some member states.
the european parliament has been very active in the middle east, and it has been very active in the middle east. i had the honour of attending a meeting with amr moussa, secretary-general of the arab league, and the foreign minister of the palestinian authority, at the conference of presidents of our parliament last wednesday. i think that showed their genuine desire to work on a peace plan for the region, but there are still some - how shall i say - structural problems. hamas, the main palestinian ruling party, still refuses to explicitly recognize israel and still refuses to renounce and condemn terrorism and violence. it is not at all clear how peace talks can succeed in such circumstances. the violence between the various palestinian camps has also increased in recent days, with a failed bombing attempt against president mahmoud abbas. i have no doubt that israel has the right to defend itself against violence and terror, including by military means. israel should be warned against actions against palestinian mps and a fortiori against the palestinian prime minister, although there have been voices to go that way. this would cross a dangerous line and lead to an even greater escalation of violence.
madam president, let's imagine a city that is regularly plunged into darkness. imagine a city without police. let's imagine civil servants who haven't been paid for a year and a half. imagine hospitals without medicine, schools without school supplies. imagine a walled city, left to itself, with no functioning administration. and let's imagine there's money flowing through it, and weapons. let us remember that a night of blackout in new york city has led to looting and crime in the world's largest democracy... so what can we expect in palestine today? our irresponsible policy has led to the collapse of the administrations we have set up, the weakening of the powers in place, the spread of poverty, the resurgence of diseases that had disappeared - even the world bank agrees - and this despite the commendable efforts of the commission. today, we have just climbed another rung in the ladder of misery: palestinians are killing each other! but, my dear colleagues, the scenario was predictable. instead of seeking the unity of the two major palestinian factions, legitimized by uncontested elections, instead of betting from the beginning on their unity, we decided to play the game of sanctions that divided them. while president abbas was trying, at the risk of his life, to play his hand by forcing the birth of a government of national unity, based on a political platform that was inspired by the principles of the quartet and that respected previous peace commitments, we were waiting. we have not been able to enjoy the beauty and the hopes of mecca. today, javier solana, who has been on a mission to the region, rightly says: "we must support palestinian unity". but we will not support this unity by sending money and arms to either side! there is only one way, as you all know, and that is political. that is why i say to you, together with some of my colleagues, that the government of national unity must be recognised as a matter of urgency! we must establish its authority, we must help it to establish its authority and provide for the subsistence of its people. he who sows wind will reap tempest. i'm not the first to say this. but if we refuse to deal with moderate islamists again, we will only have the radicals and extremists on our hands and they will not only make their voices heard in palestine!
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after our visit to the west bank and gaza at the beginning of may, i can only conclude that we are further away than ever from a structural solution, as agreed 40 years ago. we see a lot of illegal settlements being established in the west bank. we're seeing the number of checkpoints just go up instead of down. in gaza, 87% of the people live below the poverty line. there are still 41 palestinian mps in prison and there is no talk of returning refugees. and the wall that does grow to be the largest in the world. israel can be proud of that. however, the palestinians also have the right to self-determination and a dignified existence and are prepared to make sacrifices and to make compromises. they have shown on many occasions that they want peace and prosperity for their people. but do the international community and the european union really want this? i sometimes have my doubts about that, even when i hear the commissioner say today that after talks with the minister she hears that the government of national unity is being asked to give support and that abbas is also asking for this. then why don't you recognize the government? what are you waiting for? when will you finally give direct support to the palestinian authority? i hear the presidency talking about the quartet's requirements. but we must not wait for a new meeting of the quartet. the european union could take the lead in this area. we need to talk to the entire government. finally, commissioner, you say that all the instruments are being used to force israel to pay these taxes to the palestinians. i don't see what instruments you were talking about. i would very much like to hear more about that, because i think there is no time to lose.
president, mrs reding, mr rübig, i congratulate you warmly on your perseverance and tenacity in this matter. with this regulation, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again proving that the european union is good for the people. because almost everyone has one of these devices today and will therefore be able to enjoy the positive impact of this measure. commissioner, a very small anecdote. my cleaning lady has spoken to me once in the last few years about europe, and that was about the mobile phone charges, specifically about the irresponsibly high bill she received after calling home in belgium while on holiday in spain. i think that this regulation is the right decision. in europe, calling abroad with a mobile phone is hardly an option today. it costs a lot of money and that is obviously a serious obstacle to the internal market. it's a good thing that's coming to an end. it's good for the business people and it's good for the tourists, it's good for the students and it's good for all of us. it is also very good that mobile phone users can automatically benefit from the lower rates. this too is a victory for the consumer and for europe. i am convinced, commissioner, that the mobile phone operators will be able to recover a large part of the lost revenue simply because there will be a lot more calls. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new mobile phone tariffs are very high. they are very close to the rates proposed by parliament. the price of a mobile phone call abroad will fall by an average of 60%, and that is very significant. the commission and parliament have stood firm and have defied all pressure and lobbying on the part of the consumer. if it's good, i guess it's good to say.
president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to accept today the package of amendments tabled by the rubig report on the roaming regulation, then we as european legislators have every reason to be proud. the bold proposal by commissioner reding, the work of the various parliamentary committees preparing the rubig report and the progress made under the german presidency of the council all bear witness to the vision and political determination to do effectively what we always claim to do: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the roaming regulation is a vision and a bold move. of course we believe in the workings of the market. but where the market fails, we are not afraid to intervene. price regulation is a far-reaching measure, but it is temporary and it is in its place in this one. i'm also very excited about the speed at which we've been able to work. to pass a law like this in ten months' time is unprecedented. moreover, the results are already felt before it is published and comes into force. so this summer may be a good time for the itinerant holiday maker. finally, i fully endorse the content of the decisions. the aim of putting an end to excessive consumer prices has been achieved: the maximum price is about 60% below the average price before the launch of the initiative and that can count, and the provisions on more information and transparency are an additional asset. i look forward to the reactions of the market, which fortunately still has a little room for manoeuvre and which will now be able and hopefully also willing to prove that it works. finally, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the excellent cooperation they have shown in this matter. i would also like to mention simon coveney in particular. he was the shadow rapporteur in the committee on the internal market and also played a very important role in getting this result down, but unfortunately he was not able to be here today. i also congratulate the commissioner on her proposal and i wish the council every success. ladies and gentlemen, i think that the consumer dimension of european policy has been given a star today.
mr president, i too would like to make two points on this matter. too high rates and lack of transparency. i think the agreement is good, balanced, perhaps not 100% the desired result, but an important step forward. i do regret that my amendment on greater transparency, which was accepted in the committee on the internal market and the committee on industry, was rejected in the trialogue. it meant, commissioner, that the government would develop a fare simulator which would enable consumers to compare the fares of the different operators. that is a lot of work at the moment, with a lot of ambiguity for consumers. it might have been a second star in consumer protection. but i support the agreement that has been reached. i hope that in the future, competition between operators will really bring down fares even further and i think that in this case we have proved that we as a european parliament can make a difference for ordinary people.
commissioner, it is particularly good that the commission is going to actively support the ilo strategy for decent work. decent work is more than just respect for the fundamental labour standards of the ilo, important as they are. it also means that people have the right to a living wage, the right to social protection and the right to organise. today, 1.5 billion people in the world earn less than enough to meet their basic needs. however, 90% of all countries in the world have a legal minimum wage, but often homeworkers, agricultural workers or people with precarious contracts are not covered or the law is not applied. social consultation and trade union rights are therefore crucial to guaranteeing the right to decent work for all. i am therefore particularly pleased with the joint statement by the european trade union confederation and the american unions, which together want to make decent work a point of contention. europe must put decent work at the heart of its foreign policy in order to share more equally the benefits of globalisation and to avoid social dumping in relation to wages and working conditions in more developed economies. trade agreements currently being negotiated by the european union with countries such as india or korea should support decent work and trade preferences should be withdrawn if countries systematically violate fundamental social rights. europe should also support its partners in developing countries to give decent work a prominent role in their country or regional strategy plans and in the european partnership agreements. not only governments but also multinationals have a crushing responsibility in ensuring fair wages and working conditions. multinationals based in the european union, but also their subsidiaries and subcontractors elsewhere in the world, which continue to violate fundamental rights, should be blacklisted and excluded from all possible public procurement in europe. europe will thus take the lead in international efforts to give a social dimension to globalisation.
in writing. by approving this afternoon the regulation on mobile phone charges abroad, the european parliament has adopted legislation awaited by millions of consumers: workers or tourists, who are exasperated by the exorbitant costs of making or receiving crossborder calls on gsm and who have received the support of the european commission, which has authored this legislative proposal. and although my liberal philosophy is not very well suited to interventionism in market prices, i am opposed above all to laissez-faire, to laissez-faire and to cartels in a given economic sector. this european law is a major step forward in protecting consumers, who will see their bill reduced by up to 70%. another improvement was the freedom of choice for the operator to offer the customer a choice between the regulated tariff and a flat-rate tariff which would also cover sms and mms. it is a pity that this reduction in roaming costs will not be operational for the summer season. citizens will take comfort in the clear willingness of the three european institutions to go out and reclaim their rights and to fulfil the first of their missions: to make laws that will change their daily lives for the better.
in writing. european health policy cannot be limited to regulating patient mobility or creating a single market. no two-speed policy: those who can afford it, they move to get the best care. this is inappropriate because it undermines social and territorial cohesion and solidarity. health care - like other social services of general interest - is often part of the national social protection system which guarantees citizens that their fundamental rights are respected. for these reasons, health services were excluded from the services directive by this parliament last year. we can't undo this today! the newly adopted text, which examines the impact and consequences of such exclusion, calls on the commission to develop an appropriate instrument to codify the case law on the rights and obligations of mobile patients and carers. i don't think this goes far enough. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. health is a basic right. everyone has the right to move to another country for better care. each healthcare provider and the member states concerned have a duty to treat all patients equally.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the epp-ed group has broken an earlier compromise with the pse group which protected health services by keeping them outside the scope of the services directive. fortunately, the epp group members decided in the plenary vote to respect this compromise, and to respect health care, by refusing to make health a commodity. the vote was a victory for the socialists' will to defend accessible, high-quality and affordable health services for the citizens of the union.
in writing. until now, the generalised system of preferences (gsp) has guaranteed acp countries privileged access to the eu market, with lower import tariffs at eu borders and better market access. this made it easier for developing countries to export their products to the richer european countries. this wto agreement is a formal exception to the most favoured nation principle of non-discrimination. the 2000 cotonou agreement aims to abolish this exception by the end of 2007. individually negotiated economic partnership agreements (epas) will replace them. otherwise, any wto member can report discrimination. the report before us is rightly critical. it is essential that the european commission negotiates the epa taking into account the development of the acp countries. the principle of total market liberalisation must not be allowed to play its part, because this is a real threat to them, both socially and economically. the report does not take into account the realities on the ground. whether the epo will have a positive or a negative impact remains a question. it is not surprising that the countries concerned do not want to sign these agreements before the end of 2007. if parliament does not take the time pressure off and is not prepared to allow the sap+ system to continue, i cannot support the report.
president, prime minister, the dutch electorate has voted massively against the european constitution. i can only hope that your government will continue to strive for a new treaty and not a constitution. i also hope that the voters will have the opportunity to express their views on this, not only in the netherlands, but in all the member states. but this debate is not just about the institutional question. it is about the future of europe, and therefore also about the fundamental question of the eu's borders, about whether a non-european country like turkey can join. when you took over the eu presidency in 2004 and came to the european parliament for the first time, you said that turkey would be strictly monitored to ensure that it met all the copenhagen criteria. can you, mr prime minister, three years later, hand on heart, declare that this arrangement has been respected? turkish-armenian journalist hrant dink was murdered after being convicted by a turkish court as a criminal. orhan pamuk, nobel prize winner for literature, has fled abroad because he too is threatened. for the turkish penal code, it is a crime to allegedly insult turkish identity. so there is no freedom of speech. not to mention the murder of three christian publishers and a catholic priest. i could also talk about the fact that turkey still still refuses refuses to recognize a member state of the european union and to meet its obligations in relation to the opening of its ports and airports. the current showdown between islamists on the one hand and the supporters of the secular state on the other should also be cause for concern in europe, but the european union continues to negotiate as if there were no dirt in the air. the vast majority of the population who are against accession are ignored. and whether one likes to hear it or not, that arrogance and that alienation from the world is the number one threat to the survival of the european union. (applause from the left)
president, prime minister, as a resident of the benelux countries, i have been feeling a little frustrated lately. we were used to being on the front lines of the european project together. since the negative referendum in the netherlands, however, i have felt a certain fear of the dutch politicians when it comes to europe. i found this reflected in the way you spoke about the extension of majority voting, although you know that this is one of the essential elements for maintaining the dynamism of an enlarged europe. however, i do understand the difficult position you find yourself in. you, mr president-in-office, may still be convinced that the text you approved at the igc is indeed an adequate response to the challenge we are facing. but you must take into account the opinion of your people. i therefore appreciate your efforts to find solutions and to seek a compromise, while also expressly recognising that those who approved the text as such must be taken into account. i hope this can lead to a compromise. i am very concerned, however, about what you said about the involvement of national parliaments. you're actually advocating for the red card. this doesn't seem like the way to go. in fact, you are making the national parliaments into a kind of new institution of the union, and we do not need that. you must convince your national parliament that its role is to control the ministers in relation to their role in the council. that is the role of the national parliaments, and the national parliaments that do this have no problems. another point of concern i have about what you have said, and which you might want to think about, is that if you want to include the criteria for enlargement in the treaty, as the commission does, you must take into account that you are submitting enlargement to the judicial review of the court of justice, when it is ultimately a matter of political decision-making. i think you should think about that for a while. (applause from the left)
i believe that the analyses of the nigerian elections by international observers are strikingly parallel: disappointment with an electoral process characterised by poor organisation, widespread fraud, intimidation and violence. the eu observation mission, led by our colleague max van den berg, who has done an excellent job in difficult circumstances, has concluded that these elections do not meet international standards. i was somewhat surprised by the reaction of certain member states who would have preferred to see the statement of the european observers as a little less negative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. different interests sometimes lead to different reactions - history repeats itself. the eu election observation mission was right not to be tempted to take a political stand. after all, as max has just said, it is the political class and civil society in nigeria itself that must now play their part. the supreme court's ruling on the vice president's participation in the elections shows that this need not be a utopia. irregularities must now be reported to the electoral tribunals and the court. our role is more structural. we must, for example, make it clear through dialogue, as the commissioner rightly said, that there must be an independent electoral commission capable of organising genuinely independent elections and that the newly elected nigerian parliament can play an important role in this. in summary, after the hopeful developments in countries like mali, benin and liberia, it is a pity that a regional superpower like nigeria has missed its chance.
it is obvious that the european union will have to make a significant contribution to support the peace process in kashmir. it is important that there is and remains a dialogue between all parties involved. let me touch on just one of the many aspects, namely the problem of terrorism. it is a fact that many terrorist acts in the region are carried out by groups operating from pakistan or supported from pakistan. lashkar e-tayyiba and hizb ul-mujahedin are two examples of this. president musharraf has already made several commitments to tackle the problem of terrorism, but i fear he has a very long way to go. the same can be said of the extreme islamism that is being propagated on a large scale through the notorious madrassas. if pakistan fails to control this problem, the peace process will have no chance in the long term. the european union must therefore no longer be satisfied with promises from pakistan, but must also expect concrete action.
author. mr president, everyone knows my commitment to the syrian issue. i have always felt that the isolation of this country would not bring any good to the international level and would not advance peace in the region. so i've been attached to the association agreement file, frozen since the assassination of rafic hariri. but this commitment and friendship towards syria also implies that we speak out when fundamental rights are being violated! that is why i condemn and condemn the political repression which is now being applied to all opposition parties, whatever their tendency. most of the prisoners we are asking for today are people we have met, almost friends. none of them, when they spoke to us, considered any other way than the legal, peaceful way to democratize the country. they all love him very much. when a country attacks those who love it most, when it kills freedom of speech, it puts itself in danger. i wouldn't want to put syria in danger. today we are calling for the release of michel kilo, mahmoud issa, suleiman achmar, faek el mir, aref dalila, kamal al-labwani and anwar bunni. they must be released. i therefore hope that the council and the commission will convey this message to the syrian government and that it will pay the utmost attention to it. it would also be good if syria took a clear position in favour of the international criminal court chapter 6 to try hariri's murderers. the international community would appreciate that. it would help to break the political impasse in which lebanon is struggling. this impasse is fuelling the resurgence of bloody conflicts and heralding a period of violence and instability. everyone knows that such a syrian position, far from being an interference in lebanese affairs, would on the contrary help to unblock the situation and, above all, put an end to the rumours that syria could, in secret, block the constitution of this criminal court.
mr president, i hope you will allow me to find the necessary number of members present to oppose the absolutely surreal oral amendment on thursday afternoon! i am not sure that there are even 40 people who are asking for this oral amendment! i cannot oppose the oral amendment, but i can certainly oppose the procedure. i'd like you to take it back.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a regulation on the conclusion of the protocol establishing, for the period from 1 january to 31 december 1997, the fishing rights and financial compensation provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the government of the republic of guinea-bissau on fishing off the coast of guinea-bissau (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). anyone born in israel and the occupied territories after june 1967, that is, anyone aged 40 or under, has known nothing but uncertainty and anxiety about the future of their country, their loved ones and themselves. after 40 years, i've had enough. it is urgent to work towards peace, a lasting peace, based on two countries recognizing each other's right to exist and which should be left alone by their neighbours. the complexity, the difficulty and the complication of this has been fully explained by all the previous speakers. but there is one ingredient, ladies and gentlemen, without which it will never succeed, and that is political will and political courage. without the kind of political will and political courage that at one time in south africa, for example, was present in both camps to put an end to apartheid, a cruel regime, without that kind of political courage and without that kind of political will it will not succeed. and the sad thing is that it is not possible for anyone to have political will and political courage in place of the protagonists themselves. it is they who will have to show the political will and courage. tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, a human chain will be formed around the berlaymont building, made up of jews and palestinians, who will all say together: "after 40 years, it's been enough. after 40 years, we must work for peace". but unfortunately, the israeli-palestinian conflict is not the only source of unrest in the region. the violence in lebanon has increased, and some see it as a result of the syrian government's determination to prevent an international hariri tribunal at all costs. i would like to congratulate the un security council on behalf of my group for having the courage to say that such a tribunal will be established. you know, ladies and gentlemen, that this will be a mixed tribunal with international judges and lebanese judges, with a mixed prosecutor's office and that it will operate according to the principles of lebanese law. but in lebanon too, political courage will be needed in all camps to finally give the lebanese what they are entitled to: peace and security.
mr president, during the 2006 elections, i asked a palestinian: 'do you think these elections will bring peace?' he said, "no, not peace, democracy. and we will show the world that even in occupied territories we are capable of holding free elections". our response was pitiful. our disregard for the aspirations of a people, including their right to make mistakes, has introduced a little more chaos into a region that is now on fire. the creation of a national unity government and the mecca accords did not sufficiently change the european union's hard line or its sanctions. and despite your efforts, mrs ferrero-waldner - which i appreciate - and despite what you have said to us, which is encouraging, mr solana, i believe that we have not yet radically changed our policy towards the middle east and that we have not sufficiently understood that we are undermining the very idea of democracy with our response to these elections. and this is an attitude that has been going on for forty years. i believe that we are partly responsible for allowing a situation of absolute non-right to settle in palestine for 40 years, namely extrajudicial executions, the plundering of land, the kidnapping today of lawfully elected mps and ministers, the existence of a wall declared illegal by the hague court and the geneva conventions violated, francis wurtz spoke of it: more than four hundred children still imprisoned in israeli prisons, more than four hundred palestinian children. un resolutions ignored the closure of territories, the prohibition of movement. what else? of course, mr tannock, we condemn the violence, we condemn the rocket fire, we condemn the kidnapping of private shalit, but there is an excess today. look at the numbers. they are, unfortunately, dramatically unfavourable to the palestinian people and, i repeat, there is no equidistance. international law is not equidistance. there is no justification for our silence today and i would like to salute here these new righteous ones, these jews who in israel and elsewhere are speaking out and saying, "this must stop". they say this in the face of ridicule, sarcasm and sometimes threats from their fellow citizens. i feel solidarity with all of them, as i feel solidarity with our palestinian colleagues who, in defiance of parliamentary immunity, are imprisoned. i should like to tell you that in belgium all the leaders of the political parties have agreed to meet tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the berlaymont to form a peace chain and to ask the european union to assume its responsibilities, not just humanitarian responsibilities, but real political responsibilities which are a credit to the european union.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. in view of the recent developments in the palestinian territories, we believe it is more important that we do have a short debate tomorrow morning on the situation, the new developments, the challenges that are arising and then possibly in july, a resolution in which we can take account of all the new developments, rather than the other way around. so my group fully supports the proposal that we have a debate tomorrow, as you yourself have proposed, mr president, and that we then take a moment to table a more substantiated and above all a more updated resolution by the next partsession.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must all respect the fact that mr schnellhardt has succeeded in getting this regulation on spirits passed. we need a new regulation because the existing one is technologically outdated and because it needs clarification in the wto rules and because of the recent enlargement. the rapporteur, mr schnellhardt, has reached a broad consensus in this house and with the council. it gives us better consumer protection, it allows our european products to be clearly positioned on the world market within the wto framework and it promotes the functioning of the internal market. it is also important that it recognizes the specific nature of each product, including through its labelling and the system of geographical indications. however, there are still doubts about the vodka provisions among some people, including those in our group. but here too the rapporteur has done a fine job by demanding that if vodka is produced from raw materials other than cereals or potatoes, the label must also indicate the raw material in addition to the sales description, we are using techniques which have been used with great success in the past. on the subject of beer and chocolate, we had a similar discussion years ago about traditions, about values, about the interests of suppliers of raw materials and of producers large and small; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore dare to call on all those who have doubts to look again at the compromise and support it wherever possible.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to begin by saying that we acknowledge, understand and appreciate the seriousness of this disease. not only is it a serious disease, but it also affects young men and women in europe and all over the world in the most productive period of their lives; people who have usually already formed their own families, have young children, have all their life ahead of them and then have to go through these difficulties. also, we appreciate the importance not only of the european parliament’s resolution but also of the code of best practice, which was drafted by the platform. as i have already said, the commission also participated in the first european conference on multiple sclerosis last month, and that conference was organised in the context of our public health programme. it was a project funded by the programme ‘multiple sclerosis – the information dividend’ and led by the european multiple sclerosis platform. of course, many of the aspects relating to this disease have to be dealt with by the member states, so it is a gradual process that will take some time, but the commission is there to help, support and encourage. at the conference, many essential points were presented concerning the follow-up to parliament’s resolution of 2003, especially regarding the discriminatory treatment afforded to people with multiple sclerosis. the commission is taking action in the main fields covered by the proposal regarding a code of good practice on the right of people affected by multiple sclerosis to quality of life. some actions target multiple sclerosis directly; others are of a more general or, let us say, horizontal or generic nature but, again, they are of benefit to the issue of multiple sclerosis as well, for example, the issue of equal rights and access to treatment and therapies for multiple sclerosis. the commission, within its more general framework of safe, high-quality and efficient health services, is reinforcing cooperation between member states. it is helping create reference networks for diseases, exchange of best practice and centres of reference, and the objective of these will be to ensure equal rights to patients and equal level of treatment all over the european union. so, once these networks are established, they can cover multiple sclerosis as well, especially with centres of reference and exchange of best practices. on research, on the other hand, we have a more directly targeted agenda and initiatives. the seventh framework programme includes collaborative activities on research into brain-related diseases, human development and ageing, with particular emphasis on how to turn basic discoveries into clinical applications. one first call proposal for this topic was neuro-glia interaction in health and disease, which is of direct interest to the multiple sclerosis research community. also, under the preceding programmes (the fifth and the sixth), the commission funded 18 projects on multiple sclerosis, the largest of which, in the sixth programme, totalled eur 11.4 million and related to neuro-protective strategies for multiple sclerosis. on the issue of employment and discrimination, which is important for us, directive 2000/78/ec already prohibits discrimination based on disability in employment, occupation and vocational training, and requires employers to put in place reasonable accommodation tailored to the individual case to enable a person with a disability to work or undertake training. the commission is committed to encouraging actions and promoting strategies for the adaptation, and reintegration into working life, of affected persons. on the issue of participation and empowerment, the project i mentioned earlier, ‘mutliple sclerosis – the information dividend’, will facilitate consensus on agreed european quality standards on information about multiple sclerosis, which has to be accessible, delivered in a timely manner by appropriately skilled and experienced professionals and provided in an equitable and efficient way. finally, i would like to inform parliament that the commission intends to discuss with member states a proposal for a large european consensus conference on neuro-degenerative diseases, including multiple sclerosis, to be held in 2009 or 2010, and the commission will be able (on the basis of conclusions endorsed both by public and private stakeholders at that conference) to propose a communication or other relevant policy initiative, including specific actions in all the fields of disease prevention, research and management of this group of diseases. we will, of course, keep parliament informed of all the next steps.
it is indeed three and a half years since parliament called in a resolution for important measures to be taken by both the council and the commission to support european citizens with ms. as the commissioner said, a lot has happened. i was also able to express our support on behalf of parliament at that conference on 29 may, but i have three specific questions to put to the commission. the code of good practice must be disseminated and adopted in all member states as soon as possible. is the commission prepared to make a comparable presentation of information on ms available to all patients on the eu health portal? my second question concerns the ms idea project which was recently launched under the health programme and is also funded by the commission. this project should lead to a ms register that can be used by anyone. will the commission also provide financial support for this? finally, i would like to ask whether the commission will take further initiatives towards framework legislation which gives priority to the preservation of jobs for ms patients?
in writing. the battle over vodka was fought this afternoon in the house during the vote on the revision of the legislation on spirits, a vote in which the european parliament was fair but not firm in its defence of the culinary and wine heritage. equity, since the european parliament has rightly considered that vodka, an alcoholic beverage traditionally produced in poland, sweden, finland and the baltic states, deserves legal protection in the same way as other spirits with a protected designation of origin such as juniper, whisky or cognac. the second is confusion, since producers who distil vodka other than from potatoes or cereals (there are apparently manufacturers in italy, the united kingdom and even belgium!) will be able to keep the name 'vodka' on their spirits products by simply adding a clarification on the label! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's wine sector is not affected by the crisis. europe must, however, encourage vocations in these traditional sectors and not make local producers lose their last hopes!
it is perhaps no coincidence that a lot of dutch is spoken in a debate on development cooperation, and i am very pleased about that. the g8's achievements suggest that the road to achieving the millennium development goals is beginning to resemble the procession of echternach. yes, there was a little talk about africa in heiligendamm. if only to avoid bono and bob geldof fighting each other in armor. the same promises made in 2005 were repeated once again. but no new commitments and especially no timetable. i share glenys kinnock's concern that we won't get there in 2015 at this rate. the report by mr kinnock has been a very balanced document, which has also taken account of the concerns of our group. let me just briefly outline them. one: the 0.7% must not be a fetish. the quality and efficiency of the aid provided is at least as important as the quantity. the so-called development spending of certain governments raises many questions and the coordination is often lacking. two , you 're not . more direct budget support is inevitable if we are to meet the mdgs, but conditions must also be attached to it. firstly, on good governance and it is essential that parliamentary control be strengthened. three , please . we are in favour of further debt relief. not linear, but conditioned. the funds released could be put into a fund that would be used as a priority for education and health care. finally, mr president, i would like to say this. the debate on whether to give priority to the pursuit of the mdgs or to aid for trade is a false dilemma, one we do not want to join. as far as we're concerned, it's not an either/or, it's an and/or.
i am glad to see that the commissioner for development cooperation and humanitarian affairs is back with us. we know he's got a busy schedule. his leave as a commissioner to take an active part in the parliamentary elections in my country may have expired - and the leave of a european commissioner has certainly not been a win-win for his party, for which i congratulate him - but nevertheless we note with admiration and also with some surprise that he remains active on two fronts, even after his leave. here in the hemisphere as commissioner for development cooperation, but also in brussels where the feverish work is being done to form a new belgian government and where the commissioner is today calling on the french-speaking green party of my country to join the government. it is not a sinecure to combine the job of european commissioner and belgian locomotive informant. the question whether this mixing of genres does not lead to possible bias and does not thereby compromise the commission's neutrality is therefore probably only a detail in this context. apart from this comment, it is better to ask ourselves - and i am speaking now of the kinnock report - how scientifically we are actually working on the millennium goals. this provocative question was launched by amir attaran, a prominent development cooperation scholar at the university of ottawa in canada. the scientific validity of these objectives and, in particular, the way in which their attainment is measured, are indeed the subject of serious questions. he took the example of the malaria target and said that even institutions such as the world health organisation admitted that they were not sure of the data provided. by accepting uncertain figures as truth, the un is building its set of millennium goals on quicksand, attaran said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore time for a thorough debate on this.
i would like to congratulate mr kinnock on a critical report, which i believe is very pertinent. i would like to thank the commissioner for his concerns about the g8 summit in heiligendamm. i can tell you, commissioner, that i largely share your scepticism about the result. in 2005, there was general agreement that the mdgs could be achieved with sufficient commitment and resources. barely two years later, that idea has apparently cooled off, and the g8 leaders are only repeating the promises of 2005. as has been said by colleagues before, there is no much needed timetable for the implementation of the commitments. there is no concrete financing plan to hold countries accountable for their commitments and any shortcomings, and it is already clear that the g8 countries are failing to achieve the projected accelerations needed to double aid by 2010. in the fight against hiv/aids alone, there is a huge lack of funds. in 2007, the deficit will be no less than 9 billion. the promises made at the gleneagles summit to ensure universal access to hiv prevention, treatment and care by 2010 are far from being fulfilled. only one in six aids patients is on medication. every 12 seconds, someone dies of aids, and 70% of new hiv infections are in sub-saharan africa. this is simply unacceptable. the commissioner said that the g8 had to be given a commitment to the fight against aids, tuberculosis and malaria. one more point. achieving the mdgs is not just a matter of money, but also of rights. without access to sexual and reproductive health for all, for example, it is impossible to fight poverty. i hope, commissioner, that europe will continue to play its leading role in this area.
president, mr cornillet has summed up the work of the joint parliamentary assembly in 2006 very well, a ppv that is growing in credibility and strength, that no longer avoids difficult debates such as migration and that also dares to make choices, although the search for consensus is still the rule. a typical example of this - and a highlight for me too - was the debate and resolution on the state of play of the negotiations on the epas. a resolution which served as the basis, the starting point, for the report by our colleague mr sturdy which we adopted here in parliament. the report was therefore supported by our colleagues in the acp parliaments. two less positive findings. one: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is directly contrary to the spirit of solidarity and cohesion within the ppv. the question is whether we are not ready for a revision of the rules of procedure in order to remove blocking minorities on both sides. two , you 're not . the acp countries have been unable to agree to the terms of the agreement, and the acp countries have not been able to agree to the terms of the agreement. that too is unacceptable, as is the systematic influence that ambassadors try to exert. it is hopeful that the acp countries have decided to undertake a study to evaluate the work of the secretariat, but of course something will have to come out. in summary and conclusion: 2006 was a good year for our ppv. let us hope that in 2007 we can take another step forward towards strengthening the parliamentary and political character of the joint parliamentary assembly.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. the activities and recommendations of this institution in this field - and this is the main subject of this report - call for some critical remarks. study missions to malta, spain and senegal may have been useful, but unfortunately they have not brought much new insight this time. what does a report on the impact of skilled worker migration on national development teach us? the migration of skilled workers leads to a brain drain in the countries of origin and is in any case harmful to the country concerned. because that, of course, is the great paradox: the advocates of more migration to europe to fill the so-called bottleneck jobs all too often forget that this migration impoverishes the countries of origin and threatens to leave the weakest behind. this too must be said out loud. but ultimately, the joint assembly's vision and response to migration is, of course, predictable. as a link in the european institutions, the joint assembly simply translates the official european policy on migration. this is anything but a vigorous and coherent immigration policy, in which clear signals are sent to the countries of origin in their own interests and conditions are imposed. in the field of human rights, democracy and good governance, too, this forum is a faithful reflection of official eu policy and completely fails to send a strong signal. a signal to the countries concerned that a refusal to apply human rights and democratic principles must be met by a reduction or even a suspension of all forms of development aid.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to know whether the commission already has annual statistics on the number of citizens in each member state who wish to use health care in another member state and, if so, for what major reasons. and secondly, in the absence of such statistics, does the commission have any information on the number of complaints lodged by citizens of a member state who have been refused permission to seek medical treatment in another member state?
in writing. directive 98/49/eec guarantees the rights to supplementary pensions of employees and selfemployed persons moving within the eu, but does not provide any guarantees as regards the transferability of supplementary pensions and the flexibility of the acquisition conditions. the commission's proposal for a new directive addresses this. it lays down time limits and proposes three minimum rules on the portability of rights: whether they remain in the company (dormant rights), whether they are taken away within a certain period, or whether they are paid out in cash (up to a certain amount, threshold). the new directive should apply to all supplementary pensions based on an employment relationship. i am particularly sorry that mrs oomen-ruijten's report excludes the proposal for the portability of pension rights from the directive. now it is only about the dormant rights. i believe that the new directive should do everything possible to support workers who invest in additional pension rights. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i can only support the report if the directive retains the broad scope proposed by the commission. otherwise, i'm against it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the excellent report by mrs kratsa, whom i thank for her work, contains two important findings. first, aid to palestine since 2003 has been well managed and free of fraud. this is a crucial element that will silence the persistent and baseless rumor of corruption in the leadership team. secondly, the temporary aid mechanism set up after the 2006 sanctions against the hamas government has unfortunately not succeeded, despite the money invested, in preventing a humanitarian disaster with increased infant mortality, the emergence of new diseases and extreme poverty in the occupied territories. however, since the emergency government was established after the dissolution of the national unity government, aid seems to have miraculously been restored and even the taxes withheld by the israelis could be returned to the new government. i'm glad you did. but as the country, engulfed in civil war, is torn in two, this dramatic reversal of position calls for a new kind of reflection. the european union has been responsible for its policy in the middle east since january 2006. this policy was aimed at isolating hamas, at depriving it of its electoral victory. it ignored the advances of the political platform, on which the government of national unity had been built; it refused to condemn israel for the abduction and imprisonment of 45 palestinian political agents. today, extremists have taken over the square and a lawless zone has been established in the region: all faith in justice and democracy has died among the palestinians and the image of the european union is tarnished for a long time. no, of course, we do not support the actions of hamas today. we condemn them. but when chaos comes, when civil war breaks out, it's a time of blood and carnage, and that chaos, i say, we helped to create. the european parliament has been sounding the alarm for months that ngos are calling for help. even the un is not silent anymore, read the report do santos. we are accountable to the international community for this disaster and if the united states had the courage of a baker-hamilton commission to judge its policy in iraq, i am today calling for the creation of a parliamentary committee to assess our european policy in the middle east and its consequences today.
mr president, i apologize for interrupting the debate on the basis of rule 145 of our rules of procedure, but i would like to point out that a delegation of about 40 belgian members of the parliament of the walloon region are in the gallery accompanying young people visiting the european institutions, here today in strasbourg and tomorrow in brussels. the group is led by the president of the walloon parliament, mr josé happart, who was a member of the european parliament from 1984 to 1999. i am speaking on behalf of all my fellow members from the four groups represented in this parliament by the walloon region. i thank you and i ask you again to excuse me for interrupting the debate. (applause) i would like to thank
i voted against the batzeli report because i think that once again parliament is turning a blind eye to reality, is also basing itself on erroneous explanations of the causes of juvenile delinquency and is also basically proposing wrong solutions. in particular, this parliament remains very blind to the disproportionate high crime rate among young migrants and more particularly among muslim youth, a phenomenon which is nevertheless very clear and manifest in all european member states. the explanations given are based on various socioeconomic factors, but the explanations are also clearly influenced by cultural factors. it is worth reading the findings of the dutch expert marion van san on this subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it should be obvious to everyone that gentle healers make stinky wounds.
mr president, i think that the klich report is just another one in which parliament is playing down the democratically expressed majority will of the french and dutch in their respective referendums and is continuing to implement parts of the european constitution in a very cunning way. it is unacceptable and undemocratic in my view that there is an open call for the passage clause to be implemented, and i quote: "simultaneous with the progress of the constitutional process". i also find it unacceptable that there is a push for the introduction of qualified majorities in the area of migration and integration. i think that the individual member states and peoples have the right to veto and to remain in control of their own labour markets. this may all be very european, but it is by no means democratic.
i am not exaggerating, mr president, when i say that by adopting the roure report this parliament is fundamentally undermining freedom of expression, as enshrined in various international conventions. in this respect the roure report goes far beyond all the previous reports on ideological unilateral racism, of which this parliament seems to have a patent. in fact, by unconditionally supporting the dangerous framework decision, parliament is supporting the criminalization of opinions and beliefs in a way that is typical of totalitarian regimes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. any deviation from the prevailing political discourse on immigration, national identity and islamization is thus crushed in the bud. the spirit of tolerance of voltaire, so beautifully expressed in the phrase 'i disagree with what you say, but i will defend to the death your right to express your opinion', is being violated by official europe. this europe is much more dangerous than the imaginary monster it claims to be fighting. this europe is a danger to democracy.
i am sure that we have had our fair share of reports in this parliament, but i have the impression that the pirker report is actually the best we have had on refugee policy. what do we read in the report, literally? we read there that a forward-looking common asylum policy is based, and i quote, 'on the obligation to admit asylum seekers and on the principle that return cannot be an option'. this is not only pure legal and international nonsense, but also a completely wrong political signal. i believe that a truly forward-looking asylum policy must first of all be based on the reception of genuine asylum seekers in the region and on the continent of the asylum seeker himself, that this reception can only take place in strictly controlled centres and that only those who are recognised as genuine refugees after a rigorous investigation can possibly be temporarily received in a country of the european union. the list of safe countries is of course crucial in such a policy. i regret that the pirker report is going in the wrong direction in this respect, as we are unfortunately accustomed to in this european construction.
author. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have spoken in this house many times about the situation in burma and the words repression, military junta in power, human rights violated were already all over my speech. the resolution we are voting on today is a call to burma to stop certain actions. i share the view of my colleagues that the main cause of the situation is the house arrest imposed since 30 may 2003 on aung san suu kyi, the burmese opposition leader who turned 62 on tuesday and who has spent 11 of the last 17 years in house arrest. she has only been allowed to leave her home once, for health reasons involving urgent care, and has little contact with the outside world. aung san suu kyi is the emblem of burma's opposition to the military dictatorship; she actually won the nobel prize in 1991. it is absolutely unacceptable that she should be placed under house arrest. we therefore call for his immediate and unconditional release. burma must absolutely stop persecuting and imprisoning pro-democracy activists and must release those already in prison. i am thinking in particular of u win tin, a journalist who is now 77 years old and has been imprisoned for almost 20 years for writing a letter to the united nations denouncing the poor conditions of detention of political prisoners. as vice-chairman of the asean delegation in this parliament, i see the growing role that asean can play in the region. may it have a positive influence on the burmese government in the near future.
i am sorry, mr president, madam chancellor, that i will not be able to join the cheers in this house for the agreement reached at the european summit. i therefore do not expect a kiss from mr schulz or mr cohn-bendit. but, hey, i can live with that. what was predicted has come true: the so-called reform treaty became nothing more and nothing less than a camouflaged version of the european constitution, in other words, we are getting old wine into new bags. the reform treaty does not provide for more transparency. the text, by the way, is becoming more illegible than ever. nothing fundamental is being done about the democratic deficit. there is no talk of referenda in the member states, the role of the national parliaments will be untenable in practice, given the high threshold that will be set, there will be no definition of the borders of the european union. even the dutch proposal to incorporate the copenhagen criteria in the text was rejected. the typical belgian compromise, i might add, on the decisionmaking procedure does not take account of the fact that the smaller member states will lose influence. finally, european law clearly takes precedence over national law. i tell you, madam chancellor, the triumphalism will be short-lived. the referenda in france and the netherlands are not taken into account. if that is the result of a two-year period of reflection, i must say that it is particularly sad. the triumphalism will therefore be short-lived if there are no new referendums. in other member states too, public distrust will only grow, because the democratic support for the european union has become very small. there is a huge gap between official europe and the man in the street - and this is also reflected in the possible accession of turkey to the european union - and i am sorry to note, madam chancellor, that you have not taken any initiative to reduce the gap between citizens and public opinion in any way. either way, something will have to be done urgently. it is high time that the european union finally began to take account of public opinion in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall speak in italian as an exception to criticise the encryption and obscuring of certain programmes broadcast by rai abroad: it is football matches, formula 1 grands prix, but also films, tv series and cartoons. i am thinking of all those who had to leave their country many years ago and their children and who want to preserve a link with italian culture. seeing that other european television stations broadcast in clear makes it even more incomprehensible: it is an injustice and, as the spokesman of the italian community abroad in this chamber, i fully support the petition www.petizionerai.org, and i wish it great success.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working for more than ten years to open up the european market for postal services, as the commissioner said, and today we are deciding on the final stage, on what is to be done with the reserved part of the 50 grammes. if this part of the old monopoly is also removed, we shall have in a few years' time a postal market which has every chance of becoming more dynamic, which will be fully open and which will be able to operate in a competitive and transparent manner. the commission proposal itself did not seem to offer sufficient guarantees for a cautious liberalisation, but thanks to the negotiating skills of rapporteur markus ferber and the good cooperation of other colleagues, a broad political agreement has been reached in the committee on transport, which gives postal operators in the first place extra time to prepare properly. as not all member states were equally advanced on the post-liberalisation track, this is a wise move. and, mr president, in other areas too, the ferber report is a giant step forward. for example, postal workers do not necessarily have to fear negative social consequences, although we must of course remain vigilant in this area. equally crucial is our commitment to guaranteeing universal service to users. of course, the mail still needs to be delivered daily and users need to be able to send mail from their local area. of course, the national plan that the member states have to submit to the commission in connection with the financing of their universal service is a key element. colleagues, after the vote tomorrow, we expect a balanced text. it is then up to the council, and certainly also to the member states, to deal wisely with our voting result.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the postal directive is one of the most important dossiers. it affects not only over a million workers but almost all citizens. that is why we have not had an easy time in the committee on transport and tourism. i would like to thank the rapporteur because with the amendments and the compromises we have taken important steps forward and have considerably improved the commission's proposal. what was important to me was this: first, service should be the focus. secondly, what will be the role of the member states in the future? this should be clearly defined. service should be the focus this does not mean for me that tomorrow will mean cheaper wages, worse service and possibly even higher prices! unlike some of my colleagues who are a little more pessimistic, i believe that the current draft has given the member states an important role. they can also fulfil this role, because they can receive the service in terms of distribution and collection. the design takes account of citizens' expectations of the direct service. social dumping can be avoided if the member states so wish. we have also received petitions in our country on the subject of the postman, with the tenor 'keep our postman in his role'. we have not only taken this important task into account in our draft, but we have also made it clear that the member states can retain this profession. there are different models of financing. i am of the opinion - but this is not feasible at the moment - that perhaps some part of the reserved area would have offered a secure financing opportunity. but we are in the first reading, and perhaps the second reading will bring some changes. monopolies must be broken, but not at any price. i have already explained our conditions for this prize: first, service, second, preservation of the profession and third, guarantee of financing. and lastly, for me, the elimination of monopolies means not creating new monopolies. overall, parliament would do well to discuss the whole principle of liberalisation in greater depth again, particularly with regard to services for the public.
i support the compromise reached by the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. i think that an open european market for postal companies is the only way to compete with electronics. they have to modernize, they have to adapt to new circumstances, and if you have the cushion of a monopoly, you're not going to look for new customers. then you'll continue the way you've always worked. we also have a clear timetable: it's 2011. everybody knows what we're up against. we emphasize the importance of public service, not just for the citizens, by the way. this public service is also of particular importance to small businesses. and, a tricky one, how do we compensate for any loss of that public service? the member states have a major role to play in this, as mathieu grosch has already said, but i would still like to say that this compensation should not be used to enable postal companies which have always done poorly to continue to do so. we need to make the postal sector more efficient and i think that will be one of the important consequences of the proposal we are voting on tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to make two points. the first concerns the question of practical experiences that go beyond speeches. the question is, first, whether the widespread competition of postal operators leads to a relative fall in prices and, if so, who benefits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the services provided is not compromised. we as members of parliament have been informed by trade union organizations and by the postal operators themselves that the experience of germany and sweden does not provide positive answers to these questions. in germany we have recorded a net loss of 29 000 jobs at deutsche post, of which 15 000 have not been compensated by job creation by new operators, and we are also seeing a rise in precarious employment. in sweden, price reductions have benefited only large enterprises, at the expense of individual consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. so, contrary to what mr simpson has said, it is not for theoretical reasons that we are advocating the retention of the reserved area; it is for the sake of the environment that we are advocating it. it is not because we decided in 1997 that the mass was necessarily said. i think we have to look at the facts, and the facts show that in many countries that have anticipated competition, the results are not what they should be. this should make us think. my second point concerns the responsibility of the member states. as mr grosch has said, the proposal before us leaves a great deal of autonomy to the member states in terms of both working conditions and the provision of services. that said, i do not think it is our responsibility as elected members of the european parliament to draw up a european law and leave it to the member states to decide whether to do so or not. that is why our amendments introduce, in the body of the directive, in its articles, requirements for compliance with working conditions and wages and for the provision of universal service. and that, in my view, is the big difference between the green amendments and the compromise amendments which the epp-ed and alde groups and a section of the socialists support.
the reform of the postal market is a very sensitive subject, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, because the impact of the opening up of the market will of course vary from country to country, depending on geography, the degree of urbanisation or the amount of mail people usually send. it's also, as brian simpson said, a network of people that everyone is confronted with. the compromise which will be put to the vote tomorrow is one which i welcome with mixed feelings. on the one hand, it is certainly true that it is far removed from the original commission proposal and the rapporteur's position on crucial points. thank you for your flexibility, mr. ferber. the definition of universal service remains unchanged. two years of extra time have been taken. the member states will have to indicate before that date what financing model they envisage, and in the social field we have obtained that the licensing system will allow all operators to be subject to the same wage and working conditions. that is essential. on the other hand, there are still many unanswered questions. is sustainable financing of universal service possible in a fully liberalised market? and this in all circumstances? unless, of course, you assume that the taxpayer is footing the bill. we have not yet received sufficient guarantees in this respect. i think it would have been better if, instead of focusing on a date and deciding to move towards liberalisation, we had first checked country by country whether the opening of the market is the best way to modernise the system further and to have a good level of service. the compromise is a step forward, but it is not enough. there's still work to be done. the ball is too much in the member states' court and therefore i will certainly support some of the amendments which did not make it through the committee but were tabled again - including by the greens/efa group.
mr president, against the backdrop of the majority which seems to be emerging in this house, i would like to make the voice of the most modest of our fellow citizens heard this morning, the voice of those for whom public services are an important asset, because they have no assets at their disposal. i would like to stress the harmful, disastrous effects of the many liberalizations voted in this parliament in the fields of, for example, energy, transport and, today, postal services. disastrous effects in that liberalization has led to major disadvantages for many of our citizens, both in terms of the deterioration in the quality of these services since they were liberalized - just look at what has happened in sweden - and in terms of the almost systematic increase in the price of these services, or the loss of many public jobs, which are very rarely replaced by jobs of poor quality. that is why, mr president, i will vote, together with the french-speaking belgian socialist delegation, against the liberalization of postal services, while trying to improve the content of the proposal by means of amendments which could safeguard some of these services, in particular those which re-introduce the possibility for each member state to choose the reserved area formula in order to finance the universal service which every citizen must be able to benefit from.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. mr president, i welcome the debate but not the method. the commissioner, employment law is first and foremost a competence of the member states and also and above all of the social partners. it guarantees the right to a fair wage, good working conditions and protection against dismissal, and it provides a stable social climate that we need for economic growth and productivity. the reference point is the normal employment contract and not all kinds of precarious statutes. i am therefore pleased that the report by the committee on social affairs and employment emphasizes these two essential elements and that the suggestion in my opinion by the committee on the internal market for a european initiative on chain liability has been taken up. the debate on the relaxation of dismissal conditions sends the wrong signal to european workers. i have heard a great deal of indignation in my country in recent weeks about the redundancy payments made at opel antwerp, but i notice that there is little indignation among those same people about the immoral restructuring plans that companies are carrying out. both the parliament's report and the european trade union confederation are very critical of the green paper and i therefore hope that you, commissioner, will be able to respond to these criticisms. if one party in the social dialogue expresses such criticism, then a decent response must be given.
in writing. i voted for the stubb report because i agree with the main points of it. the starting point for our action must remain full multilingualism, in respect for the principles of equality of all citizens, for the sake of optimum communication and for the sake of democracy. at the same time, however, we must be careful about the costs, otherwise we risk losing the social support for the multilingualism of our institution.
mr president, i'm in the middle here. a small side note in curtailing the use of mercury. that's what everyone's for. this is a good thing, because in many sectors the use of mercury has been phased out and indeed needs to be replaced by other materials. but a total ban on handicrafts, such as the traditional mercury barometer, is too far-reaching in our view. i recently visited the company dingens in the belgian municipality of leopoldsburg, and that company has been proving for decades that mercury barometers can be produced in a sustainable, environmentally responsible way. moreover, such a traditional barometer has an unlimited life span, unlike its successor, the digital barometer, which runs on batteries and thus consumes energy. the manufacturers of traditional barometers have also become adept at the sustainable maintenance of these instruments. no mercury from barometers is leaking into the waste stream. i therefore call on the commission, madam president - and i will stop here - and on all those concerned to send a signal to the sector concerned and to take account of the mercury barometer producers' justified specific situation in the evaluation, which is now two years in the making, so that they may, i hope, retain the right to an exceptional system.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply, but i think that the commissioner has already said that he is not prepared to accept amendments nos 1 and 2 because he is not satisfied with the way in which the commission has dealt with the problem of the problem of the environment. i am opposed to any form of european intervention which leads not only to the loss of traditional customs and production methods but also to the loss of jobs. in addition, the question of whether the ban on mercury barometers would be an effective measure is very much in doubt. other uses of mercury are much more extensive and much more problematic than those used in the production of barometers. moreover, mercury barometers do not require batteries and are permanently active. the european parliament has once again missed an opportunity to take account of a concrete reality, namely that small and mediumsized enterprises play a very important role in our economy and in europe. and the last thing these smes need is more european regulatory meddling and meddling.
in writing. president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mercury is a dangerous product and must be handled with care. no one in this house has any doubt about that. unfortunately, the european parliament has today taken this position to the absurd in its vote on the sornosa martínez report. i'm very sorry about that. by insisting on a total ban on the production of traditional barometers, the commission, followed today by a majority of this parliament, has dealt a death blow to a sector which represents 360 years of european tradition. the fact that all the barometer manufacturers in the european union account for only a mere tenth of a percent of the annual consumption of mercury, mercury which is 100% recycled at the time of purchase, makes the situation twice as bad. clearly, the choice of common sense has not been made here today.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, whenever we talk in this house about beer, wine or other alcoholic beverages, the mood is very high. this was before the brewery agreements. it's no different now. fifteen years ago the council agreed on minimum rates of excise duty on alcoholic beverages. the intention was clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the community's fisheries. so many years after the date we have to conclude that the decisions of that time have missed their purpose. for example, some member states, for example the scandinavian countries, apply rates which are much higher than the minimum rates for public health reasons. this is no shame at all. each member state has the right to pursue an excise policy which is in line with its national traditions and policy preferences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the current disparities in excise duties between member states and the existing distortions of competition will continue to exist. i therefore supported the rapporteur, mrs lulling, in her vote against.
member of the commission. on 13 june 2007, the commission adopted a final communication, which follows on from the 2006 communication. in this communication, the commission fully supports the member states' objective of combating illegal labour market practices. the commission recognises that national authorities must carry out appropriate checks to ensure that service providers comply with national working conditions. however, an assessment of the progress made since 2006, carried out by the commission on the basis of information provided by member states and the social partners at eu level, shows that some of the measures applied in some member states are disproportionate and go beyond what is necessary to ensure the effective protection of posted workers. as indicated in the communication of june 2007, this appears to be related to a lack of effective cooperation between the competent authorities in the member states and a lack of access to information. in its communications, the commission recalls that the free movement of services, which is one of the fundamental principles of the ec treaty, can only be restricted by rules which can be justified by overriding reasons of general interest, such as the protection of workers, and these reasons must be proportionate. whether the national measures in question, such as the requirement to have a representative resident in the host country or the obligation to keep certain documents relating to social and working conditions on its territory for inspection purposes, can be considered legitimate and proportionate, must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. the commission will now thoroughly assess the situation in each member state to determine which control measures are to be considered unjustified and disproportionate. if necessary, the commission will initiate infringement proceedings to ensure compliance with community legislation. i would like to stress that the commission is also examining whether the measures taken by individual member states are sufficient and effective and, if they are not, will follow the same procedure, since the objective is to protect workers effectively without restricting the internal market. the commission does not intend to publish further guidance at this stage. the final decision on the compatibility of the national measures in question is to be taken by the court of justice, which has already given judgment, and not by the commission or the parliament. as regards cooperation on information, the checks carried out by the commission show that encouraging improvements have been made. however, further improvements remain necessary. the commission therefore proposes to improve and strengthen administrative cooperation with the member states, including the involvement of other stakeholders, in particular the social partners, who play an important role in the enforcement of the rules. the evaluation of enforcement actions shows that although the application of the directive has not led to many formal complaints or legal proceedings, some issues, such as the effectiveness of cross-border sanction enforcement or the protection of workers in the case of multiple subcontracting, merit further consideration. the commission intends to involve the social partners and the member states in this reflection. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that the june 2007 communication states that the commission does not, in principle, wish to call into question the different social models of the member states, nor the way in which individual states organise their systems of industrial relations and collective bargaining. it is, of course, the commission's task to ensure that european community law is strictly applied and, in such cases, where disproportionate measures are taken which are not aimed at protecting workers but which have the effect of restricting the freedom to provide services in the internal market, the commission must of course act as required by the treaty.
i am glad to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this area. on the one hand, it is of course good that the commission is continuing to work on the implementation of the posting of workers directive, because almost every week we hear of new cases of social exploitation of posted workers, and this situation also put a great deal of pressure on working conditions in our countries. but on the other hand, we have the strong impression that the commission still does not strike the right balance between guaranteeing freedom to provide services on the one hand and protecting workers on the other. it is clear, commissioner, that a number of control measures introduced by member states, such as the compulsory retention of documents at the workplace, the imposition of posting certificates or the presence of an authorized representative, are essential elements in order to protect the working conditions of posted workers. it is also clear, commissioner, that member states can only rely on their own national measures, because the much needed transnational cooperation between administrations and access to the necessary information are virtually lacking, and international enforcement mechanisms simply do not work. but the communication suggests that a package of these measures is not compatible with community law and even threatens infringement proceedings before the much needed steps have been taken to ensure the flow of information, to make cooperation between member states really work and to set up an effective system of sanctions. of course, my group welcomes the commission's intention to set up a high-level standing committee to help the member states to develop their cooperation. but administrative cooperation, commissioner, is not enough. what we are also asking for is a european platform for crossborder cooperation between the competent inspection services of the member states. as long as this aspect is not regulated, a crucial instrument for enforcing the posting of workers directive is lacking.
i would like to congratulate portugal on its presidency and thank it for its commitment to close cooperation with this parliament. you can rest assured, mr president, that we will take you at your word. we welcome your intention to organise an eu-africa summit and an eu-brazil summit. however, as regards the eu-africa summit, it should be clear that eu sanctions cannot be put in brackets during your presidency. to put it in plain words: there is no place at such a summit for a leader who has plunged his own people into misery, poverty and famine and who persists in it. such a clear attitude does not make things easier for you, mr president, but that is simply a consequence of a system which we ourselves introduced at the time. i wish you the best of luck with the summit with brazil. brazil is an important country and it is good that the links between the eu and latin and central america are mentioned more closely. i would also like to ask you a question, mr president. i read in a brochure about your presidency that your intention is to contribute to disarmament and non-proliferation. i would appreciate it if you could explain that a little bit more. finally, i do not want to talk about something that has not been discussed. it is clear, mr president, that during the next six months you will also have to face all the crises that may develop anywhere in the world. and there is one that will undoubtedly be at the top of the agenda and which, by the way, we shall be debating this afternoon: the crisis in the middle east and in palestine. i hope that you will be able to make a positive contribution to this.
i can only say that this parliament, too, has now admitted in an official report and in very clear terms what everyone was able to say after the brussels european summit, namely that the european constitution, which was rejected by the dutch and french electorate and could therefore never enter into force from a strictly legal point of view, is being preserved and implemented in its entirety through legal and political devices. the tactic of implementing parts of the constitution in secret, which was already followed in many ways after the french and dutch referendums - think of the making of the charter of fundamental rights binding, although it is a non-binding text - that tactic is now also becoming official european policy. this parliament would not be this parliament if it did not, as it has always done, distinguish between the so-called 'good' member states, those who blindly adhere to the federal creed and follow the federal path, and the so-called 'bad' member states. but the height of cynicism, ladies and gentlemen, is of course the call by this parliament to - and i quote literally - 're-engage the european citizens in the continuation of the constitutional process'. in fact, in numerous reports, starting with the notorious duff-voggenhuber report, this parliament has swept aside the result of the french and dutch referendums. this parliament is not in tune with the will of the citizens it claims to represent. this parliament is gradually becoming the negation of all that is true democracy. (applause from the right)
we have voted with the flemish socialists in favour of all the amendments, including the compromise amendments which represent progress compared with the original commission proposal. but we ultimately voted against it to send a strong signal that we're still concerned. in fact, a lot of homework was given to the member states to ensure that liberalisation was brought to a successful conclusion. they will have to ensure that their social legislation applies to all operators. they will also have to ensure that by 2010 it is clear how they will finance universal service in a competitive market. we thought it would have been better to wait a while before making a final decision.
in writing. i voted, as did a large majority of my colleagues, for the ferber report, namely a total and controlled liberalisation of postal services by 1 january 2011. the compromise adopted today is in fact the result of two dynamics which are dear to me as a liberal: the dynamic of an open market economy which is incompatible with monopolies established in law or in fact, and the dynamic of the special interests of consumers who must benefit from real and fair competition, mainly in terms of prices, but not only! because another factor is paramount: the human dimension. and i am glad that the vote this afternoon took account of this by introducing a social regulation clause, by recalling the essential role of postal services in terms of social and territorial cohesion and by giving the member states the final say on the financing of the universal service. these are all positive signs which should reassure european postal workers and also help to break the confusion which some left-wing members of parliament have cleverly cultivated: the liberalisation of a sector does not mean its privatisation, this european directive does not mean the closure of post offices!
in writing. the ferber report is the next in a series of reports on the liberalization of universal services, which still holds out serious opportunities to guarantee the principle of equality in a social europe, alongside the ideal of freedom. postal services may compete with each other, but whether this will improve quality and lower prices remains to be seen. i think it is irresponsible that the new directive does not provide clear guarantees for the quality of the so-called reserved service, that its financing remains unclear and that the social agreements laid down in collective agreements should not be compulsorily respected. if the market opens fully in 2009, it is uncertain whether more remote areas will receive the same service at the same price as densely populated areas. the ability to send and receive letters at a reasonable price is a basic right! in addition, postal service providers will do their utmost to keep their costs as low as possible in order to compete with each other. fixed jobs will turn into insecure part-time jobs. the postmen will be underpaid, there will be many redundancies, more post offices will be threatened with closure, and soon we will have blue, yellow and green mailboxes in addition to the red ones! i do not support the report.
in writing. the vote on the liberalization of the postal services today is the result of a compromise between the epp group and the socialist group. however, this compromise clearly implies the definitive liberalisation of the last part of postal activities managed by the public authorities, and this without any guarantee as to the financing of the universal service and the maintenance of employment for the 1.6 million european postal workers. as a socialist and shadow rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i could only vote against this green light for liberalisation, despite the improvement compared to the commission's original proposal.
in writing. president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when you see the advertising campaigns for air tickets, you get the impression that you can fly around europe for a few euros. when the payment is made, the sober up. suddenly, the price of the ticket is being increased by all sorts of additional costs in the form of tolls, surcharges and taxes. parliament is putting an end to these evil practices today. that is a good thing and i have therefore strongly supported the report by the committee on transport. the airline consumer has the right to a fair and transparent price without unpleasant surprises. the european parliament is once again taking the lead in protecting air passengers, following the introduction of additional rights to protect passengers in the event of their flight being rescheduled, cancelled or delayed. it is important that member states provide for swift and effective penalties in the event of non-application of these new provisions. trust is good, but control is better.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we are totally opposed to the idea of extending social protection at european level. the references in the report to the principle of subsidiarity and the method of open coordination are mere appearances. we therefore say very clearly that any attempt to introduce social protection at european level is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and that this is pushing the european union further down the path of a centralistic superstate. the subsidiarity principle means that the european union can only act to promote crossborder labour mobility. the intervention of this parliament is further illustrated by its call on the member states to no longer close off their labour markets but to open them fully to workers from the new member states. we therefore say 'yes' to flexibility and 'yes' to social protection, but 'no' to a european superstate which is trying to impose itself in this area too.
in writing. europe is not a social europe until it succeeds in establishing a system of minimum social standards for each type of worker in a single market with free movement. the commission's green paper on the modernisation of labour law already addresses this. the protasiewicz report calls for any reform of labour law to take into account principles such as gender equality and non-discrimination, decent work, the protection of all workers (regardless of the type of contract) and the necessary role of the social partners and other representative organisations of civil society in the development of labour legislation. improved labour law is able to adapt to change, protect workers and reduce uncertainty. if labour law is to meet the challenges of the 21st century, it also needs strong instruments to curb the growing informal economy and exploitation. the report also calls for greater convergence between member states to increase legal certainty, for example on crossborder work. i will support the report, although i miss a reference to equal pay for equal work and it lacks some paragraphs of force, for example on working hours, training (access rather than right to) and the link between labour law and lifelong learning and education.
president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, the previous speeches have already clearly shown that there has been a change in our respective positions on the situation in the middle east in general and the israeli-palestinian problem in particular. i too will bear witness to this, but what i will not do - unlike some - is to distance myself from these positions, because i actually feel, also on behalf of my group, that i am partly responsible for everything that has happened and not happened so far. it 's a little too easy to say , it's these or genes, and we're the good guys now, because we know what's going to happen next. i think we are all partly responsible for the way things are going, for the failure of one to act or the delay of the other to act. in any case, what has happened in gaza has seemed to be a total impasse, but at the same time it has led to a number of developments that represent, as it were, a window of opportunity. the courageous attitude of the president of the palestinian authority, of the prime minister, the resumption of talks with israel, the release of alan johnston, which we of course welcome, and the release of a number of palestinian prisoners. we just wish more were released. the renewed initiative of the arab league, which is particularly important, and the evidence of the willingness of egypt, jordan and other arab countries to commit themselves much more, to get much more involved in the further talks, are all equally encouraging signs. that does not mean, of course, that the situation in gaza would not be miserable for those involved. i therefore welcome the commission's renewed initiatives, as i welcome the fact that israel, although it has waited far too long, has finally begun to transfer taxpayers' money to the palestinian authority. i would like to conclude - because i want to respect your call for me to keep to my speaking time, mr president - by calling on all of us to have the political courage to work together resolutely towards the solution we all know: two viable states living peacefully side by side within internationally recognized borders. if we can summon that political courage, all of us, and put aside our small and sometimes big differences, then maybe there's still a dawn in the east.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, thank you for your understanding. the european union must support the pragmatic forces within the palestinian camp. that means that the aid and resources should go to the palestinian authority in the west bank, but not to hamas in gaza. we must also urge the israeli authorities to transfer the customs revenues to the palestinian authority in the west bank and to ease the restrictions on the movement of persons between the west bank and israel as much as possible. it is indeed of great importance that iran's influence be curbed.
president, my report of december 2005 reached a compromise on first reading on a regulation guaranteeing the uniform application in the eu of the wto decision of 30 august 2003. however, almost four years after the date of this decision, it is clear that it is an empty box. what was feared then is now coming true. the system is far too cumbersome and it doesn't work. i am as shocked as mr agnoletto is by the council's reply, which has failed to respond to any of parliament's questions or concerns. the ratification of the trips protocol should call for a thorough reflection by the eu and, above all, for a more coherent policy which should enable the poorest countries to develop their own capacity to develop vital medicines. without a strong signal in that direction, i am not convinced, mr president and mr susta, that we should simply sign this waiver.
mr president, it is true that europe is facing all kinds of economic, social and environmental challenges in the maritime sector which require a common approach, but that is not the point here. the question is whether a comprehensive european integrated maritime policy with all the regulations that will eventually entail is necessary to meet this. i think that a european maritime policy and management will benefit much more from practical, far-reaching cooperation between member states and other actors than from any new regulation. the message is that we must coordinate, exchange information between member states, reduce administrative burdens and encourage maritime research. but in no case can the european union interfere with matters which fall within the scope of the subsidiarity principle or the operation of the market, such as coastal defence, spatial planning, the regulation of the market for seaports.
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before we get to the heart of the matter and talk about the resolution on vietnam before us today, i would like to point out something which i think is important. i am wondering how the urgent cases we deal with here in parliament are chosen. i do not doubt the urgency of the various problems in the countries we are talking about, but it seems to me that some countries are completely forgotten in comparison with others, about which we have had the opportunity to speak several times in this parliament. i would like to take one example, just one, colombia, with its many murdered trade unionists, its hostages who are living in an increasingly difficult situation. however, according to my research, although it has been the subject of specific resolutions, it has never been an emergency since 2002, which is still a record. however, the main reason why i am speaking today is to refer to the situation in vietnam. and while it seems that 2006 was a year of political openness, which allowed for some relaxation, it appears that religious freedom is one of the problems that ngos report to us. it is important that vietnam takes into account all the religions practised in its territory and allows the entire population to choose their own religion. freedom of thought and speech must not be undermined under any circumstances and vietnamese citizens, whoever they are, must be able to express themselves through the various means at their disposal, including the mass media, such as the internet. i would also like to stress, despite the situation, that there have been efforts in vietnam, contrary perhaps to what my colleague mrs korhola has just said. this country has already made some efforts, which we noticed, especially with the asean delegation when we visited in 2006. it is important that we continue to support this country so that the rights of all citizens can be fully respected. may this resolution help to do so.
mr president, you may be aware that normally a peaceful demonstration against the islamization of europe would have taken place in brussels on 11 september. a number of citizens from several european member states want to organise this action, and to address it primarily to the european institutions in general and to the european parliament in particular. the meeting took place in luxembourg square, near the entrance to the european parliament. but now the socialist mayor of brussels has outright banned that demonstration. the right to freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are thus being trampled on. it is not just a brussels or belgian internal matter, but a matter of concern to us as the european parliament, and it would therefore be appropriate for you to protest against this ban on protesting in brussels. it is not possible that we in europe, with the european institutions, should promote democratic fundamental rights all over the world, while in brussels, in the heart of the european union, these same fundamental rights are being trampled underfoot.
in writing. more than 60 people have died and 184,000 hectares of land have been burned in the fires that ravaged greece at the end of august. europe has not been left on the sidelines. solidarity has played its full part in the european rapid reaction instrument which we voted for last march. a common civil protection mechanism, which provides for 30 states to make resources (airlift trucks, tanker trucks, trained personnel ("green helmets")) available to countries affected by disasters, whether man-made or natural. i am not a fundamentalist in favour of a systematic transfer of powers to europe, but i am convinced - and i have repeated this several times in this house, notably during the dramatic fires in portugal in 2003 - of the usefulness of a community civil protection mechanism. because natural disasters know no boundaries! the european project must urgently prove its added value. it is up to him to serve as a model so that, beyond this particular disaster, all european citizens feel solidarity with one another.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs ayala sender in particular for her report on the logistics of freight transport. i should also like to say to mrs ayala sender that i remember our visit to zaragoza, where we were able to see the value of all the efforts currently being made in europe to develop logistics. your report, madam president, gives us great hope for the commission's approach in the communication it adopted in 2006 on logistics. this resolution is an important step in the joint efforts of parliament and the commission to improve the functioning of freight transport in europe. i feel very encouraged as i will be presenting the action plan for logistics in a few weeks' time. madam president, you have spelled out the issues very clearly: the economic dimension, the performance of logistics, which is a key factor in the competitiveness of our economies. logistics facilitates the flow of goods and helps to make our products competitive by giving them access to more distant markets. logistics has thus become an important, dynamic, job-creating industry and europe has the best performing european logistics companies in this field. in addition, logistics contributes to environmental performance. as you said, it helps to reduce congestion. freight transport and logistics must also meet the challenges of reducing road accidents and emissions of pollutants and noise. efforts in the logistics sector are not aimed at regulating this growing sector, but at securing a sustainable future for it by enabling it to mobilise the potential for efficiency that still exists in the transport sector. this is why we have developed the concept of co-modality, the efficient use of different modes of transport in combination with each other. in this respect, logistics offers us the opportunity to reconcile economic and environmental objectives. however, a number of obstacles to the development of logistics remain. firstly, the lack of harmonisation and the absence of common standards which prevent the adoption of new solutions, in particular the development of information and communication technologies. we could plan freight transport better, we could improve the operation and safety of transport systems, we should improve the tracking of goods and ensure that customers have the information they need. the supply chain must function as a coherent whole, even if it includes several partners and combines several modes of transport. secondly, we must strengthen the importance of quality in freight transport with indicators of service quality, with the sharing of good practice, which implies improving the training of professionals, the recognition of their skills. thirdly, we must tackle the problem of bottlenecks, obstacles to the transport of goods. we consulted all the logistics actors and received five hundred responses which allow us to better prepare the logistics action plan. the report by mrs ayala sender also rightly points to the simplification of administrative procedures, the need for investment in infrastructure and the difficulties of logistics in an urban context. we need concrete answers to all these questions. i am glad that the committee on transport and tourism has really attached importance to the action plan for logistics which i will present in october. this action plan should propose concrete measures with clearly identified objectives and a precise timetable. this logistics action plan will be part of a package of initiatives including a freight-priority railway network, a port policy and two commission staff documents on the maritime space without barriers and on motorways of the sea. the adoption of these various measures will be an important signal and it is in this way that we can come up with efficient, integrated, environmentally friendly and, of course, user-friendly transport alternatives. the action plan will be accompanied by measures to make rail, sea and inland waterway transport more attractive. the commission alone does not claim to solve the freight transport problems facing europe, but on this point too, mrs ayala sender's report sends a message to the member states to encourage them to develop their own initiatives in favour of logistics, in particular by investing in infrastructure, in close coordination with the european union. we will only succeed if the member states and the european union act together. the logistical problem, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is a major problem. it is by working on this that we will achieve the modal shift we are calling for in the fight against global warming. i believe that it is through good logistics and good transport infrastructure that we will make european mobility sustainable, that is to say compatible with our environmental requirements for the good of the economy and for the good of the european citizens. mrs ayala sender, let me sincerely thank you for your contribution to these advances in logistics, which is a key to the development of sustainable transport.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the commission and the rapporteur for their work. freight transport logistics is such a broad subject that it is not always easy to focus on the essentials. as they say in french, "qui trop embrasse, mal étreint". so let us be glad that we were able to pick out some of the main points today! there are new ways to go, because the field is not easy. it is moving in the field of tension between economy and growth on the one hand and, among other things, environment and security on the other. in simple terms, everyone wants the goods, but no one wants the transport. the sector, which is very employment-intensive, does not have the best image. we must help to remind people that, firstly, it is economically important, secondly, we can also go in new directions and, thirdly, there is still employment potential there today. i 'll stick to that . the reference to training is very important to me and countries should take up this reference. specialization in these areas can lead to new and interesting careers. research can also lead to more efficient, environmentally friendly and also safer transport. cooperation with the countries remains the key. the commission has already made a number of proposals. everyone thinks globally, no one wants to act locally. in short, we want these networks everywhere, but the funds are not there, whether we are negotiating with the council to have more funds for the transeuropean networks or with the countries themselves. as far as transport is concerned, i think that no one has anything against moving goods by rail and water, but efficiency is the most important thing. efficiency is not just a question of price. if rail becomes cheaper but not more efficient, we will not make this modal shift. so we have to combine efficiency and cost if we're going to do this thing right. the last thing i want to do is to address the subject of megalinking and standardization. we cannot prohibit or allow everything at european level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear that the soft coercion method introduced by regulation 551/2004 to encourage member states to implement these more functional airspace blocks has not worked. i also understand that this is mainly due to the fact that many member states are putting a lot of pressure on the brakes, preferring not to interfere, emphasizing their sovereignty, etc., but we must not accept this. the aviation sector is a sector which must be tackled in all its aspects at european level, in the interests of industry, consumers, safety and the environment. at a time, commissioner, when the climate is so high on the political agenda, we cannot afford to have planes making useless detours, wasting a lot of kerosene, etc. we must absolutely push this dossier forward, together with other instruments, sesar, the emissions trading system, etc. we cannot continue to waste tens of millions of euros on inefficient airspace management with numerous redundant air traffic control centres. it is not a question of cutting it, and that is the point. moreover, we are in danger of reaching capacity limits quickly because of the rapid growth in the sector. the existing bilateral contacts with a view to the formation of these functional airspace blocks have yielded little, and that is why we must indeed roll up our sleeves. the appointment of a coordinator and a steering group seems to me to be a step in the right direction, but at the same time i fear, commissioner, that this bottom-up approach will be insufficient, that we have reached its limits and that we must therefore consider taking new legislative initiatives.
mr president, i am sorry to say that many people in this hemisphere are once again afraid to call things by their name. because whether one likes to hear it or not, it is a painful reality that international terrorism is nothing more and nothing less than a war declared by islamic extremism against the west and against europe. we must dare to acknowledge that the enemy is already within our walls. throughout europe, jihadist networks are operating and calls are being made in mosques for a holy war against our open society. we had an illustration of this yesterday in denmark. it is therefore more than ever time for comprehensive measures against this islamic trojan horse. we have the right and the duty to defend our open society in the values of that society. but are we still doing that? as my colleague mr borghezio has just said, a typical expression of this european cowardice is the decision of the socialist mayor of brussels, mr thielemans, to ban a demonstration on tuesday, 11 september, against the progressive islamization of europe, because this demonstration might offend the ever-growing and electorally interesting muslim population. europe wants to promote the value of open society and freedom of expression throughout the world, but in its own official capital the defenders of the same european values are silenced. it says a lot about this parliament that it does not take a clear position on this.
in writing. at a time when many holidaymakers are returning to work, it is useful to ask about safety rules on board aircraft and at airports. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. there is no way i'm compromising security. however, many passengers complained about the way this ban is applied in the various european airports: in one, it is possible to take in hand luggage products bought at the airport, in the other, it is forbidden! furthermore, it is difficult to impose such a measure on travellers unless the added value of the measure in terms of safety has been proven beyond doubt. which doesn't seem to be the case. it seems to me therefore reasonable to ask the commission to prove the validity of this measure and, if it is proved, to provide for uniform application in full transparency. so that the passengers would finally know to which saint to dedicate themselves!
president. - the situation in zimbabwe is becoming hopeless, and that is a euphemism. the international community, including the eu, is unfortunately watching helplessly. i would like to ask the council a short supplementary question, because the portuguese presidency is organising a summit between africa and the european union in lisbon on 8 and 9 december. in recent years this has not been possible because there was no agreement on whether or not to invite mugabe. my question is very specific and i expect a specific answer: does the presidency intend to invite president mugabe to lisbon in december? and secondly, how do they hope to bring the situation in zimbabwe to the fore?
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, the report by elena valenciano touches on a key point of european values: the dialogue on human rights. this dialogue, which is reflected in various agreements with a number of countries and in various instruments, is in a way the signature of the soft power that is europe. this report was widely accepted. today, the only amendments that remain are those tabled by the far right, the identity, tradition, sovereignty group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but what does this group want, which has recently become a singularity in brussels by supporting a demonstration against islam, which was banned by the authorities? well, that's very interesting. first, they intend to restrict human rights to civil and political rights and to remove social, environmental, economic and cultural rights from the text. in invoking the un international covenant on civil and political rights, they fail to mention that at the same time the same un general assembly voted for the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, which they are quick to forget. secondly, they propose to link genital mutilation, early marriage and human trafficking to religious practices - islam, no doubt, the amalgamation is rude. no, you can't! these practices are reprehensible; they may be cultural, they may be tribal, but they are criminal and they are not religious. thirdly, the its is going all out on turkey in a run on the party of mr erdogan and mr gül, which is singularly lacking in foundation. in conclusion, the report by mrs elena valenciano is a remarkable report, open but at the same time very firm. he's anything but angelic. i am not saying that the council should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it is a pity that some extremist groups have made it a platform for intolerance and hatred.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the consumer acquis. in the union we have been keen to ensure that consumer protection is strictly enforced since the 1970s and we have achieved a great deal. but so many years later, and so many laws later, it is time to look at this policy area, which concerns all europeans, from a distance, to update it in the various aspects indicated in the green paper itself and to make it more coherent both in terms of definitions and concepts. it is good that we can have this discussion in the same week as the debate on the single market review and the debate on better regulation. consumer laws should be good laws and consumer protection and the internal market are so closely linked both legally and politically that it would also be a good thing if the two revisions were brought together. it is time to dispel the misconception that the completion of the internal market and the pursuit of consumer protection are opposite objectives. european policies not only add value by providing a high level of consumer protection but also, and to a significant extent, by allowing consumers to enjoy the full benefits of the internal market. for this, trust, legal certainty and knowledge of the facts are crucial. the so-called mixed approach, which has already been explained by my colleagues, will enable us to achieve these three objectives. i am also convinced that we must encourage the practice of going towards maximum harmonization wherever it makes sense. finally, let us not forget about enforcement. she's the key to good regulation. but enforcement of laws is not just a matter for private claims, individually or collectively, but is also a matter for the member states to achieve in a structural way, in a structural way through sound supervision and through much better cooperation between administrations across national borders. the recent introduction of unsafe toys on our market - a colleague has already referred to this - shows that we still have threats to the health and safety of consumers and that member states are not taking the task just mentioned sufficiently to heart. i would therefore like to hear from the commissioner, whose introduction i particularly enjoyed, whether she also intends to do something in the area of structural enforcement by the member states in the review of the acquis.
mr president, while this parliament may have all the credit for the human rights policy of official europe, the reality is that the human rights clauses in agreements with many arab and african states often remain dead letter and that there is no real and consistent human rights policy. what about the policy towards china, where it is clear to everyone that the commercial and economic interests of the union and its member states take precedence over human rights? but the top of the bill is, of course, the policy towards turkey. while the report constantly refers to women's rights, europe is opening its doors wide to this islamic country, where the situation of women's rights has been steadily deteriorating since the akp took office. in any case, our group and the flemish interest no longer share in such hypocrisy.
president. - mr dillen has just rightly pointed out the great gulf between the official rhetoric of europe and the concrete policy of the european union on human rights. i would like to add something to that. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the human rights situation in the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the human rights situation in the european union. i think that this parliament and its president should take a stand against the dictates of the brussels ps mayor thielemans, who forbids a critical voice against the advance of intolerant islam in our own european capital and in all our european countries. i shall in any case be joining the debate next tuesday, 11 september, in front of the european parliament, in favour of freedom of expression and against the advance of islam.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. we see that the present government is trying to silence the legitimate political protest of students and journalists by arbitrary arrests and detentions. since the new government took over in january 2007, more than 250,000 people have been imprisoned. since the declaration of the state of emergency, the military has been responsible for numerous tortures and murders. but i would like to make another point: an issue inherent in this state and which persists regardless of the change of power. it is something that is often under-reported by all kinds of human rights organizations because apparently it is not allowed to be said. i am talking about the mass and systematic gang rapes in bangladesh. violence against women and young girls is one of the most egregious violations of human rights in this islamic state. this type of violence includes sexual and domestic violence, gang rape, acid throwing and honour killings. whether one likes to hear it or not, it is undeniable that through these atrocities, extremist muslims are purging bangladesh of its religious minorities in order to turn the country into a monolithic, islamic state. every government in bangladesh is passive and this is a real disgrace. in 1984 bangladesh ratified the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. it is high time that this parliament gave a very clear signal and pointed out the responsibility of the government of bangladesh.
mr president, just a statement on the sidelines of this plenary session. as you know, the first round of voting for the 2007 sakharov prize will take place shortly. there were five candidates nominated. the its group also nominated the ecumenical patriarch of constantinople. we have found that the patriarch was pressured to refuse his candidacy. i think that this has never happened since the sakharov prize was established in the european parliament. he agreed to be nominated by our group - mr binev asked him to do so and it was all right. it is a form of pure intolerance that is taking place here. i am not aware of any case where pressure has been put on someone to withdraw his candidacy simply because the nomination comes from a group that is against the tide. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a brief exchange of views on burma will give us an opportunity to express our solidarity with what has been happening there in recent days; that's incredibly important. there are enough of us who are very concerned about the situation in myanmar, the burmese in general and mrs aung san suu kyi, to make room for that - it will not take long - in this part-session of our parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will continue to make proposals in the future. to meet the co2 targets for the automotive sector in time, we must invest more in research and development. that's very clear. the revision of the multiannual budget, commissioner, offers us the opportunity to do that. research efforts for new technology, for renewable fuels for transport; these efforts must be drastically increased. this must also be a priority within the new european institute of technology. the european automobile industry, ladies and gentlemen, can take the lead in this sector. there are japanese car manufacturers now advertising zero-emission as their goal. i think that we in the european union are perfectly capable of being the first in the world to put that objective into practice. then there's the other sector that's crying out for new environmental technology: the construction sector. this has been referred to repeatedly. the sector which, according to the european commission itself, is identified as having the greatest potential for co2 reduction. the construction of new energy-efficient houses, the so-called passive houses, is still in its infancy and these houses are also relatively expensive. it is high time that we also accelerated our efforts there, both in terms of research and development and in terms of fiscal incentives. we can perfectly well reduce the vat on energy-efficient materials and renewable energy in construction further, possibly even to zero. the european commission - and you know this better than i do, commissioner - is in any case planning to put forward new proposals by 2009 on the reduced vat rate, and these proposals for energy-efficient measures in the building sector can of course be a perfect fit for that. so we're looking at big deals in the coming months and years. it requires bold action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that, on the whole, we have reached an honourable compromise in the negotiations with the council. i would like to thank the members, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, mr el khadraoui, mr rack, mr zile and others, and the chairman of the conciliation committee, mr vidal-quadras roca, who i think has conducted the negotiations very well, and of course the german presidency, as mr savary has already said; i think that mr tiefensee and his people have worked very hard on this and have shown a great deal of persuasiveness in the council. i would also like to thank the people of the commission, the commissioners and their services, because i think we have also received a lot of help from that angle. achieved what? i said an honorable compromise. i think that parliament has got a number of important things out of the way here. firstly, there are basic rights for all rail passengers, which was not the original intention. basic rights include: availability of picket lines, liability of the railway undertaking for its passengers, for baggage, for what it offers in services, insurance; it also means the right to transport for disabled people, no discrimination. i think that is a very important point that we have reached for all train travellers. ensure personal safety for all train passengers. these are things that railway companies will have to guarantee for everyone from the end of 2009. secondly, i think it is important that we have made the distinction, where it was necessary, not between cross-border or national but between long distance and short distance and that we have therefore said, on the basis of objective data within one european market, look for certain things for those types of train travellers, for others we cannot; so we make a different distinction than national or international. i think that's not unimportant. for long distance, we have established compensation and assistance for delays, including for people who are regularly late, for example commuters and subscribers; we have assistance for disabled people and people with reduced mobility at stations and on trains, especially for long distance travel, and hopefully soon for all travellers. we've got complaints handling in the directive. we have made a distinction between local, urban and regional transport where we allow exceptions, but where we allow those exceptions only after they have been defined by the member states and under the supervision of the commission. i think it is not unimportant that member states can now say: look, we make distinctions between regional lines based on criteria that we set ourselves. we put some very precise things on paper there. i think that is the merit of the european parliament. i have had to do my best to convince the commission to abandon its original distinction between international and national and then together we have succeeded in convincing the council to do the same. the first was, i have to be honest, easier than the second. we have had to overcome a great deal of resistance in the council and i think we have been able to make a great deal of progress there. but we have to admit that things are not going as fast as we would have liked. that there's a three-year, five-year exemption for long distance. but again, this exception is only possible after the member states and railway companies have given the european commission the reasons for it. it is not unimportant that one should not just get an exception, but that one should also give reasons for it. i think that together, by the end of 2009, we will have taken a major step forward. the basic rights. we are entering a debate which railway companies and member states, regulators in the member states, can no longer avoid. they must start to do so, they must start to discuss with the passengers, with the train travellers, what their rights are, how they are going to guarantee them; i also realise that it is a debate which will take a very long time. the railway companies are not the fastest companies for a number of objective reasons, in some cases not only because of their history and business culture, but also because they are very heavy investments that require time. i thought that we as a parliament should take this into account. in any case, railway companies and member states can no longer avoid discussing higher quality, better service to the customer. i think that the third package in general is a step forward towards a european railway market. an open market, a dynamic market, where different players bid for the hand of the customer, in such a way that they are also forced to take care of that customer. my report on the rights of workers, i think, is a contribution to that; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the report by gilles savary on driving licences is an important step forward. in an open market, you need things like that to ensure that trains can go anywhere and that the border is not really a barrier. i regret that we did not take the necessary steps in the georg jarzembowski report on the market. that we continue to distinguish between crossborder and non-crossborder and that we do not do for national rail transport what we would do for international rail transport, namely open up the market and ensure that as many players as possible have a chance in that infrastructure. i think we as a parliament have missed an opportunity there. everyone knows the reason why that happened. i do not know whether we would have made a success of our discussions with the council, but i am sorry that we did not go all the way, as the british so nicely say. i think, mr president, that parliament has done what it could do, that we have urged the council to go far ahead and go as far ahead as possible. did we want more? of course we would have liked more, but i hope that a large majority of our colleagues will accept that parliament has weighed in on the decision-making here, that we have taken all our chances in the mediation and that we have taken a step forward in the european railway market which is important both for the citizens and for the union's economy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have come to the end of a very long process and the result is, of course, a compromise that makes no one completely happy, but also no one completely unhappy. we all want a bright future for rail transport, but we have a slightly different view on how to achieve this. i repeat what i have said before, namely that i do not believe that liberalisation alone is a miracle cure in all circumstances, in all situations. on the contrary, in many cases it will cause additional problems, especially when it interferes with the provision of public services at local or regional level. what certainly works - and railway companies in a number of member states have proved this - is additional investment in comfort, punctuality, an attractive pricing policy and that of course also requires political will. i am therefore personally very pleased that we have succeeded in adopting a balanced proposal on the liberalization of rail passenger transport. we want to open up the market for international passenger transport, to make it more attractive without completely opening up domestic passenger transport. the opening of the market is accompanied by cabotage, but this can be somewhat restricted if the economic balance of public service contracts is jeopardized by this cabotage right. i know that a majority of my colleagues, although not a qualified majority, were in favour of this, of liberalising national passenger transport, but although that might not be a problem in some countries, i am convinced that it would certainly be in a number of other situations, if only because of the great differences in the density of the networks and their structure; a tailor-made approach by each member state is therefore appropriate. this directive, together with the public service regulation, will provide a solid legal framework to enable this tailor-made approach. as regards passenger rights, it is clear that we in this parliament, across all party lines, wanted to be a lot more ambitious and aimed at a high level of passenger rights for all rail passengers throughout europe. it is regrettable that this is not the case for urban and regional transport. it is also regrettable that long distance transport on domestic lines can remain exempt from the application of this regulation for up to 15 years, but what is certain is that within two years all passengers on international trains will be able to enjoy a number of basic rights and that some member states will be able to be more trendsetters by not making use of the long transitional period. that is what we should all be calling for here, the european mill is grinding slowly but surely. gradually we will strengthen and improve passenger rights. in view of the results of a regulation on passenger rights in the air transport sector, i would call on the commission to carry out the necessary evaluations relatively quickly and, if necessary, to take new initiatives to close loopholes so that this regulation does not turn out to be an empty box. finally, commissioner, i would ask you to ensure that the content of the regulation is communicated to all rail passengers in a timely and widespread manner so that they are fully aware of the rights conferred on them.
president, commissioners, the recent recall campaign by a toy manufacturer has clearly and rightly served as a wake-up call. it is now up to us to deal with this problem rationally and thoughtfully. if, after years of efforts to ensure a high level of consumer protection, including product safety, we are still sometimes confronted with situations where non-compliant goods are produced, imported and placed on the market, then this is of course not a pleasant situation, but perhaps we cannot avoid it completely. but despite this, the european citizens, the european consumers, can expect us to continue to make every effort to put a stop to this. the case which is the immediate cause of this debate concerns toys from china. i'd like to make a call anyway so we don't get stuck on that. not on china, because there are other unsafe goods coming into the market. we sometimes produce them ourselves. it is better to make good agreements than to start protectionist actions. we should not focus on toys alone, even though one in four products found to be defective is a toy. we must ensure that the safety of products in general is guaranteed. we do not need to devise yet another new approach, but we do need to close the gaps in the existing system. we are working on this with the proposals in the single market package for goods. i would like to make this clear to the people; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we always aim for a high level of consumer protection and this time it appears that this is indeed the case. the internal market and consumer protection are not contradictory issues, but are absolutely compatible and we must continue to pursue these paths. i have one question to put to the commission, madam president, we are calling - it is in our joint resolution - for an assessment to be made as to whether a voluntary safety label is appropriate in addition to the ce marking. i would like to ask the commissioners what their reaction is to this.
madam president, what is the lesson to be drawn from this mattel case? the first point is necessary, and it is a parenthesis, but it is important, and it has already been said. the successful conclusion of this business saga is partly due to the sense of responsibility of the company's managers, who took the necessary decisions: a massive withdrawal and effective communication. my second point is to congratulate commissioner kuneva, who has met our expectations perfectly: the efficient use of the rapex system, which could certainly be further refined, and the message of firmness she has sent to the chinese authorities. a third comment, which expresses frustration. in reality, the mattel case is almost a chronicle of a failure that has already been announced: the failure to supervise ce marked products in the union, in this case toys, but they are not the only ones concerned. in 2004, during the debate on the eco-design directive, i denounced, together with others who are here this morning - i see karin scheele, peter liese, claude turmes - the presence on our european market of other dangerous products bearing the ce mark. there are certainly interesting ideas in our joint resolution: the revision of existing directives, increased cooperation, in this case with china, more resources for customs services and national supervisory authorities. the two commissioners present stressed this point, and it is essential. i take this opportunity to regret the absence of a council official this morning, whose presence would have been essential. in conclusion, if europe wants to protect the safety and health of consumers, it must, of course, as it has done, hunt down and prosecute cheaters, but also ban the marketing of consumer products containing dangerous substances, such as cmrs and endocrine disruptors.
president, commissioner, mr commissioner, as chairman of the chinese delegation i would like to say to you that cooperation between the european commission and china is of course of the utmost importance and that we follow as closely as possible what the commission is doing there, but also inquire into what our chinese colleagues are doing in china. i can tell you that this week, somewhat by chance, a chinese delegation is present, because we have our interparliamentary meeting tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and one of the items on the agenda is precisely product safety and how we can work together better there. if the commissioner has any further suggestions on items to be included on the agenda - we have already received a note from the commission on this - we are of course very happy to ask for them, because it is obvious that cooperation between china and europe is of particular importance; i would point out that the commissioner has already made an effort to do so during the summer and that further follow-up is expected in october. the cooperation between our rapex system, where we exchange data with the chinese and the chinese authorities of aqsiq, has to be as smooth as possible. but it cannot be that we, the authorities, the public authorities, take responsibility for products. if we start checking every product, then producers might say, let them do it, we'll see what we put on the market. the responsibility must remain with the producer. this was also clear in the case of mattel; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products is not compromised. and we must ensure that at european and chinese level these checks are carried out as well as possible and that we can know what is going on by sampling.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a package of toys imported from china has been found to be unsafe. that requires cooperation with the chinese authorities. we need to work at the base, where it's happening. multinationals are not going free. they're going to invest there for cheap labor. i expect the commission to adopt a comprehensive, high-quality and safe product policy based on the following measures. i support what other members have said, namely that a strict revision of the legislation on ce marking should be made mandatory, with liability rules for importers and penalties for infringers. mattel has indicated that they made a mistake; i therefore expect the commission to give mattel a clean slate. an agreement should be made within the wto framework to prevent unsafe products from china or elsewhere, including for further export. more cross-border cooperation between market surveillance authorities and customs is needed. that requires political will, that requires financial resources. they're for work and food safety. why not product safety?
in writing. the liberalisation of the railways is not an end in itself, it must serve the users and efficiency. in international transport, liberalization is a matter of course, since no country should be able to close itself off from the other. in national transport it cannot be the purpose of liberalization to leave the profitable lines to competition while leaving the unprofitable lines to the public service without compensation. in this context, i look forward to the application of the recently adopted regulation on public passenger transport. the european parliament has been able to win the battle for passenger rights against the member states and the railways, which is a great success for the citizens of the eu. it is particularly in transit countries such as belgium that a distinction between international and national passengers would be incomprehensible and unfair. in this sense, the third railway package is a step in the right direction, although it is certainly not to be the last.
in writing. the report on the road map for renewable energy is a good one. it clearly indicates that the coming years are crucial and that a legislative framework under the co-decision procedure is necessary to increase the current 7% share of renewable energy in the energy mix to 20% by 2020. the report rightly highlights the enormous potential of offshore wind energy: a potential share of 15% of total eu energy demand by 2020, with the potential to create 368 000 jobs. the development of biofuels is rightly called into question, particularly as regards the need for sustainable production methods and the fair balance between food and energy production. the greens would like to see it put more forcefully and therefore call for a serious analysis of the impact of biofuels on the climate, the environment, the social fabric and food security. it is a pity that the report leaves the 10% target for biofuels unchanged. another shortcoming of the report is recital e, where the nuclear lobby proposes nuclear energy as a 'bridge technology'. the greens disagree and therefore tabled amendment no 2. overall, this is a good report and deserves our support.
president, ladies and gentlemen, do the south americans themselves still believe in an interregional agreement between the eu and mercosur? i think that's the question we should be asking ourselves. the mercosur countries are pursuing a two-track trade strategy. on the one hand, to develop mercosur further, but on the other, like brazil, to conclude as many bilateral trade agreements as possible in order to secure its own market position, if necessary at the expense of other mercosur members. it's like combining an argentine tango with a brazilian samba. and yet, as long as we on both sides, the eu and mercosur, continue to believe in the usefulness of broad cooperation between the two continents, there is hope, despite the pressure of us president bush to establish a free trade area of the americas. with 34 countries, the enthusiasm of the mercosur members is not very high. they are disappointed in the lack of support from the us during the recent severe economic crisis. europe is already mercosur's most important trading partner, but there is still a lot of growth potential between the two trade blocs. if we can now do something about the divisions among the mercosur countries, for example by cooperating in multilateral trade negotiations such as the wto, where the eu and mercosur often have common interests, then we may be a little closer to an interregional agreement again.
we know that we are only at the beginning of a process, mr president, commissioner, so i am anxiously awaiting the reactions of the stakeholders and the concrete actions you are planning for next year, but i think it is important that you put this on the political agenda to show that this is becoming a priority for the commission and for the european union in general. to create sustainable mobility, to achieve our commitments on climate management. i think one of the most important things is to create a tool that will allow good examples that already exist in many cities to be exchanged in such a way that we can learn from them. every city is different and every problem situation is different, but i think it is important to create a good mechanism and i wonder how you see it; how can we share all the good ideas that exist at the grassroots level in associations, in small towns and big cities, so that we can learn from them?
i would like to explain, mr president, why i voted against the duff report, even though the duff report is not a controversial report as such. i am opposed to the european federalist philosophy which underlies the report in any case. in short, i am against a european federal state and therefore i am automatically against european citizenship, which includes the right to vote and stand as a candidate for eu citizens in member states other than their own. i believe that the union must remain a community of national democracies, with the right to vote and stand as a candidate in any elections reserved for the citizens of the states concerned. it is indeed a sign of the evolution of the european union that european citizenship is being systematically confirmed and extended, including by making the charter of fundamental rights now binding.
i have of course not approved the gruber report on the legal migration policy plan for two main reasons. firstly, i do not think it would be wise to encourage a brain drain from the poorer countries towards europe now, even more than it is already the case. i think that no one benefits from this, especially the poorer countries. secondly, i am continually struck by the naivety with which immigration is seen in this parliament as a kind of solution to europe's undeniable demographic problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has an economic cost, among other problems. today, in our european capital, brussels, some 53% of the inhabitants are of what is known as non-belgian origin. by 2050, that's going to be 75%. we do not need a new mass immigration, but the exact opposite.
mr president, in the gruber report this parliament is once again taking the one-sided quantitative economic approach to the immigration problem. i strongly reject the view that only a new wave of immigration will guarantee europe's economic future and would point out that immigration is about much more than just figures and tables. the proposals in this report will only aggravate the already serious problems of integration. one must have read it to believe it. while some immigrants do not want to participate in the labour market and do not want to be re-educated, there is a desire to set up an information and management centre for migration in mali. it is undeniable that many so-called temporary workers go into the illegal business after their permits have expired, and this is already the case. experience in switzerland, for example, clearly shows that the family members of seasonal workers also continue to enter illegally. last but not least, more legal immigration of highly skilled people will undeniably lead to further brain drain from developing countries with all its consequences.
the report on the political priorities for combating illegal immigration which we have just adopted is certainly not the worst report that has ever been presented here and even contains some very interesting recommendations, but i still think that the report fails to mention the man and the horse in a clear way and that is why i did not approve it myself. the problem of immigration in europe is threatening to become the problem of the next century, is perhaps already the problem of the next century today, and illegal immigration is an important part of that. so we should have expected a much more coherent position, especially in the face of successive waves of regularization in the various european countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is actually quite simple and we should have been bold enough to formulate it. illegal immigration cannot be tolerated. illegal immigrants must be traced and returned to their countries of origin in a coordinated and humane manner. those who do not dare to say so, and therefore certainly do not dare to act, will cause enormous problems which will ultimately cost our prosperity and our civilization.
mr president, when you read the moreno sánchez report, you automatically remember the saying: gentle healers make stinking wounds. as my colleague mr vanhecke has already said, although some of the proposals in the report are certainly a step in the right direction, parliament is still generally taking a halfhearted approach, which is not good for an efficient and coherent european policy to combat illegal immigration. for example, parliament fails to make it clear that the regularizations introduced in many european countries are one of the main, if not the main, causes of illegal immigration because of the suction effect they create in the countries of origin. illegals should not be regulated, but they should be actively tracked down and expelled in a timely but humane manner. contrary to what this parliament insinuates, the unequivocal proclamation of this political message has nothing to do with so-called xenophobia. in addition to a coherent policy on expulsion, close checks at the external borders and readmission agreements, there should also be reception centres in the region of origin, but this too is rejected by this parliament. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i fully support this excellent report and would like to add three comments. one: we must dispel the illusion that an active policy of legal immigration will have the effect of suppressing illegal immigration into our countries. an active policy of legal immigration, by definition, will stem from our own needs, while illegal immigration corresponds to the needs of those - and they are currently tens of millions, especially in africa - who want to come to our country to escape from war, persecution, poverty, or simply the lack of prospects for themselves or their children. secondly, the control of the eu's external borders and the fight against illegal immigration channels will unfortunately remain one of our political priorities for many years to come, because in reality the industry of poverty has fallen into criminal hands. the fight against illegal immigration is therefore not "against" illegal immigrants: it is part of the fight against organised crime that we must win collectively. thirdly and lastly, we must of course also fight against poverty, and this must be done in parallel and without delay, and this must be done through joint development in africa.
the un security council yesterday unanimously agreed to deploy a 'multidimensional presence' in eastern chad and the north-east of the central african republic for one year. this will consist, on the one hand, of a civilian and police un mission, which we will call minurcar, following the un, and a military eu mission, eufor, which will support and secure it. this european security and defence mission will operate under chapter 7 of the un charter and that is particularly important because it means that it will be able to use all means to fulfil its mandate. it will therefore have a robust mandate, as this parliament has expressly requested. this increases the chances of success of the mission, but it also increases considerably its and our responsibility. we have repeatedly expressed in this parliament our concern about the situation in darfur and our concern about the spread of insecurity and instability in the surrounding areas and in the region as a whole. more than 1 million people have been forced to flee either within their own country or across borders. they are exposed to all kinds of hardship and violence, of which women and children are often the main victims. the situation also threatens the fragile peace agreements reached in both chad and the central african republic, as ordinary bandits, alongside the political rebels, are also seeing an opportunity to rob, abuse and murder civilians. the eufor mission will therefore be anything but simple. but before we talk about that, we must concern ourselves with the assembly of those troops, as mr gomes has pointed out, and not just the assembly of the troops but also their equipment. and for every member state, including my own, the moment of truth is thus approaching. the hour when, besides fine words and noble declarations, the bridge must be crossed with soldiers and equipment. that is also true of this parliament. we have rightly insisted on thorough information and have used our powers to give a documented and well-founded opinion. we were able to do so, in part, because we had a long exchange of views with general leaky last week. our advice is positive. it will be our task and responsibility to ensure that the mission can be launched as soon as possible and in the best conditions.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i am glad that we can today discuss and vote on a resolution on a subject which is too tacitly discussed for my liking, because, as we must constantly remind this house, the situation of the border populations of sudan, chad and the central african republic is simply intolerable. i do not forget, and i do not intend to ignore, that this is one of the many consequences of the genocide in darfur, which does not dare to speak its name. darfur, two and a half million refugees since 2003, 125,000 of them in chad. there are also several hundred thousand dead. as i speak, the humanitarian teams of the united nations and ngos have also had to change their camp 31 times to escape the violence, which has not prevented the arrest of several of their agents by the sudanese police, the massacre of 12 aid workers and the disappearance of five others. the resolution we are presenting today is clearly part of the objective of making an effective contribution to putting an end to the situation at the borders. this is unacceptable, but it is a relative figure in view of the scale of the catastrophe currently taking place in that part of the world. in this connection, i would like to point out that our responsibility cannot be limited to supporting or carrying out specific and limited interventions in the emergency of conflict situations. this responsibility requires action in the wider context of these conflicts. it also requires action up front, that is, doing everything possible to prevent such conflicts from occurring. the second point i want to make is the situation of humanitarian workers in the region. the changing methods of intervention by the armed forces and the role of humanitarian personnel in conflict situations are making the boundary between these two types of actors increasingly unclear. this confusion between military and humanitarian personnel is to the detriment of the continuation of the missions traditionally assigned to humanitarian personnel, and the very survival of humanitarian personnel is threatened, and with them the entire population that is supposed to benefit from these services. it is therefore absolutely essential that our force should not be involved in any way in the activities of the humanitarian workers in the region. i am pleased to see that this important consideration for the future of our development policies, here and elsewhere in the world, is reflected in the text before us today.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. today, that regime has begun a violent repression and our hearts go out to the burmese people. the european union must continue to protest vigorously against this, not only in words but also in deeds. if the regime persists in its repression, sanctions must be tightened and all european companies still operating in burma must be called upon, if not forced, to cease their activities there. the asean countries must also tighten their stance towards burma and india and china must use their influence on the regime to encourage it to engage seriously in dialogue with the burmese democratic opposition. the burmese regime not only oppresses the people politically but has plunged them into deep misery and poverty, even though the country has everything it needs to be prosperous. the mass demonstrations of the burmese people are proof enough that aung san suu kyi is not alone, but that she remains the bearer of the hopes of the vast majority of the burmese people. the burmese regime must immediately return to full freedom of movement and release all political prisoners, including those arrested today. finally, i would like to call on the european union to make full use of the instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights that is now at our disposal.
acting president of the council. the question of the division or partition of kosovo is not on the agenda or on the agenda of the troika at all.
acting president of the council. thank you very much, mr president, mr member of the house. the european union has not yet taken a decision on kazakhstan's candidacy for the osce chairmanship in 2009. the union considers that this candidacy underlines the need for kazakhstan to pursue reforms and to respect osce obligations and standards in all their dimensions. the council has repeatedly stated that any osce presidency must set an example of respect for the principles of the organization. in meetings with the political authorities of kazakhstan, the european union, the council and the commission have stressed that it is up to kazakhstan to demonstrate that it is ready and able to commit itself to fully complying with the obligations and standards of organisation in its three dimensions, namely the human dimension, the political-military dimension and the economic and environmental dimension.
- i'm the substitute author. thank you for your answer, mr minister. can i assume that you are implying that kazakhstan does not meet those conditions at the moment?
i am afraid that my opinion of this report is somewhat different from what i have heard in this chamber, because i consider it to be a strange report, at least for an institution which calls itself democratic, because it makes recommendations on the basis of a highly controversial directive which, in my view, runs counter to fundamental rights and freedoms and which, in a number of respects, is contrary to the fundamental principles of the rule of law. the truth is that genuine discrimination against minority groups in europe or genuine racism are - and fortunately are - very marginal phenomena which are already being adequately and rightly combated. what we are dealing with in this report is something quite different. in reality, this is yet another attempt to introduce muzzle-loading regulations to further stifle free speech, to create a climate of genuine progressive opinion terror, whereby in the end indigenous people are actually obliged to give priority to immigrants. this is the most discriminatory report ever written against indigenous people. in particular, i consider the reversal of the burden of proof in discrimination and legal proceedings, especially in the field of employment, to be absolutely reprehensible in a democratic state of law where everyone is presumed innocent until proven guilty. in short, this report is not about discrimination, it is about a kind of legalisation of political correctness.
the problem with a report like mrs buitenweg's is that it is based on pious principles and good intentions, but unfortunately it is far removed from reality. of course, discrimination on the basis of race or origin is reprehensible. the question is only whether this discrimination is as widespread as it is always intended to be. the latest annual report of the eumc (european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia) speaks of an increase in the phenomenon, while the eumc is not able to support this statement with concrete figures. the eumc is not even able to give a generally accepted definition of what discrimination is. all too often it is assumed that almost all the problems facing immigrants are caused by the so-called discrimination they are supposed to suffer. this discourse has disastrous consequences, because it excludes whole groups of the population from the concept of personal responsibility. the hugging policy and the victim culture have only made the problems worse and i therefore welcome the minority view expressed by koenraad dillen.
mr president, with this report, buitenweg, the european parliament is taking a very dangerous path and that is why i voted against it, together with my group. the combination of the right to bring proceedings against so-called equality bodies, the reversal of the burden of proof in court cases and even more prohibited grounds of discrimination will undoubtedly lead, in our view, to a witch hunt, a hunt for people with a different and critical opinion. because that's what it's about. europe wants to set up a new inquisition against anyone who refuses to accept the dogmas and the multicultural society. this has nothing to do with eliminating discrimination against minority groups, but with the legalisation of a certain political correctness. if we want to tackle real discrimination, we must also finally address the situation of women within the muslim community in europe, or put pressure on the applicant country turkey in connection with the open discrimination against religious minorities, but that does not fit the european parliament's image.
president. - apart from the previous speaker's reservations about some kind of new treaty for a european constitution, which is being pushed down our throats in a totally undemocratic way, the european presidency has apparently also set itself the main objective of achieving a breakthrough in the dossier of a common european immigration policy. the least that can be said about this is that such a policy at european level, decided in the pre-bedroom scenarios with particularly obscure decisionmaking by the commission and council, as we unfortunately already know, would be totally undemocratic. the problem of immigration affects our citizens personally and in their private environment, and to shift decision-making on this to a european level where virtually no one has a say is not only undemocratic, but also downright dangerous. the portuguese proposal to 'steer' illegal immigration as it is called through legal immigration is too stupid to be allowed to go unchecked. illegal immigration must be tackled by a policy of 'peek-a-boo', by a concerted policy of detection and expulsion, by close checks at the external borders and by european detention and reception centres in the countries, or at least the continent of origin. as for the so-called absolute necessity of legal immigration, i would point out that we already have some 20 to 25 million unemployed in europe, including millions of unemployed immigrants with all the consequences of that. a new wave of legal immigration with all its attendant so-called family reunification will only increase the particularly dramatic problems of integration and assimilation exponentially. and if it were really only the highly educated - which i dispute - then we would be organising a brain drain from the poor countries which is simply outrageous. or is the aim - the council will have to say - to keep countries poor and underdeveloped?
first of all, mr president, i should like to express my doubts about the timing of the resolution we are discussing. it is true that the european council in june asked parliament to submit a draft on the future composition of parliament, but now we find that the whole proposal is based on the reform treaty, a text which has not even been ratified yet, let alone entered into force. in other words, we are putting the cart before the horse. it's not the first time this has happened, by the way, and it's starting to get really shocking. i am not speaking here as the spokesman for the its group, but as the representative of a smaller member state. the question is no longer whether belgium will be split up and flanders will become an independent state. the question is when it will happen. but this aside. i think that the principle of degressive proportionality advocated in this report is the most workable and also the most just starting point, if one at least considers that the smaller member states and their representatives should be able to continue to play a significant role in this parliament. i am in favour of a broad interpretation of this principle of degressive proportionality and therefore intend to support the amendment in mr bonde's case. i think it is in the interest of the european union that the smaller member states are represented in the european parliament in the best possible way. if not, then some of the support for the european institutions among the people will disappear.
mr president, it has been said here many times, but ultimately this debate is about the credibility of parliament. the question is whether parliament is able to fulfil the task entrusted to it of submitting a proposal by a large majority, so that it is difficult for the council to dismiss this proposal. the merit of the lamassoure/severin report is that it presents a pragmatic proposal which meets all the requirements of the treaty. there are not four alternatives, there are actually only two alternatives, namely the lamassoure/severin report or the nice report. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. now i do not understand some of the amendments tabled. it is clear that the fourth amendment does indeed strongly defend the smaller countries, but is actually a caricature of what proportionality should be. but i also do not understand the amendment which was tabled mainly on the basis of german incentives, because it does not take account of the position of the smaller countries, while it asks that they should give greater opportunities to the large member states in the council. or should i understand that this is a vicious way of returning to nice and returning germany to 99 seats? if so, i think that is very undermining for this parliament. i hope that tomorrow parliament will see that its credibility is at stake, and that it can only maintain it by supporting the lamassoure/severin report by a large majority, because that is the only realistic amendment.
mr president, when we were preparing this resolution, we said to ourselves 'no politics, only humanitarianism'. because today it is unbearable that in a ghetto under the open sky a people is dying slowly, tracked by cameras from all over the world, a people is being bled to death, without the right to develop, without the right to move freely, to educate its children, but a people whose survival is very expensive and who, above all, should not slap us in the hands, because that would stain and our democracies would not tolerate it. the european union will have spent more than 300 million euros this year to prevent this tragedy. it is too little for the palestinians to live on, but it is ten times, a hundred times too much, because if all the international obligations, the fourth geneva convention and human rights were respected, we would not be here. shame on the ghetto! shame on us europeans who knew how to supply berlin when the people of berlin were under siege! we are ashamed of ourselves, who greeted the fall of the wall in germany with tears of joy, but who are now prisoners, accomplices of other walls and other ghettos! stop the closure! but today, humanitarianism cannot be ignored by politics. the israeli government notified on 24 september an order to confiscate 1,100 dunums of land from four arab villages between jerusalem and jericho for the construction of a road which will permanently cut the west bank in two. it's an old israeli plan from 2004 that europe, and even the united states, have always rejected. today, on the eve of the washington international meeting, it is a real bombshell. with gaza trapped and the west bank cut in half, how can we still dream of two states living side by side in peace? on 8 february 2005, sharon said in sharm el sheikh: "we have the opportunity to start a new era. for the first time in a long time, there is hope in our region for a better future for our children and grandchildren. "it's an extremely fragile opportunity that extremists want to break. if this route, and many others, are found, the extremists will have won. architects and geographers are now using weapons more evil than bombs. they surround palestine with walls and roads that crush any dream of a viable state. (applause) i would like to thank
- i'm the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is often the case that the reports of the committee on budgetary control, which is the european parliament's anti-fraud committee, do not bring good news. we are talking about weaknesses, irregularities, fraud, and sometimes even fraud. i am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, to be able to bring you a success story today, to bring you a positive story, a story that shows how cooperation between the european commission, the european parliament and the member states can solve problems. what's the context? cigarette smuggling was discovered in the early 1990s as a mega-fraud. hundreds of millions of ecu - we were still talking about ecus and not euros - disappeared into the pockets of criminals at the expense of the budgets of the european union and the member states. as early as 1994, the then uclaf - the predecessor of olaf - set up a cigarette task force. in 1996 and 1997, a european parliament committee of inquiry - the first committee of inquiry to be set up under the provisions of the maastricht treaty - investigated the whole of transit fraud. the committee of inquiry found that the transit control system was an archaic system. the commission also found that the exporting producer had not provided any evidence that the exporting producer had been unable to obtain the necessary information from the exporting producer. the document had to be returned to the customs office of importation. there were a lot of problems with that. those papers came back much later, sometimes three, four months. there was the issue of forged papers. there was also the problem of counterfeit stamps. one of the main recommendations of the committee was to replace this archaic system based on paper and stamps with a computer system. this ncts system was gradually introduced and is now operational in all member states and helps customs services to detect in real time whether goods are illegally escaping customs supervision. so this is a huge breakthrough. all this does not, of course, exclude the possibility of false declarations still being made, and we therefore ask the commission to set up a system to prevent the false declaration of goods. we also ask that olaf have direct access to this computerised system. as i said, the committee of inquiry was mainly concerned with the problem of cigarettes. so cigarettes were being transported in transit across the territory from one customs post to another, but very often it was these goods, these cigarettes, that ended up on the black market. it was also very common for those goods to be smuggled back into the union. this caused immense problems, sometimes even violence. in italy, for example, two members of the guardia di finanza were even killed. the whole investigation also revealed that some tobacco manufacturers were colluding with the smugglers and on the basis of these indications the commission, together with a number of member states, brought a case against philip morris in the courts of new york. as time went on, it became clear that philip morris would have a particularly difficult time winning that lawsuit, and in 2004 a deal was struck with philip morris. in exchange for $1.25 billion, to be spread over a period of 12 years, the continuation of the trial in new york court was waived. but the second part of the philip morris agreement was actually perhaps even more important. it contained provisions on cooperation between philip morris and the european union in relation to the tracing and tracing of cigarettes. if shipments of cigarettes were found by the customs authorities and the provisions of this agreement were not followed, philip morris undertook to pay the customs duties evaded immediately. and that can go up to a million and a half euros per container of cigarettes. i repeat, this is a success story. it shows how parliament and the commission can work together. but there are also some criticisms. the commission and the member states will share the $1.25 billion. only 9.7% goes to the commission and the lion's share goes to the member states. i think that is unfair, especially since olaf and the commission are doing the lion's share of the work. a second point of criticism. in the spirit of the agreement, this money was to be used for the fight against fraud. the commission has done its job. she donated some of that money to the herculus ii program. the member states, however, simply let it circulate in their national treasuries and should actually use that money to equip their investigative services, for example the customs services, better and to fight this kind of fraud more vigorously. again, mr president, this is a success story that could perhaps be used for other products. i'm thinking about alcohol. i am thinking of some agricultural products. and i hope that with this report i have put a positive note on the important work that the commission, mr kallas and our parliament are doing in the fight against fraud.
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr el khadraoui, the european parliament has played an important political role and helped us to sign the first aviation agreement between europe and the united states on 30 april in washington. by supporting the agreement on 14 march, even before the transport council had taken a decision, parliament played a decisive role in modernising the framework for transatlantic aviation and in offering new opportunities to european citizens. the agreement will come into force next march and european and american airlines are in the starting blocks to offer new transatlantic routes. the joint committee, which is responsible for administering the agreement, met in june. it will meet again in november to ensure smooth implementation and to begin work on important issues such as competition and safety. in formally expressing your opinion on the agreement today, you have made a number of key points, which i fully share. you stress the importance of a second stage agreement to advance access to the us market, in particular to allow european investment in the us. you stress the importance of convergence of our standards, particularly in the field of security, in order to achieve one-stop security. you stress the importance of the environmental dimension and, in particular, of co2 emissions trading. finally, you stress the importance of informing and consulting the european parliament. your political priorities are my political priorities. i welcome the agreement between our two institutions on matters which are politically sensitive both in europe and in the united states. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament, in its continuous dialogue with the us congress and administration, is making the voices of europeans heard in the united states. we're gonna need to work together tirelessly on the cases that are tough with washington. the assembly of the international civil aviation organization in montreal in september was a disappointment. as you know, the european union and its european neighbours, 42 states, had to make a reservation on the co2 emissions trading resolution because we found ourselves in opposition to the united states and the rest of the world. the house of representatives also passed an amendment to restrict the possibilities of foreign control of american airlines. although this amendment has not been voted on by the senate at this stage, it casts a shadow over the course of the negotiations for a second stage agreement, which will begin next spring. the european parliament has raised this issue with congress and the administration, as i have, and we must continue to mobilise our energies to avoid a move that does not go in the direction of a standardisation of the aviation sector. but if these events show the difficulties to be overcome, we must not forget the main point. we now have a solid working basis between europeans and americans to deal as equals. that wasn't the case six months ago. this is the result of four years of work. of course, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, i assure you of my full availability to fulfil the political objectives of both the european parliament and the council, and i congratulate you on the european unity on this matter, on the union of europeans.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's air transport sector is not left behind. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the european union's air transport sector is not left behind. at the same time, we know that this is only an intermediate stage and that there is still a lot of work to be done to achieve the more or less integrated transatlantic aviation market we have in mind. some colleagues believe that we have already made too many concessions to the americans in this first phase. the spirit of negotiation would have disappeared, particularly since us airlines already have de facto the right to cabotage flights from one member state to another, something we cannot do on us territory. both parties are given what we call fifth freedom rights, which allows american airlines to fly through europe to africa or asia. the reverse is also possible, but less interesting because of the geographical location of the usa. in addition, from march next year the restrictions still in place on access to certain airports - think of heathrow - which today only two american airlines are allowed to use will be lifted. so there is no real balance in a sense, but on the other hand, commissioner, the agreement is clearly a step forward and an improvement on the present situation. first, the agreement puts an end to the legal uncertainty that arose following the judgments of the court of justice in 2002 which found that the existing bilateral open skies agreements contained illegal elements that needed to be amended. secondly, consumers will feel the difference. whereas until now only national or american airlines could fly to the united states from the member states, in future any european airline will be able to fly from any point in europe to any point in the united states and possibly also to fly through to mexico or south america, for example. now, this no doubt means more choice for the consumer and perhaps lower prices as well. thirdly, the establishment of the joint committee - to which you also referred, commissioner - with representatives of both sides creates an institution which will discuss issues relating to the agreement, but also matters relating to regulations in the social field, in the field of the environment, in the field of safety, etc. so it is a tool that can increase mutual trust and understanding. this is very important because, of course, in parallel with the opening up of the transatlantic market, it is essential that the regulations gradually become equivalent and harmonized and that this be understood at a high level. as the authorities get along better and the benefits of close cooperation become more apparent, the willingness on the american side to make new concessions on market access in the united states itself may also increase. there are, after all, a number of outstanding issues - you have already referred to them. i am talking about cabotage, the right of establishment for european companies, rules on control and ownership, all kinds of other restrictions that still exist. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what are we trying to accomplish here? what are our priorities? how can we convince the americans to take new steps? what concessions can be made without being disadvantaged? i do not need to tell you, commissioner, that the context is very difficult. next year, there's a presidential election. there is a general suspicion in the united states, even in congress, of giving away strategic industries like aviation to third parties. there is also a fear among american unions that foreign intervention could lose its grip on the sector, especially because it could be successful and because it is assumed that european companies are better organized and can easily take over parts of that market. we have, of course, the european elections. then there are the difficulties that already exist today. you refer to the attempt by our colleague, mr oberstar, to reinterpret certain elements of the agreement. but, having said that, as rapporteur and as parliament we are going to give the green light this afternoon. we are going to vote in favour with full conviction. we shall of course be following the preparations very closely. we hope to be very closely involved in this, as we have been in the past. we're counting on it.
i would like to congratulate mr jensen on his excellent report. i'm not doing this for nothing. i'm doing it for a reason. she has produced an excellent and very balanced report. it is clear that the two themes mentioned are both of particular importance and will also require a lot of follow-up work by the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of air transport. the spectacular growth will create problems. that's clear by now. and they cannot be solved by building new airports here and there. in the areas where it would be most needed, it will also be the most difficult or even impossible because of the density of the population and also because of the opposition of the local inhabitants. the first priority is therefore to optimise current capacity. there are many ways to do this, but an integrated approach is absolutely necessary. we need a multi-track policy where we work together at all levels. it is about infrastructure, for example, connecting high-speed lines, good connections between cities and airports. it's about technology. you have already referred to cesar, to functional air blocks, to the unified airspace, but also to quieter aircraft which enable local people to tolerate more aircraft. it's not easy. but all of that together is extremely important. the idea of mapping everything and drawing up a master plan for airport capacity by 2009 is an important step forward. we are counting on the commission to make this work. the first steps in the liberalization of groundhandling services, which has been under way for many years, have not been fully appreciated. it is clear that prices have fallen and that airlines have benefited from this. on the other hand, the effects on the workers are clearly problematic. throughout europe, unions are complaining about lower wages, worse working conditions and greater job insecurity. you know that every seven years there is a public tender, the land dealers involved can be replaced by others, but there is no guarantee that the staff will be taken over. trade unions tell us that wages would have fallen by an average of 20%. the number of accidents at work would also have increased. these are matters we should take a closer look at. i therefore think that a new study is needed, not only to work with more recent figures but also to look at the quantity and quality of employment. in short, commissioner, these are two fascinating topics which we shall be dealing with often in the years to come. i think this report is a good basis for further work.
madam president, we have no rollcall votes for the other reports. could we start by voting on the reports which do not call for a rollcall vote, please, to move the session forward?
i am not going to repeat yesterday's debate. i have already explained that for us this lamassoure report is really a matter of putting the cart before the horse, since we do not yet have a valid transitional agreement, a new agreement. the problem with this report is that it again unleashes a typical loch ness monster of the eurofederalists, namely the spectre of transnational lists on the basis of which they would like to elect a part of the european parliament. i still believe that we are here representing our electors in the member states, our peoples in the member states, and not just abstract citizens in the european union.
madam president, i said that this debate was of major importance because what is at stake here and today is our vision for european agriculture tomorrow and the need to move from intensive agriculture, which is obviously too polluting, to sustainable agriculture, which respects biodiversity. europe must rise to this challenge because, in the face of the accumulation of scandals and the health risks involved, public opinion is now very unfavourable to the use of pesticides, because a majority of farmers themselves want the union to help them change their practices and no longer want to have to choose between their health and better profitability, because, also, beekeepers throughout europe are calling for strict legislation not allowing any marketing of pesticides without a relevant assessment. it is therefore essential that the ambitious vote by the committee on the environment on the three reports by mrs breyer, mrs klass and mrs belohorská be confirmed tomorrow. we must confirm the priority given to the health and environment aspect, such as specific measures targeting the most vulnerable populations, the application of the precautionary principle also to the most dangerous substances, confirm that the use of non-chemical alternatives will be encouraged, that the ban on aerial spraying will now be the rule, in short, translate into concrete actions the concerns of the europeans who have been numerous - and mrs isler-béguin also reminded us of this - to write to us to demand a non-doped agriculture for tomorrow.
the commission has already announced that it will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides. given the major impact on the quality of food, public health, the environment and the viability of our agriculture - all of which are areas of concern - not only our rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, but also our whole group, have devoted a great deal of time to this package. i would like to make four points in particular. firstly, a further reduction in pesticide use is desirable; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the environment. we do want to reduce the actual impact, based on a scientific evaluation of the risk. secondly, our reasoning is analogous to that of the spray-free zones around watercourses. here too we are in favour of a risk-based approach and we believe that the member states are better placed than we are to make responsible choices, guided by criteria such as those laid down in the water framework directive. thirdly, i wonder why this parliament, which is in favour of an internal market with a high level of protection for consumers, health and the environment, would oppose a first step towards harmonization in this area. we prefer the idea of zones with internal mutual recognition proposed by the commission and would also like to see voluntary inter-zonal mutual recognition. finally, mr president, we oppose the generalized neighbour information proposed by the rapporteur, mr breyer. for a highly regulated activity, that information is not only unnecessary, but also leads to unnecessary fear and frustration. it can't be the intention to go into some kind of private enforcement. that is a society we do not want, that we do not support.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, passenger cars are responsible for 12% of all co2 emissions. we all know that. it is clear that this sector will have to make a serious effort to achieve the agreed 2020 standards. it is also clear that we must be ambitious and set the bar high. it is also clear that the car manufacturers will not be able to do this alone, that an integrated approach is needed, that they should not be left to do it alone. so there must be accompanying measures. better air conditioning, better tires, better roads and a different driving style for drivers - for all of us. the sector deserves to be supported by the government, because there are a lot of people working in the automotive industry - directly or indirectly. first appeal to national governments to urgently adjust their car taxation so that consumers switch to environmentally friendly cars as if by themselves. a second appeal to you, commissioner, to the commission, to europe and a call to launch an evaluation of the 2009 multiannual budget to invest even more research money in new research technologies for low-carbon cars. i know you recently announced an ambitious programme: 500 million euros to invest in hydrogen technology. that's great, of course, but that's the medium term. of course, short-term solutions must also be found for the new engine technology. i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen - whether it is 2012 or a little later - that the smart car manufacturers will reach the 120 gram target much sooner than expected. simply put - and i don't want to be naive - because the consumer demands it, because the market demands it. in that sense, the context has changed completely from a few years ago. that is why it is important - and i am finishing - that we approve mr callanan's compromise proposals on marketing and advertising, because they are transparent. it is a matter of clear information for the consumer.
president, the constitution is dead, long live the constitution! how else can one describe what happened in lisbon? we all agree that this treaty of reform is a poorly-copy of the constitution rejected by the french and the dutch. it is a clone which, as valéry giscard d'estaing said, is even more illegible than the original. because referendums, we are told, must be avoided at all costs. there is one major difference from 2005. this time the french, the dutch and the other european peoples will not have a chance to speak. the european commissioner, margot wallström, who is always talking about closing the gap between europe and the citizens, illustrates this contempt for democracy. it urges the national parliaments to ratify this text as soon as possible. however, genuine respect for democracy requires that citizens in all european member states have a say in the treaty, because in many ways this text undermines the sovereignty of the national states even more than it already does. that we do not complain tomorrow if this fear of the citizens turns against the official europe again in the next european elections.
i am pleased to note that the european parliament has been able to take part in the negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy, and that the council has been able to reach a decision on the reform of the common agricultural policy, and that the council has been able to take part in the negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy. the union will now be better equipped to give the answers that people expect from it, both internally and externally. in this last respect, i would like to congratulate the presidency on its agenda-setting. by having your summit, mr president-in-office, not only decide on the treaty, but also have it discuss the problems of our generation, in particular globalisation, you have sent an important signal. it is not the institutions - the institutional umbilical stars - that are at issue, but the policies they pursue. this brings me to a question to you, mr president of the commission. do you think it is possible to pursue a truly decisive policy in the period between now and the final ratification of the convention? or are you afraid that ratification will lead to a situation where you will have to go through the motions and limit yourself to the so-called precautionary measures? in other words, can the europe of the concrete projects continue in 2008? finally, two questions to the council. mr president-in-office, have you asked the heads of government to make a personal political commitment to bring ratification to a successful conclusion in their countries? i sure hope so. and secondly, when will there be a coordinated text of these conventions? for a treaty which also aims at transparency and simplification must be readable for the sake of respect for the people. i thank the president and the chairmen in advance for their answers to my questions.
in writing. this afternoon, the european parliament delivered a broad message that responds to citizens' concerns about less dependence on pesticides, sustainable agriculture and the health of farmers and other users. a step forward: the health protection aspect, which was totally absent from the 1991 regulation, is now clearly affirmed through the recognition of the principle of substitution (aimed, as in reach, at encouraging less or no chemical alternatives), the priority given to the protection of the most vulnerable populations and the prohibition in principle of aerial spraying. it was essential to fill a legal gap concerning the use phase by professionals and individuals. this will be done with the framework directive which takes account of the new habits, the garden fashion: pesticides have entered our gardens and our homes! i am very sorry, however, that the klass report rejects the commission's new approach, the so-called integrated approach, which consists in allowing the use of all available agricultural techniques, giving priority to those which are environmentally friendly. i insist and i sign: integrated production is the common sense applied to agriculture in the 21st century!
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am replacing mrs bárbara dührkop, who is unable to attend. the libe committee had identified three main priorities for the 2008 budget. the first of these priorities was to strengthen the operational resources available to the frontex agency, which, as you know, is responsible for coordinating cooperation at the external borders of the union. the objective in this area has been achieved: if parliament follows our lead, frontex will receive an additional 30 million in operational appropriations, more than double the 2007 allocation. the second priority was the requirement for transparency in the management of the computerized entry control systems on european territory. the commission has therefore set aside appropriations for both the schengen information systems sis i and sis ii and the visa information system, or vis for short. these appropriations will be released only when we have, where appropriate, the appropriate legal bases and, in any event, information on the calls for tenders and contracts. and finally, the third priority of our committee concerns the european return fund. all the appropriations relating to this subject have been placed in reserve and will be released only after the council and parliament have adopted the directive on common standards and procedures for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. the council must know that there are no directives, no leaflets. it's as simple as that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the alde group's speaker, i would first of all like to express my positive appreciation for the work done by our colleague, the general rapporteur, kyösti virrankoski, and in particular to tell him that we fully support the strategy he has developed with the agreement of the committee on budgets with regard to galileo. europe needs galileo! we want the funding for galileo to be community-wide and we want the funds to be guaranteed without prejudice to other priorities. i would also like to thank our rapporteur general for including in the list of pilot projects some of the projects which were most important to us, and in particular the rapid alert system in the event of kidnapping or disappearance of children. a word about mr itälä's report, which unfortunately is not in the chamber. i welcome the initiatives taken to strengthen the resources available to the regional media to promote community initiatives among the citizens. i believe that regional and local media can have a much greater impact than some centralized and bureaucratized initiatives. but i must say that there is one initiative in mr itälä's report which i do not like very much. this is an increase of eur 1 000 per month in the secretariat appropriations for each member. i do not like this initiative, which is the result of an agreement between two political groups, which happens to be the two largest, and which comes just a year before the european elections. i regard this as a disguised subsidy to the re-election of a number of our colleagues and i shall vote against this provision.
mr president, i am a councillor in a belgian municipality with 13 000 inhabitants. the budget of the small municipality is not approved by the local authority if there is no staffing plan annex detailed budget. an increase in the number of civil servants by 16% over a few years, as in the eu, would never be allowed. nor an increase in pension costs of more than 10% in one year. the commissioner refers to enlargement, but despite that enlargement we have limited the number of members. my question is: does the commissioner not think it is high time to consider a staff strike, despite the possibility of further enlargement?
vice-president of the commission. we are taking this very seriously, and there will definitely be proposals. we are discussing these issues. first of all, it must also be considered that all these administrative and control functions have also been some kind of consequence of development in the commission, where the managerial functions have been evaluated or assessed as a much more important function. also, their supportive systems have been enhanced. we are discussing at this moment how to proceed, and definitely before a new call for cuts in our posts comes we will be ready with an adequate project. we are currently discussing all these overheads and parallel functions, and inside the commission there are, of course, different views about this. it is no big surprise that some horizontal services want to have more rationalised services, while other services present arguments in favour of the existing system. so we are having a debate, but i can assure you that there will be a clear next step in this screening exercise.
vice-president of the commission. i am sorry that i cannot answer in finnish immediately, but we can have further discussions in finnish. i am a little afraid of not using the right terminology, which must be so exact in the european union. like the council, the commission has concluded an agreement with its staff trade unions, putting a certain amount of human resources at their disposal. in the case of the commission, on the basis of the resources agreement of 2001 and annual resources protocols, 12 so-called secondment posts are granted to the trade unions on a permanent basis out of a total of more than 23 000 posts at the commission. such secondments to trade unions, on the basis of their representativity, have been allowed since 1989. furthermore, a very limited number of posts are granted on a flexible basis, in particular in order to account for changing majorities after elections. the staff thus put at the disposal of the trade unions continue to be paid a salary from the eu budget as commission staff. in addition, the trade unions receive a budget which allows them to recruit up to nine contractual agents from function group ii (secretaries).
vice-president of the commission. i can certainly answer that on the basis of what i know. there are 12 seconded experts in the commission's trade union. in addition, there are 19 posts in the staff committees, which are separate bodies. they can hire nine secretaries. what you said about the strikes is partly true. it is true that the commission has reached a negotiated solution whereby during a strike it is possible to pay part of the salary but not the full salary. i've always thought it was a great thing that people who are on strike are paid half their salary.
vice-president of the commission. the budget for the trade unions is approximately eur 500 000 per year, which is given from the community budget.
member of the commission. since the beginning of its current term and up to the end of september 2007, the commission has adopted 21 decisions imposing fines on companies that have infringed the anti-trust rules. the total fines imposed during that period amount to just over eur 5.2 billion, 95% of which has been imposed on cartel participants. however, it should be borne in mind that such fines become part of the european budget only once they are final: that is, if no appeal has been lodged by the undertaking on which a fine has been imposed or when all possible appeals have been rejected by the european courts. as companies frequently challenge the validity of the commission decisions imposing fines, a large part of the amount mentioned above is not final, so to speak. the possible use of the proceeds of fines for additional activities, as suggested by the honourable member, is prevented by legal constraints. such use would run counter to the budgetary principle of universality as set out in articles 17 to 20 of the current financial regulation. according to that principle, total revenue covers total expenditure without any specific link between a given item of revenue and a given item of expenditure. the basic objective of anti-trust fines as laid out in the preamble to the 2006 guidelines on the method of setting fines is to ensure deterrence, in other words to discourage companies from behaving illegally. in time it is to be hoped that the levels of abuse, and hence the number and volume of fines imposed, will decrease as complying levels increase and we are still doing our job properly.
thank you, commissioner, for this very interesting information. what else i 'd like to know about you ? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. am i getting this right? secondly, you tell me that - only if it is final - the money also belongs to the eu budget. can you give an estimate of how much of this large sum of five billion euros can be considered final?
member of the commission. we are not the only ones who have taken up the fight against cartels. the national competition authorities have too, and i am aware that all the 27 national competition authorities are involved in this struggle with us. we are discussing this within the european competition network. i am aware also that there is indeed a one-line policy in this case, so your example is absolutely a domestic issue and should be dealt with by the national competition authority. so there could be lots of reasons behind a rise in the level of food prices. it need not necessarily be a cartel, though you never can be sure that it is not. i therefore advise the member of parliament to take the initiative to address their national competition authority in this case.
member of the commission. the commission approved the merger of gaz de france (gdf) and the suez group in november 2006, subject to commitments by the parties, which allowed the commission to conclude that the merger would not significantly impede competition. the commitments entered into by the merging parties include, most notably, the divesture of suez shares in distrigas, the belgian gas incumbent, which has, as you are aware, also entered the french market, the divesture of gdf shares in the alternative belgian gas and electricity provider spe and the abandonment of any control, by law or de facto, suez has over the belgian gas transmission network operator fluxys. while gdf suez is allowed to remain a shareholder of fluxys, specific arrangements will guarantee that the latter is managed in an independent way, and this outcome is entirely consistent with the policy objectives pursued by the commission regarding the liberalisation of the energy markets in europe, in particular the package of proposals of september 2007. the commission decision on the merger provides that the parties must proceed with the divesture of their ownership, including a partial divesture of participation in fluxys, and with the other commitments, including those relating to fluxys governance, within a certain divesture period. the parties have to fully comply with the commitments in order to legally implement the merger. in the mean time, the parties have to respect certain obligations, which the commission will oversee with the assistance of the monitoring trustees.
member of the commission. the answer to both questions is "yes".
member of the commission. the commission will analyse the planned subsidy to volvo cars in ghent directly on the basis of the ec treaty, since the matter exceeds the eur 1 million ceiling laid down in the specific block exemption regulation on training aid. article 87 of the treaty provides that aid to facilitate the development of certain economic activities, and which does not unduly distort competition, may be considered compatible with the common market. training aid can be permitted when it creates incentives for activities which will increase the pool of skilled workers in the european union and which would not otherwise be undertaken. that is the case where the training goes beyond what is normally done in the sector concerned; for instance, because more workers are trained or because the training is more extensive. that was the situation, for instance, in the recent fiat case. on the other hand, aid cannot be authorised for training that is an accessory for the good operation of the firm concerned and that would therefore be carried out even without aid. for instance, when a car assembly plant wants to produce a new model, workers have to be trained on the new techniques and new working methods to be adopted. subsidising this type of training simply relieves the company from a cost it would normally bear. accordingly, the commission has in the recent past partially prohibited aid in favour of several assembly plants and you are certainly aware of general motors in belgium and ford genk. the proposed eight measures for volvo cars ghent relate to the introduction of a new production platform. the commission cannot, at this stage, exclude that the training concerned would take place in any case and therefore would not contribute to increasing the pool of skilled workers in the eu. therefore, the commission has decided to open a formal investigation that is without prejudice to the final decision in the case. we need more time to find out what it is all about. the belgian authorities, the beneficiary, as well as third parties, will have the opportunity to comment and to submit information before a final decision is taken.
thank you, commissioner, for your answer. and by the way, congratulations on your victory over microsoft. what i was going to say. i understand that the case is still pending. i am right in thinking that even in the new interpretation of the state aid rules for training there will still be sufficient scope for the social relevance of training which ensures that, if training gives workers more opportunities on the global labour market, it is training aid which is not seen as an unheard-of interference in competition.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to begin by congratulating and thanking the rapporteur, mr florenz. i think he, and other colleagues here, remember from the very first day of my hearing in the european parliament, which he chaired by the way, that i have made a very firm commitment: i would like to see europe free of tobacco. i think that, slowly and gradually, we are getting there. i would like to thank mr florenz for the work and his dedication and the commitment he has to this cause. also, on a personal note, mr president, if you will allow me, i would like to wish mr florenz a happy birthday. i understand that yesterday was his birthday. i will not mention the age as i do not want to create an interinstitutional problem, but i would like to wish him many happy returns. i would like to say that we see a trend and significant improvement in the area of smoke-free environments in the european union, as compared to a situation three years ago where we only had ireland and, i think, italy which had just introduced these bans. now we have a much larger number of states that have adopted these more comprehensive bans, even some with a few exceptions: i shall come to that in a minute. but i believe that we need a joint effort to achieve this – the commission, member states and, most importantly, the european parliament. i shall say that parliament’s contribution to the tobacco directive was of vital importance and i would like to interpret today’s report as support for smoke-free environment policies. i am also very happy that the report takes a very positive constructive approach to the commission’s green paper, in particular on supporting the commission’s view that only a full smoking ban can adequately protect the health of citizens and workers. we have to be frank about that. first of all, a comprehensive smoking ban protects from passive smoking, it is a disincentive for people, especially young people, to begin smoking, it is an incentive for many people to quit. it creates, and this is an important factor, a level playing field among the various operators, especially in the entertainment industry, because the exceptions, in order to be effective, have to provide for separate rooms, sealed, negative pressure, separate ventilation systems – all this creates a certain cost that not all operators can meet. it does create a better level playing field and, also, it is easier to enforce when there are no exceptions. we have evidence from the european union, but also from other jurisdictions which have introduced these bans before us, that there has been no negative effect on the hospitality sector. actually, in many cases the revenues went up. now, for me, what is important is a result. that is what we are trying to achieve. the procedure through which we achieve it is not very important for me, whether it is european legislation, national legislation or regional legislation in some cases, what we need to do is achieve the target. i am ready, and i would be willing to accept a step-by-step approach, provided that at the end the target, and not far away, should be an introduction of a comprehensive ban. where are we today? i would like to mention that. we already have total bans in ireland and the united kingdom – the whole of the united kingdom. we have sweden, italy, malta, lithuania, estonia and finland which have already introduced quite thorough smoking bans even with exceptions on the special sealed-off rooms as i said earlier, with separate ventilation systems. france followed this two-step approach, so as of next year will have a similar situation. then we have the same restrictions, but with more exceptions, when it comes to hospitality venues for countries like belgium, spain and the netherlands. we have also proceeded in countries like germany and austria, where initiatives are under way already to strengthen existing smoke-free regulations. we have had a green paper as you know. we had a consultation, a debate in the council and now with the contribution from the european parliament i am planning to take all these and then decide what will be the next step at european level and what action should be taken. we also have commitments under the international obligation of the framework convention on tobacco control – all these will be brought together to decide what the next steps should be. i will go to another point which is included in the report, the tobacco products directive, and i think that is a very important issue. we will produce a second report on the implementation of this directive later this year and it will analyse the state of implementation of the directive and identify areas that warrant future amendments. it will discuss and will be inspired by the report. several issues which feature in today’s report will be included in ours, for example those on the regulation of tobacco ingredients, labelling requirements for tobacco products and products and manufacturers’ liability. i would like to mention two points. one is the issue of the pictorial warnings. as you know, we have created a databank with different photographs and pictures that can be used as pictorial warnings, but i have to admit that it is very disappointing that very few member states have actually taken advantage of that. i really regret that. to give you an example, i am just going through my notes, we have now only belgium which has introduced them. romania will do it from next year and then we have the united kingdom also later next year. i have commitments from the finnish and latvian governments that they plan to introduce these in the near future and that was after many calls and urging member states to introduce them. we have many countries outside the european union, like switzerland and new zealand, which signed licence agreements with us so that they can use our pictures and our suggestions so, for me, the situation in the european union is very disappointing and therefore we are very seriously contemplating actually amending the relevant directive and creating a mandatory obligation to use the pictorial warnings. i also find very interesting the parliament proposal to have these on both sides of the package. this is something that we will study. finally, the application of the implementation of the tobacco advertising ban is now everywhere. we had problems with certain member states. we managed to sort them out, some through legal actions, others through persuasion, but now that applies equally everywhere. one specific aspect i would like to mention is the initiative we took recently to convince non-eu countries to stop allowing the sponsorship of formula one events by the tobacco industry. as you know, we do not have the legal extraterritorial jurisdiction; on the other hand, as these events are broadcast back to europe they are viewed by the european citizens, they affect young people in europe, they undermine european legislation and european policies in this area, so i have contacted both those from the private sector involved in this and the respective countries which still allow – there are only three – tobacco sponsorship and host formula one events. hopefully soon we may have some positive results but i will pursue this issue. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteur, but also the members of parliament who are very committed in this effort. for me, and i have said that from the very first day, it is very frustrating that, in the european union, with the highest levels of education and standards of living, people still die of preventable diseases. more than 600 000 people die of tobacco-related diseases. i believe that this is a lifestyle where we can encourage change.
i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of smoking in public places. i feel, ladies and gentlemen, that we are now, with the resolution we are voting on tomorrow, playing a leading role in this field. the green paper initiative and the excellent report by mr florenz have certainly shown us the way. anyone who reads the resolution can only come to one conclusion: the european parliament is now voting for a zero tolerance policy on smoking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has also proposed an unlimited ban on smoking in public places, on transport and in closed workplaces, including in restaurants. but here my group thinks that we should take account of the decisions recently taken in a number of member states which have called for high, unpaid investments in a number of sectors. we must take this into account, but our ultimate aim must be to achieve an indefinite ban on smoking in the long term, including in these places. anyway, we've got the wind in our sails for this. if we are to believe the eurobarometer and other surveys, the people are fully behind us. and for those who still doubt the need to intervene, i would point out that since we arrived here in strasbourg on monday afternoon, there have been perhaps some 480 deaths in europe from the effects of secondhand smoke. colleagues, we must do something about this. my group too wants to make the maximum effort to achieve this and also wants to support all the supporting measures to stop smoking.
i am not going to repeat myself here: four minutes of speaking time is too precious. except to say that i welcome the broad lines of this motion for a resolution, as do most speakers. we can only applaud the information programmes and the preventive measures which will reduce the number of young people who smoke in the years ahead. that is true of tobacco deaths, and in another area it is true of alcohol deaths and road deaths. until then, i want to join the consensus. but we also have to be reasonable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am thinking, for example, of the green health apostles in my country who are vehemently opposed to tobacco but who, a few years ago, legalized soft drugs. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i have a few reservations about this resolution. in principle, there should be no need for supranational regulation in this area. the fact that europe is finally respecting the principle of subsidiarity means that it wants to reconcile itself with its citizens. let me give you an example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tobacco sector is not left behind. all good and all that, but then suddenly the bureaucracy comes around the corner. the label must cover 30% of the package and 35% if bilingual. the text must be in black letters with a black border of at least 3 mm and at most 4 mm, the font must be in italics, and so on and so forth. europe wants to dictate everything and no one who understands in retrospect where the indignation of the ordinary people comes from. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, there is the hypocrisy of subsidies for tobacco growers. until last year, it was worth 900 million euros a year. today it has been reduced to 300 million euros, but this is still a multiple of the money that will go to the information campaign to help young people to stop smoking. and also the comparison with our national states: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of tobacco in the community. but billions a year in excise taxes could then be used to finance the health costs of fighting lung cancer. forgive my cynicism. but what are we gonna do? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. these are also questions that must be answered if one is to indulge in high-sounding lyricism. otherwise, the citizens will be fooled. unfortunately, i cannot find answers to these questions. finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us not exaggerate, because the use of such language sometimes gives me a very bad feeling. i'm shy of the big right. a smoke-free europe is a reality. what big words. what a puritan. the sinners will be punished. let us not stigmatise the 30% of people who smoke too much. let us not become anti-tobacco ayatollahs, as a socialist minister in france once advised me. let's not get into american conditions. in california, some want to ban smoking in private homes by 2009. can you imagine that? how are they gonna do that? with commandos and snitches? with mandatory smoke detectors in every home? is this the example we want to reflect? we're going after them? are we going to ban simenon because commissioner maigret with his pipe would be a bad example for the youth? let's be reasonable about this. in many european countries - i am thinking of italy, france, the scandinavian countries and my own country - smoking has long been banned from the workplace and restaurants. and you better be. europe was not needed for that. but i also say, "live the freedom". let us, if the restaurant owners so wish, provide a small space for those people who want to enjoy a good cigar at their coffee or their pousse-café from time to time. but who knows, perhaps in the europe of tomorrow coffee will also be banned and exiled, because caffeine is also addictive. perhaps the commission can then do better by putting people on bread and water.
on behalf of the alde group the who decision of 30 august 2003, which provided for a temporary derogation from the trips agreement, has now been converted into a permanent derogation by a new decision of 6 december 2005. in his report, mr susta makes a number of very pertinent comments on the feasibility of compulsory licensing. i recognise many elements of my 2005 report, which translated the temporary derogation into a european regulation. i fully endorse the recommendations of the council and the commission, which mr susta links to the avis conforme. the mechanism created is indeed only a limited solution to the problem of poor countries' lack of access to medicines. the eu must support developing countries in finding a long-term solution to obtain the most essential medicines at a reasonable price and encourage investment that provides local manufacturing facilities. in this respect, of course, the transfer of technology, research and technical assistance is essential. i refer to recent reports that the market share of generic medicines is set to fall again. the reason for this is allegedly the inexpensive production by pharmaceutical companies of medicines whose patent protection has expired. this should include possibilities for poor countries where compulsory licensing could then provide a solution for medicines that are still patented, in accordance with the who decision. but if we are not to give vain hope to the millions of people who still lack the most essential medicines, we will need more, much more than a mechanism whose feasibility is and remains very doubtful.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, turkey has made little progress since the start of the negotiations. i refer, for example, to a recent report by amnesty international on the human rights situation and the treatment of minorities. turkey's attitude towards cyprus is hardly mentioned any more. moreover, there is a strong possibility that turkey will soon launch a large-scale military invasion of iraq. we will then have to see that a candidate member state not only occupies a part of the territory of an existing member state militarily, but also goes on to wage a kind of local war in another neighbouring country, this time in iraq. the majority of the people in europe are opposed to turkey's possible accession. that is because turkey is not a european country, and therefore does not belong in the european union. so instead of further undermining the credibility of europe, we should be more open and clear about our desire for a privileged partnership with turkey rather than full eu membership.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the florence motion for a resolution yesterday it was rightly noted that a large majority of the population is in favour of strict measures to ban smoking in the workplace and in the catering industry. i had hoped that this resolution would also take account of the majority of the vast majority of the population, namely that turkey cannot become a member of the european union. but i guess i've been living under a false illusion. when it comes to crucial issues, such as the constitution or turkey's accession to the european union, the opinion of the people suddenly no longer counts. turkey, a friendly nation, is not a european country. that's it. amen and out. that should close the debate. but not only is this parliament once again refusing to take responsibility, it is once again turning a blind eye to certain recent developments which again clearly show that turkey does not belong in the european union, and that the decision to open accession negotiations was a mistake. why does this resolution not mention the akp's opposition to a constitutional provision which makes conversion to another religion no longer a criminal offence? why is there such a lack of clarity on the armenian question and on cyprus? this is another example of european realpolitik, and we are in the right.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, you said in your opening remarks that relations with russia are good, at least better than what the international press is writing about. minister, are you living on mars? do you live on venus? do you dare to tell the russians what is at stake, or is the european union the end of the road for you? money and flat trade, is that more important to you than democracy and human rights? let's just say it like it is. russia is sliding towards a full-blown dictatorship with a strong leader. a strong leader who will not tolerate dissent and, where he deems it necessary, will deploy secret police forces from the fsb. a leader who does not want to relinquish power under any circumstances and uses all sorts of tricks to keep the reins in his hands after the parliamentary elections in december and the presidential elections in march. russia, minister, is evolving into a closed society where the ruling regime prefers not to tolerate peeping toms. i do not want to confine myself to theoretical considerations. the reality is that human rights in russia are under constant pressure and the state of democracy is deplorable. the reality is that free speech and freedom of the press are sliding into strict self-censorship. the recently passed law on extremism can easily be used to silence independent journalists and political opponents. the reality is that a strong and independent civil society is not desirable to the russian regime and that the position of ngos is under severe pressure from very restrictive legislation. the reality is, minister, that free elections are a utopia. only those tolerated by the regime are allowed to participate. the coalition 'another russia', united around gary kasparov, will be prevented from taking part in the parliamentary elections. finally, mr president, the situation in chechnya may no longer be politically topical, but the reality is still very worrying. there is a constant killing, people are illegally arrested and extorted, kidnappings are still daily, and torture is a common practice. that is the reality in russia, minister, and i hope you will take that into account when you speak to mr putin at the end of this week.
commissioner, president, ladies and gentlemen, the whole of this debate and the statements by the council and the commission make it abundantly clear how difficult it is to combine the necessary respect for russia, for that great and important country and that great and important people, with the promotion of our fundamental principles of the rule of law, a functioning democracy, a free media and respect for human rights. the balance is difficult to strike, especially since president putin has the ability to exploit any differences of opinion, even nuanced ones, between the member states. it has been said that there will soon be elections in russia - and we know that they will be held in a few weeks' time. in this connection i would like to stress that the conditions imposed on parties which are not represented in the duma are absolutely unworthy of a democracy. whether it is the amount of the deposit, the number of signatures required, the control of them - think of what happened a few months ago in st petersburg - there is nothing that can be said to be in line with our and, indeed, the world's requirements for fair and free elections. in other words, it does not look good at all. in addition, we are receiving disturbing reports of attempts to monitor the contacts of students or participants in visitor programmes. in other words - and i conclude, mr president - there is more need than ever for unanimity and vigilance among the member states to make cooperation possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the richard corbett report on the amendment of rule 173 on the report in extenso, although i regret the adoption of a whole series of amendments calling for the translation of the reports in extenso into all the official languages. to the hardcore supporters of multilingualism, i would say, to use a euphemism, that it is a falsehood to say that without this extension of translation, the european parliament would be the only parliamentary assembly in the world not to have all its acts and debates translated into all the languages on paper. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. that's the main thing, i think! in conclusion, i regret that our european parliament has not wanted to take part in a decidedly contemporary approach to access to documents: i say yes, a thousand times yes to multilingualism. but i will continue to oppose the so-called defence of linguistic diversity when it is used as an alibi for the defenders of the status quo and guilty immobility.
in writing. i voted against the proposal in the corbett report for the same reasons that i voted against the budget for the translation of the verbatim report of our plenary sessions being cut. in a parliament, the spoken word is sacred. what we say is not just a piece of the day's news, with any luck, it is part of a democratic legislative process. it is not a luxury to make this properly available in the official european languages. translation is politically necessary for proper archiving, which is also necessary for the discovery of information. we must bear the consequences of our fundamental choice of multilingualism and not let it be undone. a parliament with self-respect does not abandon its classical archiving. if we have to cut back, we'll choose better budget lines. i also maintain that a vigorous multilingualism is a form of respect for the diversity of cultures and languages in the eu and a blessing for democracy.
in writing. i supported amendment no 20 by the greens to delete paragraph 17 of the wagenknecht report on the contribution of taxation to the lisbon strategy. in order to ensure the proper functioning of our internal market, i am in favour of any contribution to tax harmonization at european level. and although taxation still remains an area of the sovereignty of the member states, it has quickly become necessary to ensure a minimum of tax coordination between the member states. in the field of indirect taxation, for example, the commission has gradually introduced a minimum rate system for excise duties in order to reduce distortions of competition. but in the report we are voting on today, paragraph 17 calls this system into question and calls for a code of conduct to replace it! i do not think that the 'encouragement' of the member states in the area of indirect taxation coordination is sufficient. i am even less convinced of the effectiveness of a code of conduct on excise duties: it would only increase the temptation to break up the community acquis, leading to the sad effects of unfair competition in this area.
i voted against the oomen-ruijten resolution because i believe that the european parliament should play a more active and ambitious role in monitoring the negotiation process with turkey. now it seems that we should not step on the sore toes of mr erdoğan and mr gül. it is becoming increasingly clear that turkey is not just another candidate country. turkey does not seem to have to be so strict about the copenhagen criteria, despite all the promises from the council, the commission and parliament that it should have been. it is therefore not surprising that more and more citizens in the european union are turning their backs on the european union.
the new vote on turkey's accession, mr president, is yet another illustration of the fact that europe is not only a far-from-my-bed-show for most of our citizens, but that the european institutions themselves are increasingly alienating themselves from the european citizens. for the eurocracy, europe is no longer europe, because the preparations for the accession of a country which is not european at all, not historically european, not euro-european, not culturally european, not religiously european, and not even geographically european, are being carried on with a sense of humour. moreover, the whole thing is being pushed down our throats in a fundamentally undemocratic way, because the vast majority of european citizens are indeed against turkish accession, but they are not allowed to speak. in the turkish dossier, as in the dossier on the new constitution which cannot be called a new constitution, the citizens are not allowed to speak. is the eurocracy afraid of democracy, afraid of referendums? this europe is only functioning undemocratically and antidemocratically, and that will all end very badly.
in writing. i have been keen to support amendments to the text being voted on today on relations between the european union and turkey, in order to recall the conclusions of the brussels european council in december 2006, which made explicit the principle that the union, in the field of enlargement, naturally required each candidate country to fulfil the copenhagen criteria in full, but also that any enlargement was conditional on the union's capacity for integration. many of you have known for some time my doubts, or rather my worries, about the ability of the european union to continue to function properly if turkey were to become a member of the union. of course, turkey is a 'friend' country which, geostrategically, represents a major partner for the union. i am therefore in favour of the european union having a privileged partnership with it. but i am strongly opposed to our union welcoming him into it. i think that the difficulties of turkey's integration as one of our potential member states will become increasingly clear as the accession negotiations progress.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on turkey encouraging it to speed up its reforms. we must ask turkey to make additional efforts. for effective control of the army by the civilian population. for a zero tolerance policy against torture. for the protection of women and minorities. for the recognition of the armenian genocide. the management of the kurdish question will also have to be used to evaluate reforms. the report we voted for urges the turkish government to launch a political initiative to promote a long-term settlement of the kurdish question. and condemns the violation of iraqi territory - while denouncing, of course, the violence perpetrated by the pkk. it is not a question of targeting turkey as such, but of recalling that there will be no double standards, that we will not sell the values on which we are founded. it would also be disastrous to continue to ignore the opinion of the people, which was also expressed in the poll conducted by "our europe" before the lisbon summit. europeans are concerned about possible future unprepared accessions and the eu's absorption capacity after the large waves of accessions in 2004 and 2007.
mr president, the kacin report deals with serbia and not kosovo, and not with what will happen after december. and it is true that it does not link serbia's reaction to kosovo to the promise of membership of the european union. mr lagendijk regrets this, and my group welcomes it, and considers that the european parliament is refusing to engage in any bargaining or parallel diplomacy. it is true that there is one issue that has been raised constantly, namely the icc and serbia's cooperation with the court. so, mrs carla del ponte has just launched - i will not say a cry of alarm, but still - she recalls the intransigence and uses the european union in relation to everything that concerns human rights, conditionality, and i think she is not wrong. i do not think, as mr lang does, that it is simply a matter of giving out good and bad points. i think that the issue of nationalism, that a culture of impunity, that four criminals - not the least - are still roaming freely in serbia, is unbearable. and i will say that we know from experience that a country has every advantage in clarifying its past and bringing justice to its crimes. we asked croatia to make a tremendous effort, we asked bosnia to make a tremendous effort, and it was these same efforts, moreover, which enabled us, after the second world war, to build europe. they are really at the heart of our values, it's not about points here, it's the heart of our values and it's the key to reconciliation in the balkans. i would add, though we are not talking about kosovo, that deputy prime minister djelic, who came to the european parliament a few weeks ago, reiterated to us that whatever happens in kosovo, his country has no intention of resorting to arms. i would like to remind you of this and i hope, without linking this to the kacin report, that this appeal has been heard even among his own people.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, the socialists have always strongly supported the principle of the ownership of development strategies by the populations concerned, so that their priorities are really taken into account. in this report we have therefore naturally placed great emphasis on the involvement of national parliaments and civil society in the new europe-africa strategy. in the current phase of preparation of this new strategy, which is intended to open up a new field of partnership, this participation has been largely lacking. it is essential and urgent to redress the situation. in this connection, we can welcome the successful initiative of the portuguese presidency in inviting delegations from the european parliaments and the pan-african parliament to the december summit in lisbon. let's hope this isn't just a symbolic gesture. we have also stressed - and mrs martens has just mentioned this - that there must be real coherence between the various european policies. this means that measures taken in the context of our trade, agricultural, fisheries and immigration policies, in particular, must be particularly attentive to their impact on the development of the countries of the south and africa in particular. we also recalled that the european union had promised to do everything possible to achieve the millennium development goals and to combat poverty as effectively as possible. in this context, we ask that the new europe-africa strategy clearly recalls its commitments and specifies the concrete measures to honour them as far as africa is concerned. as regards the economic partnership agreements, our position is very clear: we are in no way opposed, for any reason, ideological or otherwise, to the signing of agreements which would lay down the terms of a relationship which would be beneficial both to the europeans and to the peoples of the acp countries. we will, however, firmly reject any agreement which, once signed, would place the peoples of these countries, particularly those in africa, in a less favourable position than they are in today. that is the subject of the amendment we are proposing on this subject. finally, i would like to stress that at the moment we do not yet know the text that will be proposed at the next lisbon summit. you told us it was being drafted. we will therefore be very attentive to the way in which the recommendations contained in our report have been taken into account in the drafting of this text and of course we reserve the right to react to them as soon as we become aware of them.
the report by mrs martens contains a number of interesting recommendations, although i must admit that my group has some difficulty with the somewhat negative tone and the lack of a coherent, clear vision of the future in the report. seven years after the first summit in cairo, the portuguese presidency is trying to draw up a new eu-africa strategy together with the commission in what i believe is a fair attempt to get rid of the old model of give and take. it is of the utmost importance that this summit takes place. not just from a negative motivation, not just from a constricted reaction to china's growing influence. on the contrary, the growing awareness on both sides that europe and africa are no longer each other's exclusive preferential partners offers a unique opportunity to forge a whole new, much more balanced relationship. at first glance, the water between europe and africa does not seem too deep. however, for africa, any new partnership must essentially move away from the traditional aid dependence and the culture of charity and conditionality. there is a growing call for more industrialisation, for more private sector development and for more investment in the knowledge economy. fortunately, there is also a growing awareness in africa that it is primarily up to the individual to solve his or her own problems. europe must now make clear how it intends to support these promising developments without falling into the trap of paternalism, meddling and interference. any future partnership between the eu and africa will inevitably have to be based on the principle of mutual accountability. in this sense, unconditional abolition of agricultural export subsidies would, more than any other gesture, greatly enhance the eu's credibility with our african friends.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the conclusion of the protocol establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). but while i greatly appreciate the rapporteur's expertise in the field of development policy, i still feel that this report does not adequately address the root cause of africa's problems, nor does it address some very fundamental challenges. that may not be politically correct to say, but it is. contrary to what this report claims, africa and the european union today do not share the same view on greater democracy, good governance and human rights. the main cause of the poverty, hunger, insecurity and socioeconomic problems which plague the continent - and which are rightly listed in this report - are precisely the very bad and corrupt regimes which make no effort to respect good governance, democracy and human rights. for example, no one is disputing that mugabe is a criminal who is destroying his country and terrorizing his own people. but what do the countries of the southern african development community say? that the elections were conducted correctly and that the western countries should now mind their own business. allow me to question the promises of those same leaders about good governance. the report also rightly addresses peace and security. in africa, with its myriad undemocratic regimes, arms spending still far outstrips the massive development aid that goes to it, oxfam says. so all problems often come down to the same root cause. finally, i must say that i cannot agree with the paragraph on immigration. for anyone who thinks that the concept of circular migration can stop the brain drain from africa and the pressure of immigration on europe is, i fear, deluding himself in this respect.
madam president, mr minister, madam commissioner, much has already been said and of course we deplore - and this is a weak word - the use of these weapons of fragmentation which cause considerable damage in many countries, and i thank josep borrell for having actually raised this worrying problem. but for this ban and the will expressed in our resolution to be effective, we must go much further than the use of these weapons, we must think about their manufacture and marketing, because we cannot make a humanitarian speech on the one hand. it is true that these unexploded weapons, these weapons that are lying in the ground in all these countries, which prevent the return of the population and refugees, also prevent humanitarian aid. i would like to conclude by saying that this resolution may be an opportunity to appeal to the member states as well. in this respect, my country, belgium, has legislated, and i believe it has been a pioneer in this, and i believe that the law which has been adopted in belgium can serve as an inspiration for the other 26 member states in this matter.
president, commissioner, minister, president of the council, i take the floor to express my support for both the question and the way it was formulated by mr borrell and for our joint motion for a resolution. i am well aware that all the efforts made in the field of arms control are always very difficult and sometimes more like a procession of echternach, taking two steps forward and then one step back. i think we need to step up those efforts, because it seems to me that in recent years people who are working for disarmament, for arms control, for arms control, are old-fashioned specimens of a bygone era, because now it's all about rearmament. i find that particularly frightening. the fact that a head of state of the world's only remaining superpower has recently threatened a possible third world war, of course, strikes fear into my heart. in this context, which is far less conducive to joint efforts, i think it is more important than ever that the need for joint action by the member states, which unfortunately has not yet been done, be constantly emphasized, both on behalf of the council and on behalf of the commission.
mr president, i thank the minister for his answer. my concern in my question was twofold: firstly, the explosion in the number of agencies created after each council meeting. 12 new agencies in five years, an increase in staff from 166 to 3700. i have a double question: does the council regularly assess the need to maintain these agencies as such, even though their raison d'être may no longer be evident? and secondly: how does the council itself organise the internal control of the expenditure of all these agencies, and how does it see the role of parliament in this?
mr president, i am a little concerned because i see that in amendment no 231 we voted for a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. i wish i had some explanation.
mr president, very quickly, ladies and gentlemen, an oral amendment to the new article 61a, to amendment no 1, which would read the second part as follows: '... and again asks the commission to find solutions while continuing the negotiations'. i think i have the agreement of my colleagues from alde and the epp.
i voted against the martens report, mr president, although i must admit that there are many sensible things in the report, but in my view the report does not mention the main cause of africa's problems, nor does it give the right signal about the problem of the future, the challenge of the future, namely the invasion of immigration. why is it not even possible for a report from the european parliament to mention the main cause of poverty, hunger, insecurity and the social and economic problems in africa? the big cause is the bad regimes in place. these are the corrupt potentates who don't give a damn about good governance, democracy or human rights, but who in their own countries, and with the money they steal from their citizens, spend more money on weapons every year than they receive in total development aid. this is a disgrace. and the immigration signal is completely understated: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the middle east. but that should not prevent us from continuing to stress that pakistan is, of course, a military dictatorship, that human rights are being violated on a large scale in official pakistan and that the leader is still above the law. however, pakistan is also a strictly islamic state with no place for religious minorities or those of other faiths and, as has already been said, it has nuclear weapons. perhaps - but perhaps it should not be said - there is a greater danger from islamabad than from tehran - i do not know. i have a little déjà vu with pakistan, too. because, as in many other islamic countries - such as algeria at the time - military dictatorships or regimes in which the military plays a dominant role prevent the islamic fundamentalists from taking power. more democracy unfortunately often means more islamic fundamentalism, and paradoxically also less democracy. this is a dilemma we cannot solve by mere chance.
author. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after losing ten of his men in the attack on haskanita, general agwai, who heads the african union mission in the sudanese province, sounded a real alarm, saying that his troops were under-equipped, too few in number and likely to be defeated very quickly. so far, this situation has remained unchanged and attacks similar to the one on 29 september are still possible. the international community, and the european union in particular, must hear his cry, and the european union could make a very strong appeal for the good cooperation of all the member states involved in the support promised by the european union. in two days' time, important talks are due to take place in libya between the government in khartoum and various rebel forces. it is still unclear whether abdel an-nour, the founder of the sudan liberation army, now in exile in france, will participate in the talks. we do not know anything more about the other representatives of the various rebel forces, since their numbers change every day. in any case, these talks must be given priority, since they could lead to a ceasefire. we are also asking the european union authorities to communicate very widely the importance of this meeting and the european union's intention to support any positive progress that may result, both militarily and in terms of improving the working conditions of humanitarian personnel who are facing a particularly difficult situation. i would also like to remind you that, so far, the khartoum government bears a huge responsibility for the dramatic situation we are experiencing today, and not only because of its support for the arab janjawid militias which are spreading death and terror among the black african population. it is also the one which has been refusing, for months, to accept the presence of a western force in sudan. it is also the one which prevents foreign journalists and observers from accessing the most troubled areas, whereas the work they could do there would be of great help in continuing to mobilise international public opinion. we know that this is a necessary mobilization to help us to make everyone in europe take responsibility for what we must call by its proper name, namely genocide. it should also be noted that the future european force, which is to be deployed in eastern chad and northern central african republic, will make it more difficult for the rebels to move freely across the borders and to recruit fighters, willingly or by force, in the camps for refugees and displaced persons. in the face of this blockade, some armed groups are already turning to the other side of darfur, in the neighbouring kordofan region, of which haskanita is one of the gateways. here again, the support that the european union has pledged to provide could therefore prove very useful but also, very quickly, very insufficient. it is therefore our responsibility to continue to do everything we can to ensure that the political conditions for effective european intervention are met. we have, i think, seen enough violence and despair in this part of the world; the fact that the darfur conflict has already claimed hundreds of thousands of lives and has also destroyed the social fabric of the region makes the task of reconstruction more difficult.
the death of ten african union peacekeepers is, of course, another regrettable fact in darfur. this parliament has been rightly concerned about the region for years. but i regret that another opportunity to highlight china's responsibility and role in this conflict is being missed. because it needs to be said again: china's quest for influence in africa is playing a pernicious role in conflict-torn sudan; the european union must not allow itself to be drawn into a situation where it is not able to take action, and this must be done on the backs of the victims who are dying in darfur, and now indirectly on the blood of the soldiers who are trying to play a stabilizing role. the chinese, with their dubious investments, have made a huge contribution to the war effort of the regime there. europe must finally realize that as the chinese gain power in africa, our western message of democracy, freedom and good governance in africa is becoming increasingly muted. but yes, china is too important a trading partner for europe, and when realpolitik comes around the corner, the discourse on human rights and democracy is all too often put on the back burner.
president, i congratulate mr schmitt on this excellent report, and i congratulate commissioner figeľ on the white paper on sport. let me say that again clearly, because we are taking a very important step forward, especially with regard to the sports clause in the treaty on european union. the european union's involvement in sport, ladies and gentlemen, is not obvious to everyone. but some aspects of sport, whether we like it or not, must be seen in a european light. i 'll take one element out of it: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's sporting activities are not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. that can be perfectly integrated into the open-air policy, as we call it, also at professional sports clubs. sport, ladies and gentlemen, is an excellent instrument for giving socially disadvantaged groups of young people a chance to return to school and training. i think that aspect of sport also deserves maximum support. then, of course, there's the obesity problem. that call for an urgent approach. more and more young people, we read in mr schmitt's report, are being affected. in the eu of 27, one in four children is already overweight, not because these children eat too much, or because they eat the wrong way, but mainly because they don't move enough. the report therefore calls on the member states and the regions to devote a minimum of three hours a week to sport and to include it in the curricula of primary and secondary schools. that call came in no time. we cannot impose that from europe. we in europe do not want that either, of course, but we can brand the member states and regions that do not do so as the worst pupils in the class. it is also an economic necessity, because, as you know, childhood obesity is one of the causes of cardiovascular disease, also in later life. so we have every interest in investing more time and more energy in school sports facilities.
president. - mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mrs gutiérrez-cortines, and thanking her for her enormous efforts to strike a balance between those in favour of this directive and those against it in this very difficult matter. i myself am very convinced that a european soil protection directive is necessary for a number of reasons. i hope i can convince mrs mcguinness to do the same. some colleagues reject the framework directive because their country already has far-reaching legislation on land. my region, flanders, has also been pursuing a progressive soil policy for many years. for example, we have long had a compulsory soil test for the transfer of property, something that is still unthinkable in many eu countries today. i would therefore like to reverse the reasoning of my colleagues. this flexible directive not only provides a framework for member states which do not yet have a soil policy, but it can also help to avoid undermining the competitiveness of countries and regions which are already making efforts today. for this reason it is very important that all member states take the measures proposed in the report. cross-border impact is certainly there in many places, erosion in flanders could for example cause mud in the netherlands or vice versa. the directive also provides a coherent framework for existing legislation relating to soil protection. i have a number of other reasons, but for the sake of time i would like to conclude by saying that the report we are discussing today provides for all the needs mentioned much more than the original commission proposal. i myself have tabled a number of amendments and i am very pleased with the result. the proposal provides for a wide margin of manoeuvre for the member states, avoids additional administrative burdens or duplication of work and explicitly recognises the role of regional authorities. i therefore hope to have the support of my colleagues in the vote tomorrow.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president of the commission, commissioners, you have announced 26 strategic initiatives and 61 priority initiatives. i'm not going to comment on all of them in four minutes. in this type of debate, it must be kept in mind that the commission has a responsibility, a very special role in the community decision-making process. you have the monopoly of the legislative initiative and you have the power to filter through amendments, both to parliament and to the council. you have a great responsibility in the kind of results we get in terms of community legislation. i can therefore assure you that, as every year, the green group is in fact probably the most united group in support of this community method, because i think the commission has the formidable task of having to deal with the national interests and the sensitivities of the various national governments. to get to the heart of the matter, there are three points i would like to make. first, the energy policy. 2007 is a big year. the nobel peace prize has been awarded and the european council in march adopted objectives which we would have liked to have been even more ambitious, but which we supported. 2008 is, as you have indicated, now a year in which we are going to have to put things into practice. here we need to be very vigilant. we were disappointed with the results on car emissions. we believe that your approach to biofuels ignores the negative environmental impacts of this type of technology. we believe that in the second phase of emission allowances, we must move to an auction system and not give away free of charge what is in fact new financial assets. we are a little surprised that you are only announcing studies of a methodological nature on the internalisation of transport costs. it seems to me that this is a debate which has been going on among economists for at least fifteen years and that the commission could draw on good national experience. we also think, and this is the message that needs to be conveyed throughout this whole energy policy area, that you have to resist the idea, to please different lobbies or to meet different governmental demands, of using too many soft instruments. we need to use binding instruments, because the example of the car shows us that voluntary agreements do not really work. in the field of renewable energy, we do not think it is a good idea to allow flexibility between member states either. we all have to do our jobs. the second subject i would like to discuss is immigration policy. you have a very great responsibility in this regard. i remember kofi annan's speech to the european parliament a few years ago. it would be wonderful if the european union were to be awarded the nobel peace prize for a successful immigration policy. we are counting on you to ensure that this immigration policy, which you announced in your work programme and which has already been launched, does not end up with the adoption of a biometric passport common to all the member states. i think it would also be - beyond the disastrous situation - that it would represent for people an absence of credibility of the european union vis-à-vis the rest of the world. finally, the last point i would like to mention is the absence in your programme - which also surprises me, mr barroso - of the question of international financial markets. if you want citizens, or a large majority of them, to have a more positive attitude towards the issues of globalisation, the european union, and the commission in particular, cannot ignore the situation of the financial markets, the continued existence of tax havens, the inability of us to bring to the table the issue of exchange rates between the euro, the chinese yuan and the dollar. i think that we are waiting for ambitious initiatives from the european union to ensure that these financial markets work in the service of the economy and society, and not the other way around. i remember the debates we had on this in this parliament at the beginning of this parliamentary term. all of that seems to have disappeared from the concerns of both sides. in this connection, it seems to me important that you should relaunch an initiative with the support of parliament.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission, for example, seems to be taking over, in full accordance with earlier initiatives by commissioner frattini, the responsibility for legal immigration for work, which in my view is essentially a matter for the member states. the commission is thus imposing on the european citizens its response to the demographic challenges, which i consider particularly questionable, namely a new, very massive import of labour from non-european countries without the slightest democratic support or agreement from our own european citizens. let me be very clear about that: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and this at a time - i want to emphasize this - when in europe itself there are already many millions and millions of former immigrants of non-european origin, some of them already of the third and even fourth generation, who are still unemployed and are developing into a welfare proletariat which is hardly integrated, let alone assimilated. it is also very striking that the commission feels it must intervene in the educational policies of the member states. the communication on communicating europe in partnership to which this work programme refers literally states that the commission will examine how best schools in the european member states can teach core skills to their students and how best school communities in the member states can prepare young people to become responsible citizens in line with fundamental european values. i ask myself: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is big brother europe that close? the commission claims to put the european citizens first, but in reality it is very often acting like the emperor's tavern. often finished with the finger-pointing and the inquisitiveness of a frustrated teacher. the commission president barroso himself told the dutch people in their own country at the beginning of this year that they had had enough, that they were not bothered by the referendum and that it was time to accept the principles of the european constitution. it is the same great european democrats who are doing everything possible to ensure that our citizens have no say in this new pseudo-constitution or in the possible accession of turkey. and as far as my own country is concerned, barroso is allowing himself to be taught, along with other european mandarins, about the problems between flanders and wallonia, which are not hindered by any knowledge of the case file. in conclusion, and i am afraid i am not saying this for the first time in this chamber, and i am afraid i am not saying it for the last time either, this official europe does not seem to tolerate democracy, does not tolerate subsidiarity, does not tolerate a correct and clear and sharp division of powers between the member states and europe. it is therefore not surprising to me that the so-called reform treaty, apart from some cosmetic changes, is identical to the former constitution and is therefore only a disguised version of it, a totally illegible, obscure and veiled document which is intended to put the normal functioning of a democracy controlled by citizens out of the question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. transport and mobility are of course also a major theme in the 2008 programme. the challenges are, of course, accordingly clear. between economic efficiency, the impact on the environment and, last but not least, the rights and safety of the users, we must also set priorities for 2008, which we can only briefly discuss here. security checks at airports, for example, were then done under the pressure of a certain urgency. we in the epp group believe that this directive could be reviewed. passenger rights: the subject could be completed by looking at passenger rights in international bus transport in more detail. this would complete the whole issue of passenger rights in europe, both in air, rail and road transport. transeuropean networks: we have discussed this a great deal in the last few months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that clear decisions must be taken on the 2008 transeuropean networks and that crossborder lines must be given absolute priority in order to eliminate the so-called bottlenecks and, accordingly, to ensure that the so-called multimodal transport principle can be applied effectively. a rapid decision should and could be taken by taking account of those countries which have already provided for co-financing and where the projects have technically been successful.
i am sorry to say that i find the chapter in your legislative and work programme on europe as a global player to be extremely disappointing. there is, of course, little legislation in the field of foreign policy, as we all know, but there is so much more work to be done and i think that what is written about it, with a few exceptions, is actually very lacking. there is also apparently a problem in understanding the fundamental problem facing the european union when it comes to foreign policy. it is clear from the text that europe is the world leader in the fight against poverty, the promotion of sustainable development, human rights and governance and so on and so forth. all of that may be true, but it is not perceived as such by the rest of the world, and certainly not by the member states of the union, and i am particularly sorry that it is not. what is a fact is that the european union is the main provider of all those things that are listed. but to turn that into providing that into being seen as a global leader, as an entity that exercises global leadership, that's something else entirely. i find the proposals for programmes relating to africa to be a step in the right direction. i think, for example, that the proposal to launch a trilateral dialogue between the union, africa and china is very hopeful and positive. i also think that the whole point of working harder on economic development with africa is equally important. so, good motives, but still too little effect of a just ambition.
i have reservations about the schmitt report on sport in education. i would just like to say for the record that this is of course not because i am against sports in education, nor because i am against schools of all kinds of classes offering physical education in their curriculum. - no, it's the opposite. i naturally also agree that sports teachers should be treated on an equal footing with all other teachers. i have abstained because i believe that sport and education, and sport education in general, should absolutely remain the exclusive competence of the member states and that europe should not necessarily be putting its finger up everywhere. what is equally disturbing to me about this report is that it once again over-emphasizes the multicultural society and the so-called gender issue, and that this does fit in with the political correctness of the report. the european union, for god's sake, should remain within its powers.
in writing. the need to make young europeans love sport has certainly never been felt more than today. the reason is simple: in the face of the sedentary lifestyle that our children are exposed to, it is more than urgent to offer an alternative to snacking and gaming consoles! i therefore fully share the message conveyed by mr pál schmitt in his own-initiative report for more compulsory physical education, starting from primary school. a message that sounds like a double-slit reminder. first, school is the natural place to instill important social values such as honesty, solidarity, teamwork, tolerance and fair play from an early age. values to distill and share with the family too and above all! secondly, in the face of the dual threat, that of public health with the surge in obesity among our young people, and that of society with a school system that is made to measure, the european union and the 27 member states must react and rethink the relationship between sport and education. and the battle is far from won. the average child watches two hours of television a day - far more than the 109 minutes a week spent in physical education classes at school!
mr president, following the example of the european ministers of the interior, this parliament is giving the green light to the extension of schengen to the member states which joined in 2004. it will be a relief to many. but let me be a little less euphoric about schengen itself, because it is a fact: the european policy of open borders has also significantly strengthened the power of international organized crime. this created a schengen spillover effect. the system of open borders has always required a further transfer of powers, an ever closer police cooperation which will lead to a fully fledged european police and prosecutorial and criminal justice system, with its positive but also its negative sides. but the open-border policy also leaves the individual member states powerless to deal with the waves of regularisation of illegal immigrants that have been decided in certain countries - i am thinking in particular of spain and italy - waves of regularisation which in turn attract more and more illegal immigrants to the insufficiently protected european borders. the so-called european solidarity is completely lacking here. we must have the courage to say that too.
vice-president of the commission. mr. deputy, i'm afraid i can't agree with you entirely. as you know, we had the great european tourism conference in portugal just a few days ago, where all these questions were discussed at length. there were 500 of the leading experts from all over europe, and i did not get the impression at this tourism conference that the european tourism industry or the european member states were worried that europe might be less attractive as a tourism destination. the figures available to us do not support what you have said, mr president, that we are facing a particularly difficult situation here. i repeat: fluctuations in exchange rates have an effect on prices, but what europe offers to visitors from outside europe is not primarily determined by price. the decision to travel to europe is not a decision primarily influenced by price, but by the quality of what is offered in europe. however, i agree with you that we must pay close attention to the burdens on the european tourism industry and that we must ensure that the framework conditions are set in such a way that this industry can really take advantage of the enormous potential for growth and employment that it has.
member of the commission. thank you very much for your question, which gives me the opportunity to highlight the situation in the maldives. as president maumoon abdul gayoom pointed out at the recent un summit, the maldives, which is only 1.5 metres above sea level, is in danger of disappearing due to the constant rise in sea levels as a result of global warming. this has forced more than 300,000 refugees to emigrate. therefore, as the honourable member has very rightly pointed out, inviting the president of the maldives is an opportunity to highlight the danger facing the maldivian people. the maldives has also always actively contributed to international conferences on the least developed countries and small island developing states. this commitment was confirmed when the maldives participated in the third united nations conference on the least developed countries convened by the european parliament in 2001, and even more so when the maldives assumed the important role of chairing the panel of experts at the united nations framework convention on climate change. as regards the political situation in the maldives, in accordance with the statement by the presidency of the council of the european union, the commission welcomes the recent political developments in the maldives and expresses its satisfaction with the reforms implemented so far. the publication of the roadmap for the reform programme in 2006 was indeed good news. next year, in 2008, the elections will be an important step towards more democracy. the european commission is ready to support the reform process, including by offering special assistance for the 2008 elections. we are of course very vigilant when it comes to human rights. the commission was satisfied with the recent improvements and, inter alia, the release last year of two prominent activists: jennifer latheef and mohammed nasheed.
president, commissioner, i thank you for your reply. i have also heard from the ngos who have followed the european development days that they were very pleased with this initiative, as were the members of parliament who followed it, so congratulations on that. but i'm still a little hungry. you say that the political situation in the maldives is improving and that there is a roadmap, but on the other hand, isn't it a bit early - we can describe the man as at least a semi-dictator - to offer him such a forum, at such an important meeting? i think we should have some sense of that and not give him a platform where it's not really needed. i am not, of course, underestimating the problems of the maldives. i think we have to pay a lot of attention to that, but again, politically, this was really wise.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr cornillet for the work he has done on this report and for the intense debate he has had in our committee on development. i would also like to thank the commissioner for the relevant analysis he has made in his introduction to this debate. the report on humanitarian aid rightly focuses on the protection of humanitarian personnel and access to victims, which are indeed the two major challenges that humanitarian aid is facing and will increasingly face. in this connection, i would like to recall and emphasize, as the commissioner has done, that changes in the way the armed forces intervene can contribute to the tarnishing of the image of humanitarian workers. the confusion caused by the use of military personnel, sometimes to accompany humanitarian workers, inevitably leads to a loss of the immunity which ngos and their teams on the ground have enjoyed until now. furthermore, in order to be able to reach out to victims and claim a certain freedom of expression, it is of paramount importance that the organization does not appear to be a party to these conflicts or to be dependent on the politics of the organization's home nation. however, recent developments in conflict areas have made the perception of the position of ngos more complex. in darfur, in particular, several international ngos, including médecins du monde, are reporting a steady decline in their ability to reach victims outside displacement camps and an increase in violent actions against the population and humanitarian personnel. their room for manoeuvre is based both on the ngos' reaffirmation of their independence, both vis-à-vis the armed forces engaged on the ground and vis-à-vis any political position. it should also be noted that an increasing share of the financial resources of humanitarian ngos comes from institutional and, in particular, european funding. this situation can also contribute to a form of distrust of these ngos, which are not immune from being confused with the geostrategic positions of the donor countries or the union. for this reason, i would stress here that the increase in public intervention, which we welcome and which is an excellent thing, cannot, however, lead to the instrumentalisation of these ngos. in the last ten years, more than a thousand humanitarians have been killed in more than five hundred attacks on relief operations for civilian populations. if sufficient care is not taken to guarantee the independence of ngos, there will undoubtedly be a decline in their capacity to intervene and, consequently, a vast reduction in the areas of application of international humanitarian law. the media logic is such that the whole world is now focusing on the ark of zoé, an amateur association which is quite marginal in relation to the vast majority of humanitarian operations which are carried out by recognized structures, staffed by personnel whose courage and human and professional quality must be emphasized. this isolated case cannot therefore have the effect of discrediting all those involved in humanitarian aid. on the contrary, it reminds us that it is absolutely essential that humanitarian operations be conducted within the strict framework of international humanitarian law and un security council resolutions. we therefore welcome the fact that this european consensus, which will be adopted at the next session, confirms our request to set up within the council a formal structure specifically responsible for humanitarian issues and to review annually the consensus and the accompanying action plan.
mr president of parliament, mr vice-president of the commission, i think that there is a very big gap in the document before us and in mr barroso's speech, and that gap is really the analysis and proposals that are made on the functioning of international financial markets, on the existence of international tax havens, on the fight against international financial crime, and on international taxation, on capital flows as such. i think we have actually regressed in the international debate on this matter. i do not see any specific political initiative on these very serious issues, either in the written documents or in the speech by the president of the commission, and i link this to climate change and the debate we are going to have in bali, which includes an extremely important financial dimension, in particular to help the so-called most fragile countries to enter the kyoto protocol. this, as we all know, requires extremely large public funds. where are we gonna find them? i think that the abandonment, the refusal - even though i know it is extremely difficult - to bring this debate to the international level is detrimental to our international policy. the second point i would like to make is that of the global battle over standards, and in particular environmental standards and social standards, but more particularly environmental standards. the commission document is very general. mr watson said so, and i share his opinion. on page 6 you say: 'as a result of bilateral sectoral discussions with third countries, we are now seeing the emergence of a new international approach focusing on regulatory cooperation, convergence of standards and equivalence of rules.' i would like to know, mr vice-president, what this means for the preservation of european environmental standards. what does this mean for their future development and what does it mean in practice for their promotion at the international level, as mr barroso has mentioned? i am all the more concerned that, when reading the press reports on the negotiations currently taking place between or between the european union and south korea, it is clear that we are in a weaker position than the united states of america in defending social standards. you owe us specific answers to these questions.
president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that the commission is paying attention to the external dimension as a new element in the lisbon strategy, but above all let us not forget that globalisation also has consequences for our own internal european policy. it is true that the lisbon strategy has contributed to economic growth and jobs, but it is also true that not everyone has benefited from it. globalisation has greatly increased inequality and the gap between the educated and the uneducated in europe. i am therefore pleased that the commission and the employment council want to pay more attention to the social dimension in the future, because too many people - low-skilled, disabled, older workers, migrants - still do not have access to a good education and good job opportunities. six million young people leave school without a diploma, 72 million people live on the margins of society in poverty and europe has 14 million working poor. economic prosperity, ladies and gentlemen, must be for the benefit of all. that's why i want to put three extra points in the spotlight. first of all: it is clear that the new generation of policy instruments for lisbon must focus much more strongly on social inclusion, equal opportunities, the fight against poverty and good social protection. the social dimension must be re-established in the integrated guidelines. secondly: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's employment and training policy. quality work is not an automatic consequence of economic growth, and we need a clear commitment from the member states. thirdly: there is much more to be done in partnership. a good strategy for growth, jobs and social inclusion also requires input from national parliaments, local and regional authorities, social partners and civil society organisations. that is why my group believes that it cannot be business as usual for the next generation of lisbon instruments. there are reasons, mr vice-president of the commission, for updating the lisbon package on key points.
president. - the debate is closed. globalization is a fact. every generation has its challenge, it is sometimes said. our task is to respond in the best possible way to the new circumstances that globalization brings. and the best response, of course, is not to stop globalization. some people still tell people that. we cannot and we do not want to. it would be particularly counterproductive for europe, which is more dependent than any other on the rest of the world for raw materials, energy, markets and even, as a result of ageing populations, on the labour force. our response must be to guide and shape globalisation. this implies agreements and standards at a global level. as europe, we are well trained in intra-community agreements. let us now use this experience to provide more leadership at the international level. we must do so, mr president, with the necessary self-confidence and inspired by the values which also inspire our internal action, the values which we have so beautifully formulated in the reform treaty and in the charter of fundamental rights. ladies and gentlemen, the fact that yesterday we were able to see that the commission's work and legislative programme for 2008 is focused on the will to deal better with globalisation is a good sign, a sign that it is serious. the fact that globalisation was also a theme at the informal lisbon summit indicates that the lisbon strategy needs a new external dimension. as the group coordinator for the lisbon strategy, i would like to stress that this strategy has set us in motion. with trials and tribulations, we are now slowly making progress. the first three-year cycle after the mid-term evaluation is coming to an end and a new adjustment may be necessary. i would urge, mr president, that we should not focus so much on targets and percentages and statistics, but that we should really focus on the objectives: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. ultimately, we must strive towards our ultimate goal, which we hope we all share: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to achieve the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
mr president, i am glad to hear that there is a european consensus on humanitarian aid and that no sensible person is opposed to aid to countries which really need it. but let us also be frank about the fact that there seems to be no european consensus on a code of conduct for dealing with dictators. the british boycott of the eu-africa summit in response to mugabe's participation is simply ignored by other member states and humanitarian tragedies very often arise - everyone knows that - from wars or from criminal governance, as in zimbabwe. the reality is and remains that africa is the scene of bloody conflicts and that africans spend more on arms than they receive in development aid. it is equally true that states with a democratic system, where the rulers and the administration are not above the law, almost never go to war with each other. if dictators like mugabe can attend a european summit, europe will not be credible on human rights and democracy. it is because of this ambiguity that i have abstained from voting on the cornillet report.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the plenary of the report by cristina gutiérrez-cortines, which aims to establish a unified and coherent european policy on soil protection. protecting soils has become an eu priority because of the increasing degradation of european soils. the reason is rapid urbanization, the proliferation of contaminated sites (now numbering over 2 million), and intensive agriculture, which has used pesticides and nitrate fertilizers for the past 50 years. i think that the 225 members who voted against this directive were either nationalist zealists or at least they were not concerned with the concerns of the citizens! europe has a real added value to bring to soil protection where only nine member states have legislation. the directive leaves a wide margin of choice to the member states with two specific objectives to be achieved in the distant future: five and seven years after the transposition of the text, respectively, the member states will have to draw up an inventory of contaminated sites and adopt a national strategy for remediation. i think that is called respecting the principles of flexibility and subsidiarity!
mr president, virtually all the speakers before me have already pointed out: the declaration of a state of emergency in pakistan and the way in which it was carried out are totally unacceptable. it is unacceptable that musharraf should show such a lack of sense of democracy. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. you know there's already a lot of criticism of musharaf's regime: the regime is failing to combat, among others, the taliban, groups in and around al-qaeda operating on the border with afghanistan. the declaration of a state of emergency gives free rein to such terrorist organizations and will only worsen the situation.
mr president, recital c of the report states that the european neighbourhood policy must remain separate from the enlargement process and that the participation of the countries in the east, which are clearly recognisable as european countries, does not exclude the prospect of possible eu membership in the longer term. for some reason, that rule does not seem to apply to turkey. we see the opposite. turkey is clearly recognisable as a non-european country, not part of the european neighbourhood policy, but with prospects for eu membership. it has never been clear why turkey was not included in the enp. the commission stated at the outset that turkey, as a candidate country, did not belong there. this is strange, because in other cases it is rightly said that the neighbourhood policy and the enlargement process must remain separate. turkey is apparently subject to a sui generis arrangement. this is all about ideological blindness, i'm afraid. even if turkey's accession were to be negotiated, it should have been included in the european neighbourhood policy, if only as a precaution. if the negotiations were to be suspended, which in fact should have been done long ago, turkey could have been immediately integrated into an existing structure. that is not the case now, which will only make things more difficult in the future.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner špidla, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming this communication, which is indeed, as you said, commissioner, marked by real pragmatism on the part of the commission and which today allows us to debate a problem which is of concern not only to the citizens of the union's southern partners but also to our fellow citizens who often legitimately ask themselves the question of the effectiveness of the european union's development aid. in this particular case, the key message of our resolution is one sentence and should be accepted by all, regardless of political divisions. it is a matter of proposing the establishment of a simplified cooperation system which will enable the commission and the member states to provide more rapidly than at present the aid they have promised to partner countries which are experiencing a particularly serious crisis - i will not dwell on this since our colleague mr deva has just explained this at length - aid without which the populations of these states are seeing their chance of survival diminish further every day. once this aid has been approved, which is no small matter, the complexity and length of the current procedures for the delivery of european aid can lead to even more dramatic situations that directly harm the beneficiary populations. take the example of burundi, a small country to which i chaired the parliamentary observation mission for the last elections two years ago and to which i shall have the pleasure of returning in a few days. the european union has done a very important and remarkable job in supporting the electoral process and the democratization of the institutions, after more than ten years of bloody conflicts. once the institutions and the new democratically elected government were in place, they were quickly confronted with the reality and the needs to be met, first and foremost, by the people, whether in health, education or agriculture. there is no shortage of concrete projects in these different sectors, but european aid is absolutely crucial for their implementation. it is not only crucial for meeting the urgent needs of the people, but also for enabling the still fragile public authorities to begin a process of reconstruction without which there is a great risk that the country will quickly sink back into chaos. two years later, commissioner, the budgetary aid announced by the union has still not arrived. what is true of the great lakes region is also true of other regions of the world. that is why, madam president, subject to a clear definition of the conditions they must meet in order to qualify for it, all the states in the world which are in a situation of serious fragility and with which the european union cooperates should be able to rely on an exceptional system which guarantees rapid and effective intervention.
the report, mr president, with its rather cryptic title 'balance of social reality', was adopted almost unanimously in the committee on social affairs, with only one vote against, and that should not be surprising. the 97 recommendations it contains are just as many calls to help everyone and everything: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. i would say with some irony that the only population group that was forgotten in this report are people like myself: middle-aged, straight white men with right-wing political leanings. but i say without irony that there is no one in this house who does not agree that the weakest in our society have a right to protection and that a civilized society can be measured by the degree of social protection for people who for objective reasons have difficulty in being active in society in a normal way. it is therefore a bad thing not to include this catalogue of good intentions and social policy in this report. i shall not, however, approve the report before me. there are a number of points in the list of recommendations which i cannot support, particularly in relation to immigration policy, integration and diversity, and there is also the absence of essential protection of a family policy, but the main reason why i cannot support this is much more essential. social policy and everything that can be called social security is a matter for the member states and within those member states sometimes for the länder and not for the european union. if anyone in this house has a machine for producing money and resources out of thin air, unless it exists, social protection measures must still be financed with taxpayers' money. that means that choices have to be made and that unfortunately one cannot always be santa claus for everything and everyone. the commission has already taken a number of important decisions, and i am sure that the council will take them into account. in my own country, for example, we find that flemings and walloons make fundamentally different choices, for example, in the area of health care or the approach to unemployment. our flemish and walloon societies are different, our political and economic world is different, and so we choose a different approach and different priorities. if that is already the case in belgium today, how much less is it the case mutatis mutandis in the very different member states of the european union, such as the united kingdom and romania? if this report is just a catalogue of good intentions, that is fine, but the european institutions have been trying for years to take over the social policy field, and that is not a good thing.
i have not approved the coelho report, mr president, mainly because i want to address the many pain points of the open borders policy of the schengen agreement. the schengen system is, or falls, in the form of strict, watertight controls at the external borders, which clearly do not exist, and a strict, coordinated approach to crime in all member states, which is only too limited. finally, all schengen countries must also have a strict immigration policy, which is completely contrary to the massive waves of regularization that we have had in recent years in quite a few member states. in these circumstances, i cannot, as a human being and as a politician, be happy, because i am no longer checked at internal borders, since criminals and illegal immigrants are no longer checked, and this is bad for our society.
in writing. i would like to express my vote on the report on the recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. given the really critical state of bluefin tuna stocks, the eu is responding by means of this regulation: gradual reduction of catch quotas, limitation of fishing periods, or even reinforcement of controls to prevent illegal fishing. i support these proposals. i am a little pessimistic, though. firstly, because scientists are already saying that the provisions of the regulation are not sufficient to ensure the replenishment of stocks. they argued that quotas should be set well above the annual catch rates set by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icsta). i tend to believe them, and that is why i supported amendment no 13 tabled by the greens. secondly, given the presence in the mediterranean of fleets from third countries such as libya, turkey, tunisia, japan and china, which are not members of the iccat, it is clear that the regulation under consideration will only have its effect there if these countries adhere to the provisions it lays down, which is not guaranteed.
in writing. europe will not be able to tackle the growing poverty and global warming - the great challenges of globalisation - if it continues to prioritise liberalisation. it is free trade that is creating these problems. globalisation creates the illusion that the general level of prosperity in the world is gradually increasing, but at the same time i see that the gap between the rich and the poor in the member states is steadily widening. liberalisation is also the cause of the great environmental disaster we are heading for if we do not take decisive and enforceable measures against global warming soon. it is irresponsible and criminal not to pursue a more vigorous policy in this area. investing in an energy-efficient economy and creating jobs in that direction is a promising story, however. the polluter pays principle is too often ignored. as a green mep, i miss this move. if europe is to be a single market where people, goods, services and capital move freely, then europe must also set high social and environmental standards which protect and set an example for the rest of the world. the proposed text remains vague and superficial and once again typifies the commission's policy.
mr president, it is getting more and more silly. now this parliament, with a majority, feels it is necessary to accuse the italian people and the italian government of xenophobia. the resolution also states that the italian government's approach to the problem of the criminality of romanian gypsies in large numbers has contributed to the build-up of tensions. so italy is really doing it all on its own and should have participated in the european social fund programmes for the integration of roma people. let me make it clear that the italian people and the italian government have the right to defend themselves and that what has happened above all shows that the directive is not appropriate and that the deportation of criminals - i stress this - should be facilitated, not of good people who work to support themselves, but the deportation of criminals should be facilitated, not made more difficult.
i do not wish to undermine the very good work of our two colleagues who have drawn up this report on the european neighbourhood policy, but i would like to note that this report shows a gap in that it fails to mention the immense challenge of immigration from the south, for which i believe that the north african countries themselves bear a huge responsibility. i would have liked to see in this report a plea for a joint policy of the european union countries with the countries of north africa to combat illegal immigration, in which the north african countries themselves would be fully placed in charge and good neighbourly relations and financial and material support from the european countries would be made dependent on goodwill, on a joint approach to this enormous challenge. this is missing from this report. i think it is fundamental and that is why i abstained.
mr president, no one can deny that citizens in europe must be armed with fundamental rights and freedoms, both vis-à-vis their own state and vis-à-vis the european union. a europe without rights and freedoms would no longer be europe. but that's not the issue here today. the citizens are already sufficiently protected against their national authorities by their own national constitutions and by the echr. the individual european can also assert fundamental freedoms and rights vis-à-vis the european institutions, in accordance with the settled case law of the court of justice. the point is that the signing of this charter marks a new step towards a federal europe. as in the federal states, they wanted a european bill of rights. the difference between the two is that this charter goes far beyond a list of the classical rights and freedoms. sometimes it seems like a list of all kinds of socioeconomic promises. so the flag does not cover the cargo at all.
the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. the european institutions are increasingly - and rightly so in my view - mistrusted by our citizens who do not really accept that many important decisions which directly affect their lives are taken in cenakels which are no longer controlled by anything or anyone. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have the power to decide on this. i'll give you two examples. first example: the text of the new european treaties to be signed in lisbon. everyone knows that this is a slightly modified version of the european constitution. mr zapatero himself said: not one essential element has changed. the text worked in democratic referendums, in france and in the netherlands, it was voted down and now it is all laughed at. in the best case, we might be able to vote again here and there until the eurocrats are satisfied, but in reality democratic decisions are simply thrown out of the referendum. i am afraid that in this way europe will gradually become more and more a very small club, which will govern like a superstate, which will not tolerate participation and therefore cannot be called a democracy. the same applies to the way in which turkey's potential accession to the european union is being handled. it is not what our citizens want, on the contrary, because turkey is not a european country - not culturally, not geographically, not religiously, not in any way - and yet the commission and the council give a damn about the opinion of the majority of our citizens on this. instead of a debate on the future of the union, we should actually be having a debate on the restoration of democracy in the institutions of this european union.
mr president, the fact that we are welcoming the spanish prime minister to our house today may give the wrong impression that we are still in the period of reflection on the constitution, because that is what this series of prime ministers was designed to do. but fortunately that period is over and there is now agreement on a good reform treaty. of course you are welcome here, mr prime minister, because even now it is still worthwhile to talk about the future of europe. more than ever, because the treaty is not an end point, but a new beginning. it is not an end in itself either; it is a tool that we must use effectively and that offers us a perspective for better governance, for more democracy, for the realisation of values such as freedom, security, prosperity and the further development of our social market economy in an open globalised world. and believe me, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these are the same objectives pursued by many people in belgium in their desire for state reform. it is also purely instrumental, it is also aimed at achieving the objectives which we share with many others here.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have been working together for a long time to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the needs of the citizens of the union. this is only 1% of the gross national product of the 27 member states, but it is still a lot of money. it is money that is being hoisted by you and me and by all taxpayers and therefore also deserves serious scrutiny. that is one of the key tasks of the european parliament. for the 13th time in a row, i note that the court of auditors refuses to guarantee the absolute legality and regularity of this expenditure. this is not a factual situation. there's a place for some indignation here. it is a serious warning to the commission, but also to the governments of the member states, to act here. the belgian member of the court of auditors, karel pinxten, wrote in the newspapers de tijd and echo de la bourse, and i quote him: "such a reservation by a corporate auditor or an external auditor for a publicly traded company with the size of the european union budget would send shockwaves through the financial markets". he's got a lot of sense, and we can't let that go to waste. what are the bottlenecks? agriculture, still the most important budget line, at over eur 50 billion. the positive developments there are undeniable, especially as a result of the application of the integrated administration and control system. but, ladies and gentlemen, let us also be clear: some member states, and greece in particular, refuse to join the system. so this money is managed by the administrations of the member states and i think we should show a clear red card to greece here. we must reiterate our demand that payments to greece in the form of agricultural payments be suspended until greece finally gets on track. the second problem in agriculture is the payment - mr weber has pointed this out, mr kallas has referred back to it - of agricultural funds to golf clubs, railway companies, horse breeding companies, also to landowners, who apparently are not farmers and who are going to be running on money from the agricultural budget. so these are usually people who have a noble or a royal title. there's a little bit of a "what if" game going on here. mr weber says it is true, mr kallas says it is not true. there has been a hearing in the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, mrs fischer boel, and the commissioner for agriculture says that this is all exaggerated, she is minimizing the whole thing. i would like to hear mr kallas' reply, mr weber's reply, and the state of play. can the court of auditors make this hard? is she sticking with that charge? the second major budget item is still the structural funds. the court of auditors' report says that 12% of this money should not have been paid. this is not possible. we should be there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 80% of european money is managed by them. i therefore repeat the demand of our parliament, of the plenary, that they sign a declaration stating that european money has been spent correctly and thus also accept their political responsibility. denmark, the netherlands, the united kingdom have done so. what about the other governments of the member states? where is belgium, where is france, where is germany? should they not finally take political responsibility too?
the leinen report, mr president, is yet another manifestation of the cancer of financial self-management which this european union is becoming for all political parties. it is particularly characteristic in my view that even european election campaigns are now being financed by taxpayers, which of course means the campaigns of eurocratic parties, because as we know, the bar is set high and it is virtually impossible for eurocritics to meet the conditions for financing. this is yet another theft of taxpayers' money being sold in this house under the guise of democratization. the same people who are using today, the same parties that are using today from the pot of community money, are the same people who simply ignored democratic referendums in france and the netherlands and then in denmark and still ignore them today. these are the same people who say that our citizens should not have a say in the prospect of turkish accession. so that they will for god's sake keep their mouths shut about democratization and not disguise their financial wolf-lust as service to society.
i voted against the roure report for a number of fundamental reasons. one is that legal protection against racist acts can be perfectly achieved by the member states, in other words, action by the european union in this area is fundamentally contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. the framework directive is also an attack on freedom of expression. while it is acceptable to combat racism - and i mean racism based on specific incitement or violence - it is unacceptable to confuse this concept with a legitimate public discourse, such as opposition to mass immigration, opposition to islamization or defence of national identity.
i voted against the leinen report on the financing of european political parties because it is unacceptable that european funds should flow to existing european political associations and that this should discriminate against movements which do not feel the need to organise themselves at european level. it is also very cynical to propose that european funding of european electoral campaigns and of all kinds of european political foundations is a strengthening of european democracy. because, as my colleague has already said, it is the same european political parties that have always called for the french and dutch votes against the european constitution to be wiped out and for the ratification process to continue. i have never heard the same parties advocating a referendum on turkish membership. but that would be a strengthening of european democracy. but funding seems to be available only to those parties which want to be politically correct in europe. that is why we must vote against this funding.
mr president, since i have already said all the bad things i think about the first leinen report, i would like to add my support to what my colleague philip claeys said earlier, which was also a reply to the strange intervention of mr bourlanges. there is a complete confusion arising between the concepts of racism on the one hand and legitimate public discourse on the other. this is also evident from what the european observatory against racism said when it claimed that islamophobia is a new form of discrimination and that the danish cartoon riots should be tackled with a law against blasphemy. all this is very dangerous, now that we are finding that normal public discourse in favour of islam and islamization can be interpreted as inciting hatred against muslims. for all these different reasons, we consider this whole discourse unacceptable and have rejected both the leinen and the roure reports.
i voted against the leinen report because it expands the system of financing european political parties, which i consider unacceptable in itself. in addition to numerical criteria for eligibility, there are also ideological criteria which mean that parties who go against the grain do not stand a chance. the established parties and political groups decide who gets money. there is no possibility of appeal against the decisions taken. what we also have to establish is the stealthy decision-making, the typical salamite technique used here. the principle of european party financing was launched cautiously a few years ago. it was then explicitly stated that the money could not be used to finance electoral campaigns. what's going on now? election campaigns will be funded. on top of that, there will be money going to all kinds of political foundations. in such circumstances, mr president, you will understand that i voted against this self-service shop.
i do not want to create any misunderstanding. my vote against the leinen report on fundamental rights should not be taken to mean that i am opposed to the granting of very fundamental rights and freedoms to european citizens. i have, by the way, intervened many times in this hemisphere and beyond to protect free speech and to fight the mules. the point is that this report is not about fundamental freedoms. fortunately, the european citizen is already armed with very fundamental rights and very fundamental freedoms, including against abuse in his own country and abuse at the level of the european union. the reason why i voted against this is because making this charter binding is actually a very big step forward towards a federal europe. i am in favour of a confederal europe of free nations and therefore voted against this report on fundamental rights, without, of course, being against fundamental rights.
member of the commission. mr president, this will be a very encouraging start for me. i am glad to announce that the commission is ready to accept the majority of parliament’s amendments. as this debate has shown, there are currently negotiations under way that will address your concerns. a compromise could open the door to future development. the commission supports the debate that is still ongoing and sincerely hopes that a solution will be found that is acceptable to a broad majority within this house, as well as to the member states represented in the council. however, it should not be forgotten that the inclusion of new topics in a census takes in-depth and long-haul preparation. i am confident that the correct balance will be found between the very important reporting on the eu population and housing, and the cost and effort of collecting the data. i would like to pay special attention to the question by ms schroedter. the main point was that this legislation does not sufficiently assure data confidentiality. my answer is that data confidentiality is being taken most seriously by eurostat and all national statistical offices. there is framework legislation on data confidentiality on the national as well as on the european level. the proposal on censuses does not violate or modify any of this legislation. in contrast, it fully respects all provisions, be they national or european. there is no need to repeat established framework legislation on data confidentiality within this specific proposal on censuses. no data transmitted to eurostat allows insight into the data of any particular individual person. it is anonymous data. moreover, the legislation in this current draft allows only the transmission of aggregated data, not of microdata.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank parliament for its continued interest in product safety issues, and for this opportunity to give you a short presentation on the first results of the product safety stocktaking, released on 22 november 2007. i attended the imco committee meeting on 26 november and i am now pleased to address the european parliament meeting in plenary. my three starting points and principles are still valid and can be confirmed: there can be no compromise on consumer safety; we believe in open markets and fair competition; and we want to work in international partnership with the chinese and the americans. these stocktaking results indicate that the regulatory framework is fit for the purpose, if and when it is properly applied. in particular, the rapid alert system rapex is working efficiently and ensuring that dangerous products are recalled from the market throughout the european union. the stocktaking report nonetheless identifies certain scope for improvements, in preventive actions and international cooperation as well as in enhanced enforcement. some envisaged improvements are already at an advanced stage towards becoming concrete actions, as is notably the case of the revision of the toy safety directive. i intend to propose to my colleagues in the commission that we adopt a temporary measure to require that warnings be given on magnetic toys, pending revision of the standard, to address the risks that these toys could pose. we have this right under article 13 of the general product safety directive. i hope that this measure will become effective soon, but i am also aware that it is just a partial stop-gap solution until the relevant standard addresses the risk associated with magnets comprehensively. the commission is assisting the member states’ market surveillance authorities to identify and share best practices with a view to improved market surveillance. in october 2007, member states reported on initiatives for better cooperation with economic operators and on specific surveillance campaigns on toys. the commission intends to publish comparative enforcement capacity data on the consumer scoreboard in the first quarter of 2008. the commission also continues concretely to reinforce the market surveillance capacity of the member states by participating in the financing of well-designed joint market surveillance projects (which in 2007 will receive eur 1.3 million in community funding). the protection of consumers against dangerous products requires a consistent level of protection not only within the community, but also at the eu external borders. in addition to actions to improve protection within the european union, various actions are under way to strengthen protection at borders. recent major changes to eu customs legislation will help in identifying high-risk consignments for control. secure customs exchange mechanisms will also enable rapid action to be taken when information becomes available on new types of dangerous products. cooperation between these two networks, in practical terms, is being stepped up through regular exchanges of alerts between the rapex system and the customs authorities’ ‘risk information form’ system. the latter draws border inspectors’ attention to specific, potentially dangerous, cargo. the commission has highlighted traceability, which is a very important area for further improvement. statistics show that products of unknown origin notified through rapex were down for the first time in october 2007, standing at 3% as compared to 17% in 2006. the commission is currently assessing, with the help of the member states, how to ensure that this improvement is not just temporary. the commission has already included, in the ‘internal market for goods’ legislation package, a provision requiring economic operators to have available the identity of their supplier, which should be helpful for market surveillance interventions once this legislation enters into force. the commission has also asked what china could do about traceability, and welcomes the initiatives in china to require the bar-coding, at factory level, of certain categories of high-risk product. the commission also consistently highlights the responsibility of economic operators for product safety. i welcome the commitment from the industry to work on measures to build consumer confidence. we have agreed on what i call a ‘safety pact’. i will also send experts to carry out a study of business safety measures in the supply chain, and report further on this in the first quarter of 2008, because in the era of globalisation we are only as strong as the weakest part of our chain. i also find it important to communicate with the citizens of europe on product safety issues, and to listen to their concerns. this is essential because both you and i want to respond ever better to their queries and needs. i found my recent web chat under the topic ‘have a safe christmas’ (which i very much enjoyed) most enlightening and engaging, and answered nearly 50 interesting questions. finally, our product safety concerns were communicated to the chinese leaders at the eu-china summit on 28 november 2007. the leaders on both sides shared the view that a high level of product safety is key to consumer confidence and reciprocal trade. to this end, the competent authorities have established a comprehensive cooperative relationship. both sides are willing to continue and deepen the dialogue, regularly exchange information and aim at measurable, continuous improvements. likewise, the commission has agreed with the united states government, in the context of the trans-atlantic economic council, to enhance our cooperation on import safety issues. i believe this report to you has shown that i and all my colleagues in the commission have taken the necessary steps to enhance consumer product safety, in association with all the relevant actors, in the most effective, proportionate and committed manner. i would like once again to thank parliament for our many inspiring debates on this issue.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course no coincidence that we in the ppe-de group have called for this topical debate just before christmas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want to make it clear that we want a high level of consumer protection and that we want to keep the attention paid to the smallest, the most vulnerable consumer - the child - high on the agenda. commissioner, i am glad to hear your statements here. we note that you have already done a great deal of work in the commission and we would naturally like to see the member states encouraged to do their part. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. we also know, commissioner, that you personally make every effort to protect the consumer. we are very grateful for this effort and we agree with you that we should not invent yet another new approach to toy safety, but that we should close the gaps in the existing system. a few things i'd like to have clarified: you have said - and you have now referred to it - that the chinese government is also working very hard. you announced some time ago that they were going to set up a kind of chinese rapex system. perhaps you could clarify that a little more. secondly, i wonder whether there are any real agreements with the toy industry or whether each member state has its own way of doing this. i would also like to know why we are still waiting for the new toy directive or the commission's proposal to amend the existing toy directive? we were expecting it around this time. apparently there's a delay. perhaps you could explain to us how that is? you 're absolutely right about the other thing . the single market is also for consumers. if consumers do not have confidence, they will not make sufficient use of that market. this is a very, very important file.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate our rapporteurs and the rapporteur-general, our friend kyösti virrankoski, and the entire delegation of the european parliament, led by mr böge. i congratulate the commission and, much more rarely, the presidency of the council, which has dared to take up its responsibilities. mr president, if there were a european legion of honour, i think you would deserve it. on the substance, for me and many of my colleagues, the main thing for the 2008 budget was to ensure full community funding for the launch of the galileo project, alongside the european institute of technology, without prejudice to the funding of programmes implementing the lisbon strategy. the result is a given, it is good news for the whole of europe and it is news which we can explain easily and simply to our fellow citizens, and whose significance they understand. if i take up my hat as a member of the libe committee for a moment, i should like to welcome the fact that the committee on budgets has agreed with the libe committee's opinion on the abolition of the reservations relating to sis ii and frontex. these are two essential instruments for controlling the union's external borders, and we must make them more effective. i would, however, ask that we reserve all the appropriations for the european return fund until we have adopted - parliament and council - the proposal for a directive on the standards and procedures of the member states for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the european union rightly wants to support human rights in third countries. but to be credible, all democratic rights must be respected here too. and that is not always the case, particularly when it comes to the right to freedom of expression. that right is one of the most fundamental fundamental rights, if not the most fundamental fundamental right, but it is becoming more and more problematized. criticism of the failed immigration and integration policies in particular is increasingly being labelled as racism and thus criminalised. the report we are discussing today also makes that mistake. people risk being persecuted and condemned, not for their actions, but for their thoughts and the expression of those thoughts. in this way, the policies pursued do not bring a solution to the problems, but are themselves part of the problem.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must have the courage to face the truth. the european-african summit last weekend was a failure, and the reason for this is not to be sought far away. while there may be some fine statements about a new strategic partnership, the fact is - as i said in lisbon - that a full partnership between europe and africa must be based on shared values and principles, such as democracy, human rights and good governance. this is far from the case today. europe is rolling out the red carpet for gaddafi and mugabe. for gaddafi to get lucrative contracts, for mugabe to avoid embarrassing other partners. but if the african union member states continue to openly support dictator mugabe, the question arises as to what their own promises on democracy and human rights are worth. so i'm going to say it again here: if there is one message that europe should have given at this summit, it is that only democratic legal systems can guarantee improvement and that development aid must be conditional on these conditions being met.
mr president, commissioner, in the aftermath of this european union-africa summit, it is good to make some observations which could perhaps sum up the content of this important meeting. as the commissioner said, the results of this summit can indeed be seen as positive. firstly, we have been asking the commission for months, if not longer, to revise the agenda and the content of the economic partnership agreements. each time the commission, or at least some of its representatives, assured us that the criticisms we were making were not shared by any african government officials or partners and that we were only relaying, i remember this response in committee the perverse speech of a number of large ngos. in lisbon, criticism was directed by most african heads of state and government at both the method and the content of the negotiations on this subject. a very clear call was made for time to be taken to sign agreements which are fair, balanced and in line with the commitments made by the european union in favour of the development of africa. we have been asking the commission for a long time to ensure that there is real coherence between its various policies. if we agree with the failure of several decades of european development cooperation with africa, we maintain that the limits of this cooperation are those which the commission has constantly set for it, often taking back from one side what it gave from the other. after lisbon, it is clear that the challenge is not to replace trade with cooperation but to ensure that these two policies pursue the same objective of sustainable development. in the field of food security, the fight against disease and human rights, migration, support for fragile states in particular, we have also never ceased to ask the commission to do more and much better for and with africa. it is conceivable that this will be the case from now on, and that is good. it is therefore no longer possible to ignore that the demands of this parliament are shared by ordinary african citizens, but also by their political representatives. we welcome the involvement of parliaments that have been ignored for so long in this procedure. we hope that the next summit will provide an opportunity to measure the effectiveness of this new strategy more quickly and without too much delay, so as to check the balance between objectives and achievements.
madam president, commissioner, i am glad that you are sensitive to the fact that the gas and electricity consumer should be given priority by applying more restrictive measures in this sector, which will hopefully have an effect on prices, a downward effect, of course, for the citizens of the european union. i will give you an example: in belgium we are told that the 20% increase is intolerable for the poorest. as a humanist, i cannot accept such a situation. furthermore, could you assure me, commissioner, that consumers will be well involved in all phases of the implementation of liberalisation, by including them in the various advisory committees but also by including them in the new dispute resolution mechanisms?
the debate on the protection of designs for visible replacement parts has been going on for almost a whole generation of members of parliament. it has been discussed for 17 years, but so far we have not been able to reach a final agreement on this important economic legislation and to bring the laws of the member states into sufficient harmony. we are now three years into the launch of the current commission proposal and finally we are going to vote on the first reading tomorrow. the report by mr lehne points the way in this respect. it respects the intellectual property of the design of the assembled product as a whole and at the same time it gives us room for the proper functioning of the internal market for replacement parts. the current fragmentation of the internal market is no longer tenable. it deprives the producer of the components - the independent producer - of the opportunity to benefit from the economies of scale of the internal market. it deprives independent repairers of the choice of supplier and consumers of the opportunity or benefit of the downward pressure on prices which is normally the result of effective competition. and now that we have removed the last obstacle, namely safety, with the new directive - malcolm harbour also mentioned it earlier, the new directive on vehicle typeapproval - it is time to make a final decision. i do not even need the five-year transitional period, but since i too have learned during all these years - 16 of the 17 years of debate - that politics is the art of the feasible, i can live with those five years, with that compromise. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. let us opt for the single market. this is an aspect of the internal market which allows us to demonstrate very clearly that it is also in the interests of consumers. let's make a choice for the consumer.
president. - mr president, when chavez's plans for a very radical constitutional change were recently rejected by a narrow majority in a popular referendum in venezuela, the would-be dictator of venezuela accepted this verdict of the people, as is the custom in a more or less free country. i think that we in europe have a great deal to learn from this. we are being served with a so-called european constitution, which was rejected by a large democratic majority in two member states. barely changed, except for a few cosmetic surgeries. there should be no real debate on this new text, and certainly no referendum in countries where a critical vote or rejection might be expected. the european constitution, excuse me, the treaty of reform, is signed in lisbon with much fanfare and then chased by the parliamentarians with the karwats. europe is a sham democracy. and the way in which the citizens' vote is being used in the eurocracy was also shown very recently by what commissioner rehn told us about the potential accession of turkey. i quote: "national agreements or concrete electoral promises must not stand in the way of such accession". what is promised to voters in elections about turkey's candidacy is of no consequence to the european mandarins. the venezuelan people are still living in a democracy, but the eurocracy is much less democratic.
ladies and gentlemen, in this hemisphere many resounding declarations on human rights have been made in recent decades. the solemn signing of the charter of fundamental rights was to highlight the essence of europe once again. we are a community of values based on solidarity, tolerance and respect for human rights. that's the theory, but the truth is different. the real motto of the european union on human rights should be different. the last few weeks have amply demonstrated that those who talk about human rights often pay homage to the other principle of realpolitik: first the fressen and then the moral. in paris, nicolas sarkozy, in exchange for lucrative contracts, is giving the red carpet to a mass murderer who a few days ago was trying to legitimize terrorism and who boasts that he is not wasting a word on human rights in his country. in lisbon, a bloodthirsty tyrant like mugabe is given a very warm welcome, because in africa too we must think of our commercial interests. in china, we have the same attitude. last year, amnesty international reported that beijing was backtracking on key issues such as the death penalty, judicial proceedings, freedom of the press and freedom of movement for human rights activists. meanwhile, the chinese capital is being expertly cleaned up, says amnesty international. re-education through labor and imprisonment without charge are now also applied to offenses such as illegal poster placement, unlicensed taxiing, and begging, to name a few. the human rights activists will have to be silenced, but the stadiums will be sparkling next year, colleagues. many european excellences will be drumming their feet to be in the front of the stage at the opening of the games. and when they return home, they will no doubt continue the fight against extremism in europe. you can't eat enough of a man who wants to puke.
mr president, i think it is a very good thing that we are becoming strategic partners. i think it is a very good thing that we no longer have only economic ties, but that, for example, cultural exchanges have grown enormously in recent years. i think it is very good that the political dimension is receiving so much attention, and i will give one example. the african continent: it has to be that we continue to challenge china on its african policy, and we now have a framework in which to do that. i am glad that mr michel will be going to beijing shortly to do that. and i think it's a very good thing that we are also working together more and more economically. but i am very concerned about imbalances in that economic relationship. i do not find it wrong, for example, that we should transfer much more of our experience of the internal market to the chinese, who can still do a great deal to improve their market in this respect. the same applies to regional policy, to the elimination of regional disparities. we have experience in that. we've learned things about that. i'm sure the chinese aren't too keen on joining in. mr mandelson also pointed out that there is a great deal of uncertainty for investors in china and that this is detrimental to our exports to china, but also to the development of the chinese economy. i think he's right. you need the rule of law, security, for a thriving economy. whether it's about intellectual property, whether it's about product safety, whether it's about capital management. but of course you also need the rule of law when it comes to individual human rights. that's just as important, if not more important. i am glad that we are getting a report on the human rights dialogue. i think we should get that every time. i see, like you, commissioner, some positive signs, but we as the european parliament must continue to emphasize a number of things that are not there: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we as a european parliament must continue to emphasize this, and this is a daily task.
with all due respect, mr president, i would still like you to explain to us how it is that people from your own group and also people who seem to be better interpreters of your ideas are given much more extra speaking time and are not quickly taken off the floor, while people with whom you seem to disagree are taken off the floor after 10 seconds. i think that there are two measures and two weights here, which are unacceptable.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, does the european textile industry have a future? the answer lies to a large extent with the european commission. last month in beijing, commissioner mandelson strongly denounced the lack of product safety, the huge influx of counterfeit products and the dumping of chinese exports. he has rightly threatened to complain to the wto. europe imports half a billion goods from china every day, and eight out of ten counterfeits intercepted originate from that country. but in addition to counterfeiting, the european textile industry is also suffering today from the low dollar exchange rate. the weak dollar not only mortgages our exports, but gives countries that continue to use the dollar as a currency an artificial advantage. coincidentally, these countries are mostly in asia, and, less coincidentally, china is holding on to the dollar. for the textile sector, which is working with large volumes and low profit margins, this is unsustainable. our industry cannot and must not be the victim of a strong european currency. hence the need to use the euro more and more in our trade relations. that, i thought, was one of the reasons why we introduced our common currency five years ago.
president, commissioner, thank you for your clear intervention. i have two remarks to make to you. the textile industry is not only important for southern europe, but a country like belgium also has a very flourishing textile industry, which still accounts for 25,000 jobs today. if the quotas for the 10 finished products disappear on 1 january, commissioner, this will have serious consequences not only for the sectors concerned but also for the companies upstream. take the jeans industry, for example. if it is flooded with chinese products, whether or not at dumped prices, then the producers of denim fabrics and yarns will also be directly affected. the effects are therefore of course much wider ranging than might at first appear. a second comment, commissioner, is that the so-called monitoring system is only monitoring the volumes of imported products for the time being. it would be much more efficient to check also on the basis of prices, and a priori, i mean at the moment when the licences are delivered. only then can we have a truly proactive and preventive approach. and by the way, mr mandelson, we would also like to hear from you when the commission will take action. that's a little confusing and foggy right now. in other words, from what growth in imports from china on the one hand and from what fall in the price of imported products from china on the other, will you actually take action? it seems to us, commissioner, only logical that we should also be given prior clarification on this point.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). it is a country that arouses sympathy by its proximity to the most backward and totalitarian communist regime in the world. trade relations have grown considerably in recent years, which is in itself a very positive thing, but that does not mean that there are no problems. if we are to conclude a free trade agreement with south korea, it must be based on complete reciprocity. there are still far too many tariff and non-tariff barriers in south korea to be able to speak of genuine reciprocity. the european side must be urged to remove all these obstacles and we must be able to reach agreements at least as beneficial as those of the free trade agreement between south korea on the one hand and the united states on the other.
president. - i have not voted in favour of the resolution on the european-chinese dialogue on human rights for a number of reasons. i think, in particular, that we have already adopted more than enough strong texts in this hemisphere, and that these strong texts and statements are rarely, if ever, followed by action by the european institutions. the olympic games are soon to be held in beijing, and once again the european elites will be drumming to win the favour of the chinese rulers. and this is already apparent from this resolution, which, by the way, makes a lot of sensible points, but which also claims that the recent chinese communist party congress - i quote - 'opened up prospects for better respect for human rights'. what a worldly strangeness of this parliament. because the reality in beijing today is intimidation, deportations, arrests and labor camps. the european union's double standards in its relations with china must now be put to an end.
mr president, that is the way it is in this parliament. if you are not mr schulz, you must use the explanations of vote to express your opinion. this parliament has once again periodically laid its eggs on the so-called necessary fight against so-called extremism. but it's not about the real extremism and the real violence, for example, of islam coming into europe. no, it is once again about the limitation of the freedom of expression of people who are peacefully standing up for the right to ownership, for the right to protect and preserve our languages, our identities, our cultures, our freedom. it is tragic that this parliament is constantly talking about freedom and human rights, but at the same time imposing the worst and most far-reaching muzzleloaders on people who hold different views and who, for example, do not simply worship the sacred cow of the so-called multicultural society, as the rest of this parliament does. i am not concerned about this resolution and i believe that freedom is impossible without complete freedom of political expression.
mr president, i also voted against the resolution on extremism. not because i feel that term is offensive, on the contrary, but because here, for the umpteenth time, a conscious amalgamation is being made of a legitimate political discourse against further mass immigration and for a coherent policy of adaptation on the one hand, and extremism and violence on the other. the title of the resolution is misleading and tendentious. left-wing extremism is something that cannot exist by definition, and nobody here has heard of the rise of muslim fundamentalism. this is kafka. it would be funny if it wasn't so sad. if you don't follow the political correctness, you're criminalised. perhaps someone could explain how this relates to the charter of fundamental rights which we signed yesterday.
i too voted against this resolution with all my heart, mr president, because if the fox preaches passion, the farmer will watch his geese. i have rarely seen a more hypocritical document than this motion for a resolution on so-called emerging extremism in europe. and god knows that in europe and in this european parliament some records have already been broken in the field of hypocrisy. because, of course, as my colleagues have already said, there is no such thing as left-wing extremism. of course, islamic extremism is not singled out either. the suburbs of paris are burning, but the problem is apparently that small nonconformist minority, which has become the louse in the fur of this institution above the people. perhaps we should open the gates of the gulag again to those who still dare to express any criticism of the european religion and of the sacred multicultural society. complete with an inquisition court and exile to devil's island for the heretics. only then will europe be cleansed of its last critics and can the euro-religion continue its work of conversion unhindered.
madam president, the resumption of fighting between rebel and government forces in chad has left hundreds of people dead and wounded and has led to renewed tensions in the border region of sudan and the central african republic. this has de facto restricted access to the refugee camps to thousands of people and made the task of humanitarian workers considerably more difficult. i would also remind you that at the present time, in that part of the world, women and children are still the victims of particularly heinous violence and that there are already more than 450 000 displaced persons living in terrible conditions precisely where the fighting has resumed. in such a context, we can of course demand that the belligerents cease all fighting, especially when civilian populations are affected. we also ask them to respect the basic principles of international humanitarian law, which implies respecting humanitarian space and allowing aid to pass through, and not to harm humanitarian personnel. in general, we are particularly concerned about the fact that humanitarian law is increasingly being flouted, if not totally ignored, by the parties to the conflict. the european union will have to react specifically to this worrying development. we also call on the chadian authorities to make every effort to systematically prosecute those responsible for rape, war crimes and all forms of serious human rights violations. but our message is also, and above all, addressed to the european union and in particular to the council of ministers, from whom we are probably more likely to be heard and to whom we ask to take responsibility. on 15 october the council adopted a joint action under the eufor operation in chad and the central african republic to ensure the protection of civilians, the delivery of humanitarian aid and the security of local and expatriate humanitarian personnel. only two months later, the deployment of eufor troops has still not materialized due to lack of sufficient means and equipment. this is unacceptable and it is therefore urgent that the council and the commission speed up the decision-making process so that this operation can be carried out as quickly as possible. i would also like to stress that no peacekeeping mission in eastern chad and northern central african republic will be effective without a comprehensive reconciliation process involving the whole region. it is already known that the presence of eufor at the gates of sudan will make it more difficult for the rebels to move freely across the borders and will therefore cause some attacks to be relocated. the urgent and indispensable support that the european union has committed itself to provide could therefore also prove to be insufficient very quickly. it is therefore also essential that the union should make every effort now to promote the resumption of peace talks at regional level, in partnership with all the parties to the conflict and the various representatives of the international community. in conclusion, i would like to stress that we consider the neutrality of the european force to be particularly important and strategic in this respect. we know that rebels have already threatened to target it if it is merely a disguised french mission, so we ask the other member states to participate massively in the composition of this force so that it is clear to everyone that it is indeed a european force.
president. - the european and african summit took place in lisbon last weekend and was intended to lay the foundations for a new partnership between europe and africa. a partnership which, according to the joint declaration of the european parliament and the pan-african parliament, was to be based on shared values and principles, such as democracy, human rights and good governance. but unfortunately, the attitude of europe towards figures like mugabe in zimbabwe and gaddafi in libya - to name just two - both of whom were greeted with the red carpet - proves that there is still a gap between declarations of principle and reality. the situation in chad today also shows abundantly that a large part of africa is far from ready to be part of this so-called community of values. so if we as europeans are to maintain the credibility of our discourse on human rights and not be guided solely by realpolitik, intervention must indeed send a clear signal that lawlessness and arbitrariness must be replaced as soon as possible by the most basic democratic principles. unfortunately, the assessment of chad applies to many other regimes in africa. chad's not the only one sick in this bed.
madam president, just to correct what you said before the last speech: the socialist group spoke through me, i spoke as the author and on behalf of the socialist group. i would not like to give the impression that we are not interested in this question.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, the discussion we are having here today on saudi arabia, and in particular the deplorable legal situation of women, should really be extended to a large part of the islamic world. because only a few, like the dutch ayaan hirsi ali, dare to say it out loud. the discrimination and subjugation of women is ingrained in the sacred texts of islam itself. discrimination against women in saudi arabia and almost the entire muslim world finds its basis and justification in the koran. that is the first fundamental truth we must dare to face in this debate. we have seen this recently in sudan, where a 54-year-old teacher was sentenced to 15 days in prison for mentioning a teddy bear as mohammed, before being pardoned under pressure from international diplomacy. in saudi arabia, a 20-year-old woman is gang-raped, but is herself convicted. it couldn't be more symbolic. but of course the saudis are allies of the us and they're allowed a little more. because, like china, saudi arabia is a rich country and we dare to be a little less principled when the great principles we have talked about so often this week are at stake. europe should therefore also ask washington to put its full weight behind the improvement of the situation in saudi arabia.
