the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can express my deep concern on behalf of the council at the second death sentence handed down on 19 december 2006 to five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor. i would remind you that in its statement of 19 december 2006 the presidency of the council condemned that judgment and at the same time expressed the council's hope that the supreme court, which had been re-opened to the case, would review this court decision swiftly. in this context, it should be noted that this is a long-standing case, dating back to 1999. the medical staff have been in prison for seven years now. the first death sentence was pronounced on 6 may 2004. it was then quashed on 25 december 2005 by the supreme court, which reopened the case. i would also like to say that throughout the process the council has called on the libyan authorities to do their utmost to ensure a fair and just trial. at the same time, the council noted that it had very strong doubts about the validity of the allegations on the basis of which the medical staff were prosecuted and that it also had serious concerns about the conditions of detention and the unjustified delay in the proceedings. in this context, i would like to say that the council was deeply concerned by the tragedy of aids in benghazi and has expressed its deep sympathy to the victims and their families on every occasion. at the same time, however, i would like to emphasize that the council has supported the hiv action plan and the international benghazi fund with all its means in a spirit of solidarity and for humanitarian purposes, and always in close coordination with the commission and with the support of international partners. i would also like to recall the council's position on its relations with libya, which is already contained in the council conclusions of october 2004. the council called on libya to respond positively to the european union's policy of engagement, recalling the council's wish that libya respond to the eu's concerns, in particular in the case of medical personnel. we note with interest the points raised by parliament in its resolution. we would also like to point out that the council shares the concerns expressed and assure parliament that the council, together with the presidency, continues to give high priority to the matter. we also want to reassure you that the council will spare no effort to find the most satisfactory solution to the problem on a humanitarian basis.
the commission's vice-president madam president, i congratulate you on your brilliant election, ladies and gentlemen, and following what the council has just told us in the person of mr gloser, i will try to inform parliament of the latest developments in the problem of the death sentences handed down to bulgarian and palestinian medical personnel in libya on 19 december. i will share with you some of the commission's assessment. as you have just recalled, mr minister, the libyan supreme court had overturned the first death sentence on 25 december 2005 and ordered a new trial. the new trial ended on 19 december 2006 with the confirmation of the death sentences of the five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. according to the libyan authorities, the supreme court will reopen the case in the coming weeks. the legal proceedings are therefore not closed and are still ongoing. however, on 30 december last, the libyan president made public statements re-launching the thesis of an international conspiracy against libya, which caused widespread concern. in parallel with the judicial procedure, political consultations are under way to resolve this problem on the basis of humanitarian principles, taking into account the suffering of the infected children and the medical staff. what is the intended outcome? the aim is to ensure that the children and their families receive adequate medical treatment and financial support and to secure the release of the medical staff. in this context, an international fund for benghazi was created. the fund receives contributions in cash or in the form of services, equipment or services from public and private donors. it will provide three actions: improved medical care for aids in libya, treatment abroad for sick children and financial support for each family. it should also be noted that childcare is already provided thanks to the solidarity of several member states and the european commission and to funds made available to families by the libyan government. the commission naturally considers this matter to be a very high priority. it is putting all the resources, all the effort, into finding a solution. we have ensured that technical and medical assistance is provided to the hospital in benghazi, where the infection has manifested itself in children. this work started in september 2005 and is ongoing. it has improved the quality of treatment and improved practices within the hospital. at the same time, the commission is actively involved in the political consultations mentioned above. of course, we were very disappointed that the death sentence could be decided a second time. it is true that this is the responsibility of the libyan judicial authorities, but at the same time we have initiated a dialogue between the parties concerned and we believe that the strategy for resolving this crisis must be defined in the framework of this dialogue. the commission remains fully engaged in this process. in conclusion, and to echo the minister representing the german presidency, the dialogue is still ongoing. but it is true that this is a very sensitive issue, which requires discretion on the part of the european union, without, however, failing to be firm on the need to secure the release of the bulgarian and palestinian medical personnel. we also believe that it is necessary to demonstrate the solidarity of the european institutions with the medical staff, while taking great care not to jeopardize the progress of the negotiations and not to affect the climate of the discussions with libya by improvised measures. i can simply confirm, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission is very much committed to continuing its efforts to find a solution to this problem, which, it must be said, has a particularly tragic dimension for the parties concerned and for our bulgarian friends.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. congratulations on your choice. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your willingness to consider this resolution concerning the fate of five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor who have been in a libyan prison for eight years. the authors of this resolution bring to your attention a text which, while expressing our sympathy with the tragedy of libyan children who have fallen victim to the hiv/aids epidemic, at the same time categorically rejects the death penalty, proposes a clear commitment of the european parliament to the fate of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor and calls for concrete action by the other european institutions in this direction. a resolution of the european parliament is a political act. this act is necessary because, as the representative of the commission said, on a number of occasions the libyan leadership has referred to this trial in purely political terms. for eight long years, the detention, which began with torture, gradually developed into a trial, which was held in a non-transparent way, with violations of the general rules of procedure and with a defiant disregard for the conclusions of leading medical experts in the field regarding the matter. the political character of this trial can be easily traced in the fact of the re-indictment, in which it was claimed that this was a conspiracy inspired by the cia and mossad, which shows the rhetoric of hatred, a rhetoric which is typical of either totalitarian regimes or pieces of art with conspiracy theory and an anti-systemic approach. it has become clear that the epidemic started in libya long before the bulgarian nurses stepped on libyan soil. this has been proven by leading experts in the field, in their conclusions, which, as i said, have been neglected. last but not least, the most sacred duty of state institutions is to defend their citizens. the bulgarian nurses are citizens of the european union, so please stand in their defence. (applause) thank you very much.
on behalf of the pse group. thank you, madam chair, and congratulations on your selection. to mr. barrow, i'd like to say that i'm not particularly impressed with the tone of his statement. these delicate, sensitive issues you've been talking about, mr. barrow, are not helping us in this case, and it seems to me that we need to think seriously about this matter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all those who supported the initiative to hold the debate on this burning issue during the first part-session of the year. i'm sure that a number of speakers today will touch upon the drastic violations of our nurses' human rights, severe torture and the forced signing of confessions in arabic without interpreters. in general, we're discussing an eight-year farce involving the libyan justice system and the political nature of this human agony. however, i feel that it is now time to take stock of all this and state clearly that, despite all the efforts of the council and the commission, and despite long negotiations, for which i am deeply grateful, the results are appalling. the libyan regime is, like every dictatorial regime, afraid of its people. it is afraid to admit that the hiv epidemic and the tragic deaths of so many children are caused by its health care system. as has been pointed out, although the charges of a plot were dropped at a certain time, libyan officials and even colonel gaddafi himself have recently continued to blame certain western countries and their secret services for a plot. he says he's not interested in the fate of the nurses; he's interested in the countries that were behind the plot. he is skillfully maneuvering for compensation, which will convince his people of european and american guilt. he says there is no money in the specially created humanitarian fund, as he does not care about the significant resources already spent by the european union or the treatment of infected libyan children. if this absurd and monstrous charge of a plot to infect and kill hundreds of children a crime against humanity is still being made, why not challenge the libyan authorities to create an international criminal court on this? why not challenge them to seize the un security council? we are not afraid of justice. the pressure on libya so far has borne no fruit. i fully support the text in the resolution that, in the absence of positive developments in this case, a review of the policy towards libya should be absolutely necessary. libya should very soon understand that there cannot be business as usual. otherwise, cynical voices will claim that, whenever it smells of oil or gas, governments are tempted to forget about human rights.
let me congratulate you on your choice. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the european parliament who have been following this matter closely since 2004, even before we joined. together with mrs catherine guy-quint, we have raised the question on several occasions in the joint parliamentary committee. mr van orden, as rapporteur for bulgaria, has put it to you on several occasions. we now have the unique opportunity, with full unanimity, i hope, since the draft resolution is supported by all the political forces, to show the libyan side that the european parliament stands behind the five european citizens and the palestinian doctor, that the european parliament upholds the values of humanity, of human rights and i will say clearly and precisely, regardless of the diplomatic procedures, the negotiations, that we are in favour of the immediate release of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. i think that the power of a european parliament resolution, the power of what ngos are doing, will actually be able to influence this attitude towards bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor, who have nothing to do with legality and humanity. i hope that our collective voice will have a real impact on the freedom of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. thank you, madam chairman.
there is something symbolic in the fact that at the first session of the european parliament since bulgaria's accession to the european union, we are discussing an issue that puts to the test the readiness of the european institutions, the european governments, the european peoples in general, to fight for the values on which our union is built. because the confirmed death sentences of five bulgarian women and one palestinian are a challenge to the democratic world. these death sentences are based on fabricated evidence and false confessions extracted by inhuman torture. they are an attempt to escape the political responsibility of the libyan leadership and gaddafi himself for the dire state of libyan health care. they are an attempt to make one death pay for another death, innocent people pay with their lives for the tragedy of other innocent people. we can't accept that. we have to stop the tyranny. today the voice of the european union must be loud and clear to be heard in tripoli. time is running out, and it's becoming more important that unambiguous statements be followed by unambiguous actions. in recent years, many political leaders have pledged support for the libyan medical community. in parallel, libya was lifted out of isolation and one after another european companies and governments were making billions of dollars in deals with it. there's something hypocritical about that. i ask that today's discussion not be an exercise to reassure our consciences that we have done everything in our power. i ask that you take this discussion to national parliaments and governments, because the lives of six innocent people must be an unavoidable factor in relations with libya. i don't even want to imagine the horror of this parliament starting its session with a minute of silence. thank you. thank you.
i voted for this motion, but i have before me a text that is full of a heavy sentence. there's nothing in it that's really worth saying. this resolution should have been passed before the bulgarian nurses were sentenced to death, not now after the fact. and why, when they were convicted, the top union officials pretended that they had fallen from the sky and that for eight years they had not known that such a thing existed. or maybe it was easier for them to close their eyes because the european countries have a very good trade with libya. i want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are facing a very clear and severe dictatorial regime. and with that kind of regime, the only way you can deal with it is with determination, firmness and steadfastness. that's why i'm calling on all european countries to immediately cut off all trade with libya, which would be putting real pressure on this totalitarian state. in conclusion, i would like to say that if this does not happen, it will mean that a new kind of programme has been found in europe - "oil for human lives".
i would like to inform parliament of the latest developments in the case of the bulgarian doctors in libya. yesterday, a new charge of defamation against their tormentors was brought against the bulgarian nurses. i mean, put another way, now the cynical libyan regime is accusing the bulgarian sisters of being raped and harassed for days and weeks. at the same time, the son of libyan dictator gaddafi, saif al-islam, is roaming the european union's territory unmolested. meanwhile, countries like germany, france and italy trade billions with this dictatorial regime. it's time to end the double standards! it's time to impose real economic sanctions on libya! it's time to boycott the dictator gaddafi! it's time to have no program, i'm against it, and there should be no program "oil for human life". and this parliament must protect that!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of this parliament and all the european institutions to the looming energy crisis in the balkans. albania has a very serious electricity regime, macedonia barely covers its energy needs. bulgaria is no longer an electricity exporter to the balkans. the commission notes that the bulgarian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the project. a new approach is needed by the european institutions to the balkans, a new strategy. units 3 and 4, which were shut down earlier this year and decommissioned, are completely safe, as shown by numerous international studies. a flexible approach is needed. otherwise, these problems will only deepen and only the mild winter so far hides their true scale. this parliament has only voted a few times against the flexible approach to the kozloduy plant, but these possibilities are not exhausted and we must all use them together if we do not want the problems in the balkans to become more serious. projections indicate that there will be even greater shortages of electricity in 2007 and 2008. it is therefore important that the european commission and the other european institutions take a stand.
member of the commission. i would like to say that i am following this issue very closely. i think i was the first person to see the children in benghazi. i had discussions with the families. i then saw the nurses, the palestinian doctor and the leader gaddafi. i would like to confirm that the commission and i, personally, are very much involved in this case. we showed that in our recent report to parliament on 17 january. i can assure you that reaching a satisfactory solution has top priority. we know it is a tragic case. in the meantime, our team of negotiators is engaged in a dialogue with the libyan authorities. this is still open. however, it is also expected that no decision can be taken as long as the judicial procedure is not concluded. there is still one step to go. on the basis of future developments, the commission and the council will then assess the situation anew and decide what further action to take. as i have said, we are involved in a dialogue with the libyan authorities. i must make it clear that libya and the european union are not linked by any international agreement. therefore, there is no framework for official cooperation, except the eu council conclusions of october 2004 that establish a policy of engagement with libya on specific issues, such as hiv/aids and migration.
commissioner, i am grateful to you for all you have done. i am grateful also to all european politicians who have been going to libya non-stop and raising this point. but we can safely say that, after such a long period of time, there is no result. on the contrary: lately, the libyan side – even colonel gaddafi – has been raising non-stop the question of some western plot to kill these children, with our nurses having acted as part of this plot. no one answers these charges and, if you trust the libyan court, we should say that the court decided some years ago that there is no such plot. still it is raised. if it is true, it is a crime against humanity. why do we not challenge the libyan … (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the its group. i think the european union is a union of sovereign states that have come together to cooperate with each other, not to dictate to each other what to do with the fruits of that cooperation. however, i would like to say that the rapporteur's and parliament's reservations are not without foundation, because according to our data 95% of farmers in bulgaria have no idea how to apply for european union funding. the commission notes that the measure is not selective because it does not involve state aid. and the ministry of agriculture has been in the hands of the turkish ethnic party "movement for rights and freedoms" for six years, whose leader is not ashamed to say quite openly that his party has a ring of companies. and so i have absolutely no doubt that this circle will benefit from the voluntary modulation that is now being offered, and that it will subsequently thank its benefactors by making a contribution to the party's black box. i therefore want to say that i cannot support this report because it cuts national powers, but at the same time i believe that there should be much greater control mechanisms on the union's common policy and that instead of development, the lack of such mechanisms will lead to despair, more corruption and social disappointment.
mr. chairman, on the last vote, i abstained on whether to proceed because i don't mind losing my lunch break to vote. but i don't think the way you vote is the best way. i just can't match the speed at which you vote. is this a european and democratic parliament, or is it a communist one, where everyone raises their hand and everything is accepted quickly?
on behalf of the its group. mr commissioner, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent balanced report he has produced, but i must say that after the enlargement of the european union, things are a little different in terms of subsidies outside the european union. what i mean exactly is that eight of the nine romanian regions and five of the six bulgarian regions make up 13 of the 15 poorest regions in the european union as a whole. the report says that more money should be spent on fighting poverty, but what can i say, coming from a country where pensioners live on less than 50 euros a month and there are two million pensioners? what can we say, from the point of view of the development of education and health care, when we see that in countries like bulgaria, health workers and teachers receive monthly salaries of 150-200 euros, and this is about the high salaries in these sectors. this is why it is necessary to be very careful when it comes to granting subsidies outside the european union. let's stop trying to pull the speck out of someone else's eye and not notice the beam in our own. i would like to join the calls made by my colleagues so far for the development of a very specific mechanism to ensure full control by the commission and the union institutions over the funds allocated to development aid outside the european union. because very often, when these funds go to countries that are politically unstable with the resulting economic and social problems, it gives the impression that the union is bribing the rulers of those countries to secure their obedience or their protection of human rights, which is not right. and all too often, these funds are not going to fight the poverty of ordinary people, but to fight the poverty of the very elite that governs in these countries. i ask, and i urge the commission and all my colleagues, let us work out a mechanism that is clear and firm so that these funds actually reach the people who need them. and remember that at the moment the union cannot, however, allocate so much money to third countries, because within the union itself there are many regions that are even poorer than the countries for which the funds in question are intended.
my dear mrs. president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, we are discussing a problem which has a major impact on the development of the world economy, particularly affecting the less developed countries, including the new member states of the european union, whose economies are more energy intensive. as socialists, we cannot fail to stress that rising energy prices are exacerbating social hardship and social insecurity among the citizens of the union. although somewhat delayed, the european union needs to take a number of measures in the long and short term to overcome its energy dependence, both in terms of the quantities and the price of imported energy and energy carriers. it is important to support politically and financially major infrastructure projects that will diversify sources and increase entry routes for oil and gas imports. increasing the share of renewable energy and the use of biofuels should be supported, but the process will be slow and our approach must be very pragmatic. i would like to give an example of the energy crisis facing the western balkans. the acute shortage of electricity in some of the countries is coupled with the premature closure of two proven safe nuclear reactors in bulgaria, which is unexplainable from an economic point of view. i hope that the dos santos report will be supported, because the implementation of the measures proposed in it will contribute to economic stability, social security and the external burden of the european union and the member states.
i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted an important report on the balanced sustainable development of society. my congratulations to the rapporteur and to the committee on women's rights and gender equality. from the survey i did, between 50% and 60% of the groups surveyed believe that there is gender equality in the countries of the european union. in my country, that percentage is higher than the average. this, i think, is a formality and for a number of reasons. equality is a matter of public concern and the public is willing to address the issue of using the potential of women and men. in many areas, women are well represented, but unfortunately with lower pay, which some consider equality. they don't know the details of equality policies, participation in decision-making, violence, unequal pay, trafficking, prostitution. the public does not have enough information and i believe that the roadmap will be a document that will give impetus to work on strategies and action plans. we need to get our agendas in order, address the legislative gaps, find the tools to enforce the laws and control their implementation. let us share the responsibility with men for the education of children, the future of our nation, of our european peoples.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we strongly support the commission’s consultation efforts and the european parliament resolution outlining the main priorities for public health in the future community framework. but we should think and plan more broadly: the final goal of future legislation should be better health for european citizens, not only when they cross the border, because by then it might be too late. in addition to the resolution, i would like to call for your support on the following: basic standards for healthcare should be agreed in order to guarantee patients’ safety and the quality of healthcare; the introduction of a common classification of health services, without interfering with member states’ competences on organisation, will create transparency for both patients and the financial institutions; and the ‘one-stop shop’ approach to be introduced in the member states’ health administrations will facilitate patients’ choice and the right to complain. the last issue i wish to emphasise is crucial for the full functioning of any new legislative framework on patients’ rights: a common charter on patients’ rights should be included in the future community framework. patients should be able to exercise their rights in the european union regardless of the ownership of medical facilities, national social security schemes, organisational management of the national health systems or whether medical treatment is provided in the home country or in another member state. all this is needed for a new european regulatory healthcare framework that would contribute to improving access to the best quality healthcare and to ensuring the safety and rights of all public and private patients in europe, with particular consideration given to ethnic minorities – for example the roma population – as well as refugees, migrants and the homeless.
mrs. kuneva, congratulations on your report. you are off to a great start as a european commissioner. i wish you every success. my question to you is how will you deal with the excessive, inhibitive regulations that are presented as consumer protection? and to understand this, i'll give you a specific example from bulgaria. the consumer protection act prohibits paying in advance when ordering goods over the internet. according to the text of the law, the supplier is not entitled to demand or accept payment before seven working days have elapsed from the receipt of the goods by the customer or from the conclusion of the contract. over-regulation is not good for business or for consumers. regulations like this stop many merchants from delivering goods online at all. it's a real drag on small and medium-sized businesses. do you think that measures should be taken at european level to deal with this and other such cases?
on behalf of the its group. in 1878, the treaty of berlin established a 30-year protectorate over bosnia and herzegovina as part of austria-hungary. after this period expired, austria-hungary annexed bosnia and herzegovina. under the paris peace, which ended world war i, these territories were transferred to yugoslavia. with this brief retrospective, i wanted to tell you that all the problems in the balkans are due to the blindness of the great powers who protect their own interests. we cannot impose on the sovereign bosnian nation how to amend its constitution. we cannot directly impose the will of the people on a foreign governor-general to guide the course of this country. i also want to remind you that this report is about bosnia and herzegovina and the violence that was there ten years ago was from both sides. it's not just the serbs. there was violence and bombings by bosniaks. we have to be objective and see all sides of a conflict if we really want to make a difference.
on behalf of the pse group. mr schapira's report, which deserves our admiration for its objectivity and depth, touches on a very important aspect of making european union development policy a factor of growth and social progress in developing countries. the european union, as the largest global donor, can reasonably be expected to set the standards for providing international aid, including through direct budget financing to developing countries. bilateral partnership agreements with assisted countries, where support is woven into a system of socio-economic and political measures, contribute to the sustainable democratic development of those countries and lead to poverty reduction and respect for human and minority rights. the advantages of this aid are linked to the application of the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. decisions are taken as close as possible to the beneficiaries. but of course budget support also carries some risks, which are linked to corruption and lack of financial absorption capacity. these risks are largely overcome when relying on a greater link with local authorities, when taking into account the decentralisation in the governance of the relevant developing country. bulgaria has only recently become a member of the european union and could not give advice on how to organise european development aid, but what has been done in our country can be taken into account when looking for analogues in the most efficient use of community funds. in my opinion, our experience in setting up regional associations of municipalities that support regional authorities in the development and implementation of regional development programmes would be particularly useful. this can be used in particular in the implementation of general budget support. as regards sectoral budget support, we also have some experience, mainly in the use of the sapard programme, where it relies on the support of industry associations and ngos. it is important that the views of consumers and their associations are also taken into account in the sectoral support. once again, the report deserves our admiration and i assume that the commission, on the basis of the recommendations in paragraph 18, will do what is necessary to support associations of local authorities in the use of budgetary aid.
mr president, bulgarian citizens and a number of human rights and professional organisations have marked the seven years since the detention of the five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor sentenced to death by the libyan court with mass public appearances and demonstrations. the european parliament resolution of 18 january and the general affairs council conclusions of 22 january and 22 february express the concern of the european institutions and the member states about the situation of bulgarian doctors. the solidarity of the member states and the constant concern of the european institutions are the basis for solving the issue of bulgarian nurses. the single european position, which we hope the european union and the member states will have worked out by the end of this month, can become the basis for talks with the libyan side to close the case. i am confident, mr president, that the european parliament, the council of ministers and the european commission will continue to work together to resolve the issue of bulgarian nurses in libya.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the impression that the european commissioner, mr lászló kovacs, has decided to raise all the possible minimum excise duties, starting with alcohol and continuing with diesel. on 13 march, the european commission adopted a proposal to amend directive 96/9/ec by increasing the minimum excise duty on diesel from eur 302 to eur 380 per thousand litres. the commission considers that the increase in the excise duty is in the interest of the environment. in its analysis, the commission fails to note that countries such as bulgaria and romania have not yet reached the current minimum excise duty levels and a new increase is proposed. if this proposal is accepted, bulgaria will have to increase the excise duty on diesel by 40%. this would lead to an increase in the prices of basic consumer goods that is absolutely out of proportion to the growth of incomes in bulgaria. such a price increase would lead to euroscepticism, especially in the eastern part of the european union, and problems with the adoption of the euro. the european parliament must firmly oppose such an unfounded proposal.
in a modern democratic society, the media and their freedom is something very important. their influence on society is so great that we often refer to them as the fourth estate. i take the floor on mr schulz's statement, which affected me personally, on freedom of the press. because we know that in modern democracy the main characteristic of any power is that it is controlled in some way to prevent abuse of it. and to better describe to you what the special case mr. schultz had in mind in bulgaria... (mr stoyanov and interrupted by the president)
regarding rule 145 of the rules of procedure. (mr stoyanov is interrupted by the chairman)
i disagree, mr. chairman, because my answer requires clarification of the circumstances so that i can refute the allegations... (mr stoyanov is interrupted by the chairman)
so this is a dictatorship, mr. chairman. (mr stoyanov is interrupted by the chairman) there is no freedom of speech in this parliament. there is no freedom of speech in this parliament. (mr stoyanov is interrupted by the chairman) that's freedom of speech in this parliament. the floor is taken without giving the opportunity... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank mr tabajdi for the excellent work he has done as rapporteur. i have read the contents of his report with great interest: i found it very informative for my country, bulgaria, and also significant for the difficulties the ten new member states had to face in coming into contact with the cap. during the preaccession period, bulgaria, like the other 10 acceding countries, made significant efforts to transpose the acquis communautaire and to establish the institutional framework necessary for the application of the cap. partnership programmes funded by the european union have provided valuable assistance in achieving this objective. however, it must be admitted that farmers and rural society in bulgaria are not prepared for the new opportunities and challenges that have emerged. the european union has given aid to the agricultural development of my country. however, the complexity of the requirements to be met and the accumulated delay in decisions meant that the sapard programme started with considerable delay and that a significant part of the allocations will only be used after accession. with the help of direct payments, rural development measures and state aid schemes for agriculture, bulgaria, like the 10 new member states, can establish a system better suited to the development of its agriculture and rural society. however, some rules need to be further simplified. finally, in bulgaria, as in the other ten countries, we also regret the gradual introduction of direct payments. but we do not want to call them into question, because that is an irrevocable commitment made in the accession treaty. i therefore suggest that you approve this report by mr tabajdi, because i think it is very objective, it gives a good account of the difficulties faced by the ten new member states and it makes recommendations to help improve the reform of the cap.
i never thought i'd say this, but i completely agree with mr kazak's statement, with the small addition that for six years the ministry of agriculture in bulgaria has been held by a minister from his party. why didn't you do it, mr. kazak, so that the bulgarian producers would know how to claim the money they are owed by the european union. for ten years, bulgarians were deceived with the blessings that awaited them in the european union, and instead they ended up with cruel quotas and a terrible bureaucracy that threatens to completely destroy small producers in bulgaria. until the common agricultural policy is made accessible to all ordinary people without unnecessary administrative obstacles, i cannot in any way call it a common policy.
i voted against the report on the future of kosovo because i was tired of hearing about how badly and discriminated against albanians. nobody has calculated how many serbs were killed and driven out of kosovo by albanian thugs. how many orthodox churches have been destroyed and turned into warehouses and stables by these drug traffickers, which is the main thing they do, drug trafficking. i want to remind you of the year '99, because we are now facing the brightest christian holiday for orthodox christians, easter. ∀99 nato bombers trampled and desecrated this christian holiday, not stopping their bombing, but continuing to drop their cluster bombs, designed not to destroy infrastructure but to kill people, and inscribed with insults against orthodox christianity. europe must stop meddling in the balkans, because it only causes worse things. leave the balkans alone.
mr. kovacs, mr. chairman, i'm not satisfied with your answer. i get the impression that you've decided to raise all the excise rates. there are already your proposals for higher excise duties on alcohol products and on diesel. income levels in countries such as bulgaria and romania are more than ten times lower than in the 'old' eu member states. this creates a disproportionately higher tax burden and serious incentives for tax avoidance and a grey economy. so these ideas of increasing the excise tax will lead to even more serious protests, protests that are already a fact in bulgaria. there were rallies, there were signatures against the increase in excise taxes. the proposals you have put forward are not justified. i don't see the economic logic behind it. they will only lead to even higher incentives for tax evasion. for example, consider that for 15 years excise duty rates on alcoholic products have not brought about convergence of levels. for 15 years. so what you're doing is not going to have any effect.
mr. chairman, in april 1876 the bulgarian people rose up to reject turkish slavery. soon the city of batac joined this popular uprising. in early may, turkish militia called "bashibozuk" killed 8,000 of the city's nine thousand population, and on may 17, 1876, killed 3,000 women, children and old men who had gathered and taken refuge in the city's church. an international european commission of inquiry has identified these atrocities that were committed in batak and other rebel cities such as perushitsa, kopriushitsa, kotel, klitsura and others. this commission was chaired by the american journalist-correspondent of british newspapers mcgahan, who described these atrocities in his book "the turkish atrocities in bulgaria". today, however, there are attempts to deny this genocide, to erase it. so political correctness is forcing me to stand up and say here in front of everyone that i will make a written declaration in which i want parliament to recognize this genocide of the bulgarians and condemn any attempt to deny it.
mr president, i too would like to thank mrs vergnaud for the wonderful cooperation we enjoyed in the preparation of this report. this parliament recently adopted a resolution on cross-border healthcare and today we are discussing another one. why? because, as access to healthcare and health services becomes an issue for europe, the exclusion of health services from the services directive set us an urgent task to ensure that in future legislation people will have access to healthcare regardless of state borders. the court of justice decision clearly recognised the application of internal market principles and freedoms when patients seek treatment abroad. we should secure common levels of safety and quality of health services and implementation in practice of patients’ and citizens’ rights across the eu. patients’ rights should be part of future community health legislation. we should recognise the two dimensions of cross-border mobility and ensure that unjustified delays for patients and healthcare professionals will be removed. patients should have access to innovative treatments and technologies for their health. we should govern the process and create an empowering environment for it. legal certainty is needed in medical practice, as is right of establishment to guarantee high-level safety and quality standards. current eu legislation does not cover the regulatory gap. the commission should introduce an initiative that observes the above-mentioned principles.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the arguments used by the socialists and by the honourable commissioner kovács have one major problem, and that is the following: they say: 'when excise duties are set centrally in brussels, there are no health problems. however, when you give each country the right to determine its own excise duty, then there are big health problems. that's a flimsy argument, typical of people who have a centralized mindset. the parties have more information, are better aware of their problems and can better deal with the setting of excise duty rates. why do you think that when brussels sets centralized excise duties, things look better? i don't understand that logic. the other very important thing: health problems depend on education, on information campaigns, and much less on taxes. the income gap between eastern and western europe is very large. how do you, with 10 times the income gap, set a minimum tax rate so that everyone is happy? that obviously can't happen. in countries like bulgaria and romania, the current excise tax represents about 70% of the final price plus vat, which creates a huge incentive for the 'grey economy', meaning production that is not accounted for at all by the state. this 'grey economy' will spread to other eu member states. so there can be no talk and there should be no talk about raising the excise rates. on the contrary, each country should be given the right to set its own excise duty rates according to its own traditions and national characteristics. that's the sensible, rational proposition. we fully support the entire bulgarian delegation in the people's party behind mrs lulling's proposal, which is extremely reasonable. this is a piece of legislation that hasn't worked for 15 years. it's obviously unnecessary, and if we have the courage and the guts, we have to say, "yes, it's not working". and it has to be stopped. it is no accident that the european commission has launched an initiative to repeal these redundant directives. here's an example of an unnecessary directive. do you have the courage to stop it? it's the only solution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we can call this report a successful, pragmatic step in establishing more lasting trade and economic relations with russia. the important energy section should also be considered as supporting individual agreements of eu member states with russia, such as the burgas-alexandropolis oil pipeline, which will transport energy raw materials. this project involves two european union member states, bulgaria and greece. it is of particular interest to the countries that have signed it, but also to the european union as a whole. for this reason, the project should receive the union's support. it is very important, however, to stress that both russia and the european union must seriously assess the environmental impact of the project and invest in technologies to protect it, as the pipeline passes through the sensitive black sea area. the project will bring economic growth to the region, but in no case should it close down other sectors, such as tourism, in the burgas bay area, through which the transfer of raw materials will take place. the pipeline route must be carefully planned and the layers of cultural and historical heritage must be protected. it'll increase his overall security. the european union's support will be a guarantee of its perspective with a view to the sustainable development of the region. the black sea area is of particular interest for the development of other relations with russia, such as economic zones. these are investments that will contribute to strong economic growth, especially investments in trade and production capacity. cooperation with the european union and russia must also involve partnership in the creation and application of new technologies, new materials, which are of particular interest to both parties.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i take the floor now to focus your attention on the huge scandal that has been going on in bulgaria for the past few weeks. a dismissed employee of the national guard service cites facts that bulgarian politicians are followed by this service, which is directly subordinate to the president of the republic of bulgaria georgi parvanov. a while ago, mr. pöttering, you took parvanov in, despite the explicit warning of my colleague dimitar stoyanov that you were meeting with a former state security agent. now it turns out that this agent of state security and his friend, the minister of the interior of the republic of bulgaria, rumen petkov, are monitoring and listening to bulgarian politicians. i, as the representative of the most powerful opposition party in our country, ataka, express my outrage at this occasion - the surveillance and eavesdropping on the chairman of ataka - mr. volen siderov. these are not empty assertions. these are facts reported by lieutenant colonel nikolai markov, former nso officer. we at ataka insist on clarifying every detail of this ugly case and that's why we demanded the hearing of all parties in the bulgarian parliament. the authorities at home have again denied what comes to confirm once again their involvement in this case. finally, mr president, i would like to call on you as the head of this esteemed institution, the european parliament, to use your influence and authority with the authorities in bulgaria to put an end to these illegal and undemocratic actions.
member of the commission. i would say that this is one of the important reasons for having this black sea synergy cooperation and for having the economic council of the black sea as the instrument for bringing this cooperation forward. we would like to see, on the one hand, our partner countries, the neighbourhood countries and, on the other hand, our own member states, working closely together with the candidate country, that is turkey, but then particularly also with the strategic partner, i.e. russia. we are at the very beginning of this new policy and i think this policy has to grow. there was a very important meeting in istanbul which i hope henceforth will provide the opportunity for intensifying and deepening our cooperation. however, i think that it is too early to make an assessment just now. now is the time to go forward and see what we can achieve, but this is clearly the intention.
member of the commission. mr president, the case of the bulgarian and palestinian medical personnel is one of my top priorities. during the visit to libya, together with foreign minister steinmeier, who was at that time the president-in-office of the council, we recorded progress in the discussions with the libyan authorities and with the representatives of the children’s families. it appears that we are now getting closer to finding a solution based on human solidarity that might produce results. the families and the government have been constructive, and we have confirmed our readiness to take into consideration continuing the benghazi action plan in favour of the children and, in particular, in favour of the benghazi centre for infectious diseases and immunology. now we are waiting for the verdict of the supreme court that is expected tomorrow, on 11 july, but this will not be the end because another step is planned before the libyan high judicial council. we are in very close contact with the libyan authorities and of course we hope that there will be a positive outcome to the story, but we are not there yet.
commissioner, thank you and the german presidency for the enormous effort you have put in. you, commissioner, have described these negotiations as delicate. you usually say that a lot. in fact, the european commission has been patient and sensitive. the libyan regime, which has so far refused to look into the real cause of the aids epidemic, has shown no sensitivity and has taken long-term hostages to do so. he has been drastically violating the human rights of european citizens for 8 years now and is developing his convenient thesis about the independent libyan judiciary. and it is as independent as, for example, the libyan media, which during this period did not dare to present the other point of view, unlike the bulgarian and european media. i asked you about the political assessment because this process is political. it is logical that the court hearing in libya tomorrow and its decision, as well as all decisions so far, should be the responsibility of the libyan authorities. i would like to ask you: do you have an alternative plan of action (the president is trying to interrupt it) if libya continues to use the negotiations to prolong the agony of the nurses and the palestinian doctor?
on behalf of the its group. first of all, to the commissioner, i want to say that macedonia has not been a unitary state for a long time. macedonia has fallen victim to a terrorist gang, to an international conspiracy against it, to a gang of drug traffickers supported by the international community, who wave the flag of greater albanian chauvinism and radical islam. macedonia, with the so-called ohrid framework agreement, was imposed a dictate that does not exist anywhere else at the moment in any democratic country, not in this parliament, not anywhere, thank god. the dictates of a small community over the will of the many in this country. i would also like to make a point to the rapporteur. unfortunately, you have to try a little bit harder to get familiar with the history, because in macedonia, you get some idea, but in macedonia, they don't speak macedonian. and i'll explain this by the fact that you mentioned that in 1878 85% of the population identified themselves as bulgarians. macedonia should come to the european union. i support her joining so she can get some justice in the end.
ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the progress of the republic of macedonia in a more optimistic atmosphere: the european council has already paved the way for the institutional reform which is a prerequisite for any future enlargement. during its short existence as a state, macedonia has gone through various crises and many difficulties, but has retained its stability and its opportunities for development and prosperity. it is this vitality and future prospects that should be a source of self-confidence for macedonian citizens, not the falsified history or the appropriated foreign historical figures and symbols. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime. there is much to be desired in this direction and i draw the attention of several colleagues from the green group to the fact that by fighting for the rights of a non-existent macedonian minority in bulgaria, for example, they are actually giving "food" to nationalists on both sides of the border and are worsening the country's prospects. it is particularly important for european socialists to preserve inter-ethnic dialogue and also to give priority to solving problems such as unemployment, outdated infrastructure and regional imbalances. in conclusion, i would like to stress that we will support the reforms in the republic of macedonia and hope that the country will start accession negotiations with the european union as early as the first half of 2008.
bulgaria experienced the horror of forest fires in 2000, when very high temperatures in bulgaria caused numerous forest fires. unfortunately, there was another impression at that time - the impression that many people who wanted to carry out illegal activity used the heat to set fire to the forest, with the aim of then cutting down and exporting the protected forests that had already burned (under the pretext that it was a natural disaster) from bulgaria and their wood was used. in the last two years, the problem in bulgaria from the point of view of natural disasters has been floods. this was in 2005, when literally our entire country was flooded. about a quarter of the population was then either directly or indirectly affected by the floods. this year there was again a high risk of flooding following a major drought which destroyed most of the bulgarian harvest and severely affected farmers. then floods followed. then again, right now, bulgaria is having a major drought. it's very close to greece. the first forest fires in bulgaria have also appeared and the situation is becoming serious. two years ago, in 2005 (the great floods i mentioned), bulgaria, although it was not yet a member of the european union, used european funds, used european aid, used funds, including funds, received funds from the solidarity fund. but i want to support mr. karatsaferis in something very important. because i never saw the result. and nobody in bulgaria actually saw what the result of this european funding was. we received funds from the european union, but two years later, the threat of a natural disaster of the same magnitude as the one in 2005 came up again. there was flooding again, again there was a risk of dam rupture and a significantly greater aggravation of the situation. only the weather changed, the rain stopped, the sun came out, the heat came back, and he didn't let that happen. i mean, what i mean is that the bulgarian government, which has been in power since 2005, has received some european funds from the solidarity fund, but i don't see them being used. and i would like the commission, which gives money, especially to the new member states, to monitor very carefully how it is used, because there may be people in the administration who are not in good faith and who want to use these funds for purposes other than those for which they were allocated. i therefore call on the commission to exercise greater control over the funds it allocates in connection with natural disasters.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs geringer de oedenberg on her excellent report. these regions face a dual challenge in the implementation of the eu regional policy to absorb properly the allocated funds and to achieve the outcomes which are set in the aims for economic and social cohesion. special measures for these regions should be taken by the european commission, governments and local authorities at all levels in order to achieve the best results for the citizens and the whole economic sector. what is mainly needed is specific technical support that will focus on the development of administrative capacity and improvement of coordination between management bodies at state and local levels. otherwise, i agree with the commissioner. specific tailor-made solutions are needed reducing the institutional, administrative and economic shortcomings of these regions will increase the efficiency of eu financial assistance as a whole. the poorest regions must be encouraged to elaborate integrated plans for development as national documents which could serve as a basis for relating their specific features and potential. the member states should be encouraged to improve the legislative framework in the field of public-private partnerships, making it a good basis for simple and transparent rules. but what the institution and the beneficiaries of these different programmes, including in my own country bulgaria, need most is an even more active exchange of good practices, mainly amongst the new member states, know-how transfer towards the central, regional and lowest possible local administrations and organisation of specific training on the whole cycle of project-making and implementation. there are four key elements we should keep in mind: convergence, assistance, capacity for financial absorption and simplification of the rules. to conclude, all measures in the report are very important, including, of course, equal rights for men and women, which is a serious problem in these regions. i fully support the initiative for the adoption of a resolution specifically directed at the poorest eu regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the disasters we have witnessed in europe this year have shown the need for two fundamental changes in the way we approach these problems. first, there is a need to create more flexible mechanisms to support countries in the recovery process after natural disasters. secondly, these problems have also shown the need to create a unified european force to respond quickly and support the capacity of countries when they are faced with this type of disaster. my country, bulgaria, has suffered from both fires and floods this year. when massive fires around a large town, stara zagora, had to be extinguished, the state asked for support from the european union member states, but could not get it because their capacity was full. he received support from russia on the basis of a bilateral agreement. it costs a lot for the image of the european union in my homeland. i therefore call on all of you to call on the european commission to make a careful analysis and to come up with proposals for the creation of a joint european force to assist member states in responding to disasters and emergencies. thank you, sir.
mr president, my colleagues and i recently witnessed a very strange phenomenon at terminal 1b of frankfurt airport. passengers leaving for sofia on a bulgaria air flight had to go through two consecutive security checks that were completely identical. after enquiring of the terminal officials why passengers had to stand twice in a long queue to undergo the same security check procedures, i received the absurd explanation that frankfurt airport was overloaded and second checks were required because of extra passengers arriving from elsewhere. a reliable source later informed me that these double checks are applied on certain days of the week at terminal 1b for flights to the following eu countries: bulgaria, poland and romania. mr president, i would expect the commission to respond to this practice because it has to do not just with air passengers’ rights but also with the human rights of european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted this strategy, a timely and important measure. alcohol use, which often turns into abuse, has many targets, including minors. this is a danger that the public doesn't recognize at this stage, probably because of a lack of information. in addition to personal health and reproductive health, abuse damages health systems, leads to an increase in anti-social behaviour, an increase in crime, a drop-out in school and, therefore, an increase in illiteracy. that's why we need information, education, prevention programs to shape behavior. i find two key words in this report: risk and security. in order to be politically united, the commission can consider two important measures: to propose a targeted programme for a large-scale study of the impact of alcohol consumption and the impact of public awareness of the problem, to be carried out by the member states, and to set up a special fund to receive part of the proceeds from alcohol advertising, which will be used for prevention programmes.
madam president, now that the eight-year long duel over the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor in libya has ended, i feel we are badly in need of a sober assessment of the human rights situation in that country. ms valenciano martínez-orozco’s report mentions the need to start a human rights dialogue with libya. i support the need for a dialogue within the barcelona process. however, let us be clear that we cannot forget or tolerate the fact that european citizens were abducted, tortured (as was acknowledged even by colonel gaddafi’s son), kept in prison for eight years and subjected to a judicial process which was a farce, and then behave as if we should be grateful to, or reward, the libyan side for letting them go in the end. it has already vividly been reflected in the european media that this could turn into a case study for any dictatorship to focus attention and develop relations with the european union. moreover, libya started a campaign against the president of bulgaria for having pardoned the nurses after they returned to bulgaria, as if it expected that we would send them to prison straight from the airport. on the basis of the european commission agreement with libya, bulgaria had to underwrite usd 56 billion of libyan debt for the benghazi fund. other eu countries will spend even more. however, once again, let us be clear that this humanitarian aid is being used politically by the libyan regime to hide the truth and blame the west for a plot to deliberately infect arab children. this absurd accusation is still current. libya has not yet shown any intention of reform and we should not create the impression of applying double standards just because there is so much oil and gas in that country. this is a test of the credibility of the european union’s human rights standards.
mr. chairman, ms. kuneva, mr. ferhoegen, colleagues, i will start where the previous speaker left off. i think that everyone in this parliament agrees that the best protected consumer is the only informed consumer. if the safety of products on the market is a priority for all of us, then the safety of children's toys is twice as important, because children are the most vulnerable group of consumers. we all want to see only safe toys on the market, and that is why we often rely on the ce marking. the majority of producers outside the european union have realised that european importers no longer risk offering goods that do not comply with this marking on the market. at the same time, our citizens believe that it is a guarantee of quality and above all a guarantee of safety. it is in this sense, mr president, that the recognition of the true meaning of the ce marking is of particular importance to all of us. many studies have shown that unfortunately many consumers, especially in the new member states, do not know the true meaning of this marking. that is why i am calling on the commission to: once the european parliament has decided on the new approach, to organise a campaign to inform european citizens about the true meaning of the ce marking. because one of the best ways to protect the rights of 500 million consumers in the european market is to raise their awareness, because, really, only the informed consumer is the best protected consumer.
mr president, civilians are the silent victims of any conflict and we have an obligation – indeed, a duty – to stand up and protect them, and to live up to the covenant of noble peace laureate elie wiesel ‘never to be silent whenever and wherever human beings endure suffering and humiliation’. i welcome, therefore, the initiative of this house to debate the situation in gaza and also welcome the call in the resolution to call upon israel to fulfil its obligations and guarantee the flow of humanitarian assistance to gaza. but today we also need to ask some other questions. we need to start by asking ourselves, why is it that every time there is a movement towards peace, the violence intensifies? why it is that every time the voices of reason in israel and the palestinian territories seek a resolution, there are terrorist groups to take up arms against peace? why is the fear of a two-state solution, of israel and palestine living side by side in peace, so dreaded by some that they prefer to inflict pain and suffering on their own people? let us not shrink from admitting that responsibility for the dire situation of the people living in gaza also lies squarely with hamas, who oppose a settlement, who call for the destruction of a legitimate member of the united nations and who fear peace and promote violence. in 2005, 400 rockets were fired into israel from gaza. in 2006, 1 726 rockets were fired. in 2007, it was close to a thousand rockets. many have died, hundreds have been injured and thousands evacuated. they are also civilians: men, women and children. on 26 september, 54 mortars were fired from gaza on the sufa crossing terminal. the next day, the crossing points to which the commissioner was referring – erez and karem shalom – were targeted. indeed, they were targeted because hamas believes that closing those points fulfils their goal of increasing the suffering, and of people siding with hamas. that is the wrong strategy. let us acknowledge that there are forces of terror and forces of fear in gaza who seek to profit from the suffering of their own people.
the bbc 4 film, "the abandoned children of bulgaria", which tells about the conditions and attitudes towards the residents of the home for mentally retarded children in the village of mogilino, caused a stormy reaction among the bulgarian and international community. that obliges me to say what has been done. first, we questioned the minister of labour and social policy and the chairman of the child welfare agency. we've asked for the home to be closed and for the deinstitutionalization process to be expedited. the ministry of social affairs responded to our inquiry. second, we've activated foreign ngos that provide social services to people with disabilities. among them is 'bethel', the largest social organisation in europe, with 150 years of experience in caring for people with mental disabilities. her experts have responded to my request to visit the mogilino home together and to seek concrete solutions to the problems. the state has the primary responsibility for the provision of these homes and for the maintenance of the children. her representatives are making an effort. what we need, however, is a change in the conception of social services for children with severe intellectual disabilities and a change in the attitude of society and institutions towards them. the isolation of these children in hard-to-reach villages and small towns has long been out of place in european practice. the problems will not be solved by hiding the truth, but only by consolidating the efforts of all of us.
my country bulgaria is on the eve of the first local elections to be held after we became members of the european union. they are therefore different, burdened with many expectations arising from the new european realities. local authorities need to be staffed by capable and active people who can work with the funds from the european funds in a skilful way. bulgaria has a chance to absorb almost seven billion euros for the period 2007-2013 as a full member of the european union. but it's very important that these funds reach the people who need them most, and not sink into corporate and party coffers. and since europe is about regions and decentralisation is an irreversible process, the role of people in local government is becoming more and more important. bulgaria has been repeatedly and rightly criticised for its insufficient administrative capacity and for shortcomings in the work of the institutions. having won the trust of our european partners and become part of the big european family, we must take the next important step, to elect mayors and municipal councillors who can work actively not only at regional and national level, but also at european level. for me, as a representative of bulgaria in the european parliament, it is very important that local government should be staffed by qualified and competent people. as we enter the common european home, we must make a personal effort to get our rightful place, a place earned, not given.
geopolitical interests and balances, the level of technological development and its impact on the economy, thus create the necessary conditions for a second chance for nuclear energy as an important component in the energy mix. this topic is very important and relevant in the context of heated debates on climate change, security of energy supply and alternative solutions for generating energy capacity. in my country, bulgaria, in 2006, the kozloduy nuclear power plant contributed 43% to the country's total electricity production and to the sustainable development of the economy. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the costs of the nuclear power plant. analyses show that over the next few decades, global electricity consumption will double. worldwide, about 31 reactors are under construction and others are in the planning stages. this dynamic process shows that solutions are actively sought to address the challenges of modern economies, the provision of cheap and clean energy, climate change and compliance with the kyoto protocol greenhouse gas quotas, security of supply and less dependence on gas and oil imports. and if i remind you of another fact, that currently one third of the electricity in the european union is from nuclear power plants, i would conclude that perhaps the time has come for a nuclear renaissance.
first of all, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr reul, on his objective and balanced report. among the report's key strengths are the clear role of conventional energy sources, the need to use them more rationally through new technologies to achieve energy security in the european union while fully respecting the objectives of sustainable development and the fight against climate change. i would like to support the conclusion that increasing investment in energy technologies at european and national level will not only help achieve the union's energy objectives, but also strengthen its export capabilities of facilities that meet the highest standards of efficiency and safety. i would like to draw particular attention to the section of the report on nuclear energy, not only because of its leading role in the production of electricity from conventional sources, but also because of the vital need for nuclear energy to meet the highest standards of nuclear safety. in this sense, support for the commission's call for the imposition of common nuclear safety reference levels in the european union is a very important aspect of the report. i would like to emphasise in particular that bulgaria, which is planning to build a new nuclear power plant, is interested in increasing the role of the european union both in upholding high standards of nuclear safety and in ensuring favourable investment conditions for these major projects, which require the mobilisation of financial, material and intellectual resources. the work of the european union, including the high level group on nuclear safety and waste management and the european nuclear energy forum, will contribute to making nuclear energy an increasingly objective part of european union policy.
mr president, first i must commend mr reul for skilfully steering his report through about 200 committee-stage amendments to provide this house with a very balanced, consistent and honest report that is highly relevant to the challenges we face today and in the future. many of those defeated amendments have reappeared at the last minute, and we in plenary must throw them out again. these amendments damage not only the report: in the end, they damage the environment that some of the proposals claim to represent. i use the word ‘honest’ most deliberately, because mr reul has used real words like ‘coal’ and ‘nuclear’, rather than hiding behind the generalities of what might or might not be sustainable or renewable, and it is clear that we will continue to rely on burning fossil fuels for generations to come. of course we support renewables. we do so because they provide necessary, clean energy. however, in most member states, renewable energy can meet neither our environmental targets, nor our accelerated energy demands, nor our need to remain competitive in global markets. as responsible politicians, we must discard the dogmas of the past and recognise that all clean technologies have their role to play. quite simply, we must retain and advance the nuclear share – and we will still not be doing enough. in my country, bulgaria, we were needlessly required to close 2 000 mw of safe, clean nuclear power.
it is a challenge for a representative of bulgaria, one of the newest member states of the european union, to participate in the adoption of the 2008 budget, now as a full member. this is possible thanks to the enlargement policy pursued by the european union, supported by its budgetary policy. i support the report and congratulate the rapporteurs and coordinators on the agreement reached on the budget and on the amendments. the 2008 draft budget, in its section on sustainable growth, also enables the newest member states of the european union to achieve the objectives set for them in connection with membership. the operational programmes of the structural funds ensure the quality and qualification of human resources, competitiveness, improvement of infrastructure, administrative capacity, transport, the environment and others. unfortunately, the funds are always less than what is needed. i support the strategic increase in payments to the structural funds, the social fund and the cohesion fund, because this gives the right and the opportunity to expand the operational programmes and their possibilities. i also support the 30% reserve for the administrative expenditure line because i believe that this is cost-efficient and this is the kind of control that is being carried out. the 2008 draft budget also pays attention to the new regions that have joined. in the black sea region, these are bulgaria and romania, which are also borders of the european union. the policy of the european union and national governments is to make the region an area of security, stability and good neighbourliness. the region needs infrastructure improvements, increased investment, adequate environmental protection measures, due to its strong industrialisation and its conversion into a transfer area for energy raw materials. the european union, through its policy and its financing, must guarantee both environmental security and the stability of europe's energy supply. the black sea monitoring and framework programme for the black sea development is a pilot project which i am sure the european parliament will support and is a step in the right direction towards the good development of the black sea region and also towards the inclusion of the citizens of the black sea region in the european union's policy for their membership.
in writing. it should be emphasised that the informal education sector is underdeveloped and popular, often detached from the formal one. the european qualifications framework is a key tool in overcoming this gap and a means of rethinking and reorganising the vocational guidance and information system. the creation of the eqf will facilitate the movement of labour for the 32 participating countries and will stimulate the participation of sectoral and branch organisations from the new member states in the absorption of european social fund funds allocated to the acquisition of new or upgraded skills. for newer member states such as bulgaria, the possibility of exchanging good practice and implementing pilot programmes within the community are important. the development and implementation of the european credit system for vocational education and training (ecvet), aimed at facilitating the accumulation, transfer and recognition of learning outcomes, regardless of where and how they are acquired, is of great importance in view of the transitional periods imposed on bulgaria and romania. the credit system will stimulate free movement and widen access to the labour market for a greater proportion of the community's workforce, while providing a sound basis for comparability. i believe that the eqf will give further impetus to the development of this process.
dear mr. chairman, dear members, on the night of the second round of the local elections, ahmed dogan, the leader of the anti-constitutional turkish party movement for rights and freedoms, which holds the mandate of the bulgarian government, said that buying votes is a european practice. this shameful statement has provoked the righteous anger of bavarian minister for european affairs markus söder. in an interview with die welt, söder called for an investigation and a suspension of eu funds for bulgaria. the sdf is the political successor to a turkish terrorist organization. ahmed dogan is one of the founders of this organization, for which he was convicted and spent time in prison as a terrorist. the attack party has from the very beginning declared itself against the existence of this mafia structure, whose means, in addition to buying votes, include economic racketeering and appalling discrimination against bulgarians in their own country. stopping the european funds would mean punishing the bulgarian people for a political mafia. we'd better stop the dogon instead! if votes are bought for him, imagine how the four representatives of the movement for rights and freedoms in the liberal group here in the european parliament were elected! this parliament should condemn the anti-democratic statements of ahmed dogan and set up a commission of inquiry to investigate both the recent local elections and the euro-vote in may this year. thank you, thank you!
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the increasing activity of far-right extremist forces, which sometimes we tend to forget and even to forgive. in less than a month we have faced a number of worrying events. in october a group of young italians outraged the memory of the holocaust, shouting in favour of hitler in the dachau concentration camp. spain has witnessed racist attacks against immigrants in barcelona and madrid. the paramilitary hungarian guard has shown its violent face in budapest. in recent days we have seen far-right ideas which are contrary to the very basic values of our european project infecting political life in belgium and italy and influencing political decisions and actions. special attention should be given to last week’s far-right rally in prague, which attempted to celebrate the 1938 anti-jewish purge known as the kristallnacht on 9 november. all these events are becoming part of our daily life. it is time to wake up. we, the european parliamentarians, should lead the battle for the principles which brought us into this house: peace, democracy, tolerance, justice and solidarity. let me underline that the existence of a far-right political group in this parliament is encouraging extremists across europe. my only hope is that this abuse of democracy will soon be brought to an end.
on behalf of the its group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure that such a famous and proven name in world sport as mr pál schmitt is putting his authority to work and raising a very important issue before the european parliament, one that will determine the future of europeans. because the attitude towards sport is actually the attitude towards the health of the people of a united europe. it is an honour and a pride for me to speak on his report as an athlete, as a representative of an ancient people with a great sporting spirit, and as a man concerned about the future of the children of a united europe, of our children. to me, it seems to be clear: more school sports, less drugs in schools; more spending on school sports, less spending on health care, because it is obvious to everyone that it is 10 times better for our children to be healthier than better treated; more sports competitions from the earliest age, less aggression in other areas of life; more international sports competitions involving students, less interethnic and interstate tensions within the european union and the world. so, because of the short time available, i would like to point out some things that need to be developed, based on the report of the champion and the athlete and politician whom i respect very much, pál schmitt. i would like the european parliament to commit to a recommendation to all member states to increase school sports hours to 5 hours a week. i suggest that the european parliament seriously consider and include in its future budget a proposal to organise international competitions on its behalf for pupils in some of the most useful sports for young people. because the report says that school sports are unattractive. have you ever wondered why soccer is so attractive? because football players are stars. let's make europe broadcast its students, sports stars in different fields! we'll be promoting school sports much more than we have guidelines and recommendations. european champions in athletics, football and basketball, eastern martial arts, school swimming. this may not restore the spartan ideal of a healthy mind, a healthy body in its authentic sense, but it will do much more than just give a speech. in this sense, the decision to hold the youth olympic games in 2010 is also a decision, but the olympic spirit cannot be introduced into school sports if we rely only on the four-year period of the olympics. we need to fill in the time between them with a meaningful international sports calendar, specifically for students. the european parliament must make a special effort to prevent the spread of drugs through school sports. in conclusion, i believe that all good things come to pass if this parliament understands that sport from the earliest childhood... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the pse group. i would like, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the socialists, to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs cizelj, on the thorough work and good cooperation in the committee on industry, research and energy in preparing the report. i believe that the adoption of a new statute for the euratom supply agency is not only necessary to take account of the new number of member states and to reflect modern financial rules. above all, the statute should provide a basis for strengthening the agency's role in ensuring regular supplies of raw materials and nuclear materials under the most favourable conditions. in this context, i support the proposal to strengthen the agency's analytical functions with regard to the development of the nuclear materials market, to carry out periodic analyses, including market risk analyses. the proposals to specify and enhance the role of the advisory committee at the agency will help to enhance the authority of the agency and the expertise of its work. proposals to increase the transparency of the work of the agency should also receive special support. from the point of view of the role of the european parliament, two changes are appropriate: a clearer definition of the role of the european parliament in the budgetary procedure and the provision to the european parliament of the agency's work programme, annual reports and studies, in order to be regularly and fully informed about its work. i am convinced that the council's adoption of the european parliament's proposals will enhance the authority of the agency and, in a broader international context, it could be one of the leading initiators of the implementation of the european parliament's appeal to the international community in paragraph 9 of its resolution of 14 march this year on non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament, calling for support for initiatives for multilateral international centers for enrichment of uranium under the control of the international atomic energy agency. as javier solana noted in lisbon on 6 november at the euromed meeting, this issue is becoming particularly relevant now that countries such as morocco, egypt and jordan have announced ambitious nuclear energy development programmes. in conclusion, i would like to express my confidence that the adoption of the new statute of the euratom supply agency will help to enhance the role of the european union in the implementation of strict non-proliferation and nuclear safety rules. (speaker finishes his speech in english.) i would like to thank in particular the vice-president of the commission, mr frattini, for his support for the proposals made by the committee on industry, research and energy and for his statement that the agency should become a viable body of the european union in the light of the revival of the role of nuclear energy and a new, more balanced attitude towards it.
mr president, according to the directive, and in compliance with the principle of non-discrimination, all union citizens and their family members residing in a member state should enjoy equal treatment. alongside the right of freedom of movement, they are entitled to take up employment in the country of residence – regarded as related rights in article 23 of the directive. in this sense, the freedom of movement of workers is a fundamental right, complying with the idea of a united europe, whose citizens can be freely employed everywhere. unfortunately, this is not the case with the citizens of most of the new member states, including bulgaria and romania, who are facing restrictions. after a public debate on whether bulgaria will or will not apply the community law in this field, and whether to undertake a reciprocal approach, it was decided not to do so and to abide by the common community goals, so that the european union could respond adequately to the contemporary global challenges. while saluting those member states that have taken the same position so far, i call upon the other member states to join in and take into consideration the fact that the transitional periods are obstacles to the development of a single european labour market and hamper its competitiveness. the analyses point out that the old member states that have opened up their markets have received much more benefits than problems with the workers received. on the other hand, the new member states already face serious shortages of qualified workers. the recent eurostat survey published today indicates that there has not been large-scale migration of bulgarians and romanians after accession. the survey also shows that 80% of bulgarians abroad are working, which is undoubtedly an employment quota a number of eu countries can only dream about. despite the progress achieved so far, the freedom to move still lags far behind other european freedoms. the idea of eu citizenship is also distorted by creating first-, second- or third-class citizens, as we are witnessing in our debate today. a real transition from eu common market citizens to eu citizens with full rights and responsibilities should effectively take place as soon as possible, for the benefit of all of us.
on behalf of the its group. our group visited the southernmost point of europe, lampedusa island, where there is a detention camp for immigrants, and there we met a group whose boat had sunk and people had died. although they had lost their friends, these illegal immigrants were in a pretty good mood, and the reason for this, i think, is that there is too much tolerance in the union for illegal immigrants. they've been tolerated so long that once they reach the union's shores, they feel as if they've accomplished their mission. that is why measures must be put in place to tell an illegal immigrant before he leaves that the risk of drowning is too great. however, if he does not, and reaches the territory of the european union, he should know that he will not remain in that territory. so if we really care that there are human beings who die in their attempts to immigrate illegally, then we can be sure that there will be no more attempts to do such attempts. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the its group. i would like to remind the commission and the council first of all that globalisation is not a process that exists by itself, that europe is a major factor in world politics and that the policy europe takes depends on whether globalisation develops. and that is precisely what i could not understand from the commission's strategy. is the commission willing to pursue a policy that will advance globalisation or slow it down? i would also point out that the single market alone is no guarantee of europe's success in the process of globalisation. the council said that competitiveness was very important to them, but there are new economies in the european union now, fragile economies that are not competitive even in the internal market. the commission has said that the development of the lisbon strategy is of paramount importance to it in order to achieve its plans in the context of globalisation. i expect especially for bulgaria that the lisbon strategy will fail, because our country, as we have said many times, was not ready when it was accepted into the european union. in this situation, how can we protect the interests of european citizens if we do not use some form of protectionism? the open society that graham watson talks about is simply a betrayal of the weaker economies in the union. if we are first solidarity on a global scale instead of solidarity in the community, why do we have the community at all? under these conditions, a future evolution of globalization with weak economies that have large trade deficits and are not competitive even in the domestic market will continue to put pressure on these economies until a tipping point is reached and these economies that have been struggling for 20 years to enter some kind of normal development path will fall apart like a house of cards.
mr president, commissioner ferrero-waldner was right at the beginning that the enp should stimulate democratic reform. the georgian government has to fully restore the normal democratic process in the country and strictly abide by the principles of the rule of law in all its actions. in particular, we should express our concerns about the serious violations of the right to free expression and access to information. what is needed in this situation is resuming the political dialogue and finding a compromise in the interests of the people and democracy in the country. i am particularly alarmed by the violence exerted by the police force against peaceful demonstrators. the events of these last days show failure on the part of the government to bear criticism. the excuse of the alleged plot of a coup d’état, implying some russian influence, is highly controversial to say the least. moreover, it is clear that any successful opposition challenger, whom at this moment we do not see on the political scene, is highly unlikely to be pro-russian. we welcome president saakashvili’s decision to call early presidential elections. today’s news that the state of emergency will be lifted is also a positive sign. from now on, we expect that all the necessary conditions for free and fair elections will be met. one of these conditions is the freedom of expression, and this means that all media that have been forcibly closed down during the recent developments, like imedi tv, and kafkasya tv, should resume their normal activities. we should be very clear on that. i believe that president saakashvili will be bold enough to reverse the negative trends established over the last weeks. after his election he started a good reform policy in georgia, which has to be supported. i also firmly believe that the democratic development of the country should be closely monitored and supported by the european parliament.
madam president, i could not vote in time. please put my vote in favour.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. today we will vote on the nominations of seven new members of the court of auditors. the european parliament and the members of the european parliament have always attached great importance to this institution. as a member of the european parliament from bulgaria and representing one of the new member states, i believe that the proper functioning of the european court of auditors and its effective cooperation with meps is essential for the financial health of the european union as a whole. during the hearings of the candidates in the committee on budgetary control, we had the opportunity to learn about their professional competence, their personal knowledge and their individual motivation. of course, we can note with some regret the lack of a female candidate and the lack of young candidates, but the european parliament has no power over the countries and the choices they make at national level when they nominate their candidates. our responsibility as meps is to assess the proposals and i believe that the candidates who have appeared before the committee on budgetary control are worthy of being elected to the court of auditors. the majority support for the seven candidates during the committee vote is a testament to the high value we placed on each of these candidates. their political and professional independence was among the fundamental criteria that guided us in evaluating the candidates. the epp-ed group in the european parliament will support all the proposed candidates in the expectation of good and fruitful cooperation with the members of the european court of auditors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by joining the european union, bulgaria has introduced a model of tolerance that is unique in the balkans and europe. it is based on a balance between the principle of integration of minorities in all spheres of the political, social, economic and cultural life of the country, and the principle of preserving their ethno-religious identity. this model pointed out a way out of the deadlock of interethnic tensions in which the so-called "rejuvenation process" had plunged bulgaria. it was this model that restored good neighborly relations between christians and muslims, transforming ethnic conflicts into a political process. the movement for rights and freedoms played a fundamental role in the development of the bulgarian ethnic model. as the largest liberal party in the balkans, the dps stands for individual rights and freedoms and the protection of minorities, arising from the law, not from their origin and religion, and based on european values. unlike other neighbouring countries, even under the most severe repression by the communist regime, the spd has never been tempted to use methods of violence, never supported separatist ideas or actions, but has sought the agreement of all democratic parties, both at national and european level, to resolutely oppose emerging tendencies of ethnic, racial or religious intolerance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the start of the ratification of the lisbon treaty and the signing of the charter of fundamental rights, i would like to draw your attention to bulgaria and to the fact that, unfortunately, the bulgarian government, its administration and the representatives of the governing coalition in parliament are still far from implementing some of the basic principles laid down in these documents. it is about the principles of open government, transparency and, above all, accountability and responsibility in decision-making. over the past week, bulgarian citizens have witnessed yet another attempt by the government to use unclear criteria to carry out a hidden redistribution of the state budget surplus and to allow the so-called "black coffers" of the ruling parties to appropriate funds in an unregulated way. this is yet another example of the lack of political accountability and transparency. it's a testament to the growing political practice in recent years of power coming and staying not as a result of work done, but thanks to the buying of voters' votes. as a member of the european parliament, representative of the largest opposition party in bulgaria and a right-wing political force that embraces the values of the european people's party, i believe that the status quo of the political model in bulgaria thus built leads to the alienation of citizens from the decision-making process and increases their perception of corruption. we are ready to take part in the campaign to promote the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights, to make sure that the principles of effective and transparent governance are upheld, and to convince citizens of the values that both documents enshrine.
mr president, i have been approached by representatives of the bulgarian health protection confederation, which was set up by twelve patient organisations and defends the interests of one million chronically ill bulgarians. in recent years, drug policy has been a source of serious concern in bulgaria. although health insurance funds are increasing, fewer drugs are purchased with them each year. they unfortunately include a 20% value-added tax. bulgarian patients are concerned that their representatives are not allowed to monitor and control the expenditure of healthcare funds. they insist on being included in these processes to ensure transparency. after years of appeals to the bulgarian government and no adequate response, they turned to the european commission and the european parliament. more than one million bulgarians suffer from chronic diseases and do not receive adequate health protection. in addition, drug policy concerns concern the interests of over 80 european pharmaceutical manufacturers, who are also seeking more transparency. so from this podium, i am appealing to the bulgarian authorities and to the european institutions to support the organizations' demand for more transparency.
commissioner, there are several reasons for my question today. the first reason is your overly, in my view, general response to such a discussion in the imco committee. the second is the written question i have already put to you and i hope to receive a reply today. and the third reason: i would like to draw your attention in particular to the christensen report adopted in 2005 on the integration of the new member states into the consumer protection system complementary to the internal market regime of the european community. the report contains recommendations to the european commission to pay special attention to the new member states, which my country is joining. i would like to express my personal opinion that despite the efforts made by the commission in this area, only 3% of bulgarian citizens feel protected as consumers. so my specific question is: what has the european commission done to ensure the safety of chinese toys distributed at christmas and new year's in the markets of the new member states, given their relatively weaker system for ensuring consumer protection?
commissioner, in your speech you said several times that our wine market needs reform. explain to me, commissioner, what your wine market is, because what you are proposing as a commission proposal is not protecting the bulgarian market. because with its proposal the commission has imposed a clear discrimination, a clear double standard against the eastern european countries where the conditions for wine production are less favourable. when my country joined the european union, it expected a free market and economic growth, and what it got in return was nothing but high prices, high inflation and regulation, the likes of which my people had never seen even when they were under socialism, when they were under planned economy. thank you for your attention.
i take the floor on a rule that gives me the right to a personal explanation, because mr. cohn-bendit has made insults to people in this room, personal insults that you, mr. cohn-bendit, have no right to hide behind your parliamentary immunity. say you're waiving your immunity and then insult the mps! as for what happened, it's just a right of free speech that every single mp has in this parliament. i want to address mr. daul. mr. daul, if you want to forcibly remove the deputies, aren't you like hitler, who did exactly that in the german reichstag? the greatest democracy is direct democracy. and we have expressed our vote, our right to free vote, to direct democracy, not bypassing the european nations, as you have done here. what is happening here is the dictatorship of the new proletariat, which is being formed in the new union. this time not soviet, but european.
i voted 'abstention' on the resolution on terrorism because, of course, i do not support the development of terrorism, but i cannot support a document of this kind which, in my view, only creates further panic among european citizens and further contributes to the ultimate goal of terrorism, namely terror. i was pleased, however, with the amendments which were tabled by the europe of nations group and which were adopted, which said that everything must be cured by the cause, as the old saying goes, every disease must be cured by the cause. and so, for example, if we put pressure on israel to stop its segregation policy and its wall that separates arabs and takes away their basic human rights, we will do much more in the fight against terrorism than if we listen to phones and monitor websites. however, the amendment should not have been rejected, again by the europe of nations group, which pleaded for attention to the development of terrorism within europe, because in my country, under the leadership of the ruling spd party, banned terrorist organisations are developing.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr commissioner, i thank you for your understanding and for presenting the commission's intentions. there is something symbolic about the fact that today, on the very day the charter of fundamental rights was signed, we are discussing this subject, which is directly related to it. because the rise of extremism, the expansion of the influence of far-right parties and groups, is a direct threat to the very existence of the european union. it may sound strong, but our union is built on clear principles and its existence is possible thanks to the fact that 50 years ago in europe there was peace, solidarity, tolerance, mutual respect between ethnic groups and religions, and the peaceful coexistence of peoples. today, the far right in all its forms is attacking these very principles, attacking the very heart of the european union, without which it cannot exist. but our union is not an abstract construct, not just another administrative level of government. it is a union whose mission is to uphold and protect the values on which the entire world is built. whether we want to or not, whether we are ready for this task or not, we must be aware that in every corner of our planet there are people who are deprived of basic rights, suffering from political repression, oppressed by undemocratic regimes or discriminated against on the basis of race, ethnicity, religion. and in each of these corners lives the hope that the european union will support them, that the spirit of tolerance, of guaranteed civil rights, of social security can reach their country. can we be strong and convincing on the outside if we can't handle the problems here in our own backyard? how do we explain to people whose last hope is us that immigrants are dying because of their origins, that ethnic minorities are systematically discriminated against, that party ideologies challenge women's equality or define homosexuality as a disease? how do we explain that we are on the verge of forgetting the darkest pages of our history and young people are chanting hitler and anti-semitism is becoming fashionable? i cannot accept that, nor can my fellow socialists. i believe that there is no political group in this parliament that is not concerned about the fact that right-wing extremism, racism, xenophobia are gaining ground. have we not seen today how a historic moment in the development of the european union has been vulgarly perverted by a small minority of peasants who may return in 2009 stronger, more aggressive and more organised? does anyone have any doubts about the goals it was pursuing today? under the hypocritical demand for a referendum, it has not only challenged the european charter of fundamental rights, but the fundamental rights themselves. it is this behaviour, which we see in many national parliaments, that is encouraging the extremists who, inspired by this political circus, will carry out another punitive action tomorrow. we need to clearly identify the problems and look for the answers together. that is why we will put this subject on the agenda of parliament again and again. because extremism is a pan-european challenge that requires coordinated efforts at european, national, regional and local levels. if the european commission is the guardian of the treaties of the european union, the european parliament is the guardian of the values, and i believe that together we will be able to stop a rising tide that has been known since the recent past. and that we would stop it without violating fundamental rights like the right to free speech, the right to association, the freedom of the press. because the struggle for democracy can only be fought by the rules of democracy. if we break these rules, then extremism has won. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is proof that the european parliament guarantees the rights not only of the majority but also of those who have a different opinion. because if the nationalists in this room achieve their goals, none of us will have the right to dissent, as they have the opportunity to express today. we will defeat intolerance and extremism with arguments, not emotions, with facts, not noise. unfortunately, when we talk about facts, there's no one to hear them. unfortunately, that is a fact. i hope, however, that our sympathizers, our voters in the member states, will listen very carefully today to what commissioner frattini has said. first, intolerance and extremism come from a lack of awareness of the past. we must remember very well the past and the two heavy dictatorships that europe has experienced. i therefore appeal to the commission and to all of us not to forget europe's history and to make it possible, through the european commission's programmes, to finance projects that preserve the memory. and second, it's citizen participation in the political process. ladies and gentlemen, we are partly to blame for the nationalism and xenophobia in europe. a lot of us started sounding like bureaucrats, not politicians. they forgot to speak the language that the voters hear, and they started to speak the language of the institutions. let this give us strength in today's debate to overcome this problem, which exists, especially in the new member states. calling problems what they are and addressing them directly when they exist. because very often political parties win elections by promising one thing, doing another, and then they wonder why there was extremism and why there were dissenters. it is also our responsibility, as all of us in the european parliament, to counter the emerging extremism and intolerance in the east of the european union, which is dangerous for all of us. thank you. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the black sea is no longer just an external border for the european union following the accession of bulgaria and romania, but it is a sea that offers enormous economic potential for the development of our union. if we take the black sea and caspian region together, it comprises a market with a foreign trade potential of over 200 million euros and a population of over 350 million. i want to go back for a second to the debate we had in september, after the great floods and fires in europe. and then the question was raised of the need to create a joint force to help the member states deal with natural disasters like the one we have had this year. a similar need can now be identified in the situation we have in the black sea. first of all, i would ask the european commission and, of course, the member states, especially bulgaria and romania, to start a study as a matter of priority on the need to set up a regional rescue centre for the black sea to help the countries cope with the difficult situations we had a few months ago. secondly, there must be a serious analysis of the causes of these and all other disasters in the black sea region, and lessons to be drawn and recommendations for our policy in the region. and thirdly, it is time to start setting up a regional information centre for navigation in the black sea, which will also contribute to the safety of transport routes and navigation in general in this region. the tragedy that happened in the gulf of kerch is something that we all have to live with and deal with as quickly as possible, especially those of us who border the black sea. but let us use this tragedy as an opportunity to look at the reasons and opportunities for enhancing cooperation between the member states, the commission and the other countries bordering the black sea, so that the security of this important european road can be increased. thank you, sir.
first of all, let me express my sincere satisfaction that the commission has delivered this opinion. the fact that there is such a debate shows that the black sea is now the focus of european politics and european politicians. i welcome this approach and believe that it will benefit all citizens of the european union. as noted earlier, much still needs to be done to protect the black sea region. the question is how to prevent disasters like the one that happened in the kerch region. because while disasters can never be completely prevented, the causes of them can certainly be minimized. there are two ways to ensure better protection of our seas. first, let's continue to promote regional cooperation. second, better maritime policies are needed alongside regional cooperation. the measures proposed in the third maritime policy package are pointing in the right direction and should be implemented in the best possible way. the implementation of these measures is absolutely necessary to prevent similar events as in the black sea, in the kerch region. after the european parliament and the commission have already expressed their support for the package of measures for some time, it is now time for the council to step up and take the necessary steps to bring this package into force. the successful implementation of the measures provided for in the package, combined with the increased level of regional cooperation, such as the black sea economic cooperation and the dablas initiative for environmental protection, would not only make an important contribution to the security of our seas, but at the same time would ensure a higher competitiveness of our maritime industry. i believe this disaster proves once again the importance of the issue of our watersheds and the need for appropriate policies to prevent such accidents and protect the environment. i therefore believe that the time has come for the third package of measures in the field of maritime policy to become a reality and to enter into force. thank you for your attention.
ladies and gentlemen, i note the fact that financial crises are not a new phenomenon, they are an indicator of the asymmetry between the financial sector and the real economy. the us mortgage crisis has recently prompted comment from financiers that economies and financial markets are interconnected and that a broad discussion is needed to improve risk management. the idea in the ehler motion for a resolution to assess and improve the european union's precautionary and early warning measures to ensure the stability of financial markets is timely, as is the subject of deposit insurance as one of the traditional forms of saving in my country, bulgaria. in this context, i stress the crucial responsibility of banks to carefully organise their portfolios in order to manage their depositors' funds effectively. of course, raising citizens' awareness of the use of flexible schemes, diversifying forms of deposits and mechanisms such as deposit guarantee funds further enhance trust and financial stability.
i voted against the resolution on extremism because it is the birth of hatred that it should condemn. and who teaches us what extremism is? comrade schulz and comrade cohn-bendit, these advocates of marxism and leninism, the same ideology that killed tens of millions of russians and ukrainians at the beginning of the last century? or comrade vigenin, whose party had the bulgarian people by the hair for 50 years and wasted the lives of thousands of bulgarians in their concentration camps? are you going to teach us what extremism is?! thank you for your attention.
