mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. i must register my fear that our efforts towards an eu code of conduct on arms exports will, to a large extent, be made in vain. we should have no illusions. the giant arms producers and dealers of our world, niched mainly in the usa, russia and china, are not just outside our jurisdiction but are a law unto themselves anyway. paranoid national security phobias, widespread corruption and utter madness are fully exploited and manipulated by those whose business is selling the methodology of causing death and destruction. exporting means of killing is, for them, a global business worth more than usd 1 trillion per annum, and they are not going to be curtailed by the dreamland romanticism of eu parliamentarians. so let us stop wasting our time in dealing with non-effective legislative utopias, and let us start thinking about how best to tackle the problem effectively at its root cause, which is the uncontrollable research, production and trade of weapons by the continuously expanding evil arms industry of death.
mr president, i would like to suggest a couple of minor adjustments for the sake of greater clarity. in paragraph 2, line 4, i suggest replacing the words ‘for itself and’ by the words ‘of capital punishment in’, and in paragraph 8, line 3, inserting the word ‘affected’ in front of the word ‘children’.
madam president, as we speak, all the member states of the union have ratified the sixth protocol to the european convention on human rights on the abolition of the death penalty. we also hope that the latter will be abolished both in law and in practice in all countries of the world - whether in peace or in war - with the result that respect for human rights will be improved and human dignity enhanced. the council and the commission have stressed this today. but let me ask you whether we have taken care of the human rights and dignity of dictator saddam hussein and his fellow prisoners, who have become fodder for the world's eyes. is this the role of the european union as a global stabilizing factor? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. what should the european citizen think when he reads the council's condemnatory statements on the one hand and hears the derisive comments of its ministers on the other? let's get serious, because in the end, we're just fooling ourselves.
mr president, turkish cypriots living in the northern part of cyprus are now gradually attempting to free themselves from the stranglehold of the turkish army of occupation. approximately 85 000 turkish cypriots have, since the turkish invasion of 1974, been living under the subordination of turkey, decidedly imposed by the presence of 40 000 turkish troops. after cyprus’ succession to the eu in 2004, turkish cypriots are beginning to feel secure enough to start openly expressing their desire for freedom from turkish domination. in this respect, hundreds of turkish cypriot university students recently held a demonstration in occupied nicosia against the turkish army of occupation. a few days later, a prominent turkish cypriot politician, mustafa akinci, dared to make a fierce attack on the occupation of cyprus by turkish troops. the struggle of turkish cypriots against the turkish army of occupation of the northern part of cyprus has begun. it is gaining momentum and it deserves our full support if we are ever to see a united, independent cyprus in which the principles of justice and democracy are fully upheld.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, many thanks to the rapporteur for his hard work. a strategy to strengthen partnerships with the pacific islands sounds good at first encounter and inert enough not to cause any measure of suspicion or discontent. after all, the projected aim is to improve relations, mainly trade, for the mutual benefit of eu citizens and the pacific islanders. this might be the case for the majority of the pacific island countries. but for a significant number there is a hidden truth in the fact that many of the pacific islands are not countries at all: they are 21st century colonies, and two of the colonising nations happen to be members of the eu, namely france and britain. take for example new caledonia. it has an area of about 18 500 km2 and its approximately 250 000 inhabitants are recorded as being merely a ‘sui generis community’. new caledonia is not a country but an overseas department of france. on a much smaller scale, the pitcairn islands are an overseas territory of britain administered by a governor appointed by the queen of england. so colleagues, apart from the despicably shameful ethics of accepting that france and britain should continue to have colonies, we seem to be content with going on to form relations with such colonies as though nothing wrong is going on. in fact, nothing about colonisation and consequent democracy deprivation is mentioned in this report. in conclusion, let me pose the following question. since some of the islands are in essence parts of the aforementioned eu member states, then in reality are france and britain going to form relationships with themselves through this strategy partnership? perhaps the commissioner could enlighten us on this exciting but strange prospect.
mr president, i should like to move the following small addition to recital h, which deals with the execution of saddam hussein: ‘and deploring the way it was carried out’.
madam president, commissioner, my congratulations to mrs jackson on an excellent, though in some aspects controversial, report, and also to mr florenz and mr blokland. waste, as we all know, is a major problem of modern day living, and it is greatly worsened by the exaggerated consumerism-based global society we live in. hence, the most important task is not to find out how best to cope with the waste we generate, but to try to reduce the waste we produce in the first place. however, things being as they are, we have to deal with an effective waste framework directive. time constraints preclude extensive individual debate. i shall just mention two points. the first is the much-discussed article 3, and i will say straightaway that i tend to favour the amendment by mrs jackson and mr florenz regarding the recycling definition, not because i approve of incineration as such but because i believe it is vital to take one step at a time, and it is important to keep the existing recycling industry alive and functioning. my second point concerns implementation and monitoring. we all know that many directives are comprehensive enough but, to a large extent, remain good only on paper. we must make sure that the application of this waste directive is effectively monitored and properly implemented in practice. let us remember that a good piece of legislation from our parliament, if improperly applied on the ground, is a bad piece of legislation for our citizens.
mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs bozkurt wholeheartedly for her excellent and important report, one which i feel is even more important because it comes from a brave european woman of turkish origin who knows and understands the special circumstances and norms of a turkish, islamic, partly secular and partly fundamentalist society. looking back many years ago, women in turkish society were regarded more as objects than human beings. they have suffered enormously and it is only in recent years that this sad situation is beginning to be remedied. but although steps have been taken in the right direction, there is still very much that needs to be done. it is my view in fact that progress is not as much as we would have hoped for. indeed, in large parts of turkey, especially in the south-east, women are still treated as second-class citizens and are grossly discriminated against. illiteracy amongst turkish women is at record levels for a european-orientated country. additionally, the degree and extent of violence against women is still unacceptably high and unfortunately is in many cases accepted as the norm by large sections of turkish society. the despicable criminal and offensive activity of honour killings still happens only too regularly in turkish villages and cities. it is true that the turkish government is making some efforts to correct matters. for example, much attention has been focused recently on better education for women and on educating the police and the judiciary in order to deal more appropriately with violence against women. a country-wide information campaign and stricter implementation of the law are taking place, but are not having the desired effect, because drastic changes also have to happen at a core political level. prime minister erdogan himself recently drew attention to the ‘deep state’ in turkey that is opposing his government’s reforms and is fighting against parliamentary democracy. this deep state, supported mainly by the army and other extreme nationalist elements, is impeding progress in turkey – and incidentally, mrs resetarits – is keeping turkish cypriots isolated and cyprus divided. such forces do not want liberated women equal in all respects to men. it is our duty to support this report and bring liberation to turkish women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united states of america is a great friend of europe, of the european union and of each of its member states. this great country is at the heart of international terrorism and naturally it has a central role in the fight against terrorism. he makes mistakes, and the criticism we make is for those mistakes. it is not because we do not support the effort being made to combat terrorism. it is wrong to assume that any criticism of the cia's actions contains an element of anti-americanism. and it would be a greater mistake for the european parliament if, in order to avoid being misunderstood as anti-american, it turned a blind eye to violations of human rights, to violations of international law and to violations of the principles and values for which this european union exists. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. there are facts. there is guadanamo. there are extraordinary renditions. there are the illegal detentions. isn't that a violation of human rights? what do you want ? the european union should come forward and say: 'because the end justifies the means, we accept these violations'? i'm not sure. we're not going to cooperate in this position. the report by mr fava is basically a conclusion based on facts. but there are also inaccuracies and inferences that are not strictly supported by the facts. but that does not mean that it does not, at its core, put the problem in its proper perspective. i therefore personally intend, particularly if mr fava and the others accept the main amendments, to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, i have read with interest both reports by my colleagues and i would like to focus on three figures: 8, 17 and 12,5 thousand. indeed, unemployment in the european union currently stands at 8%, an unacceptable rate for a union that has a stated intention to become the best and most productive economy by 2010. the second figure corresponds to the proportion of union citizens living below the poverty line: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the benefits of the single market. finally, as you will have heard, the multinational company alcatel lucent has decided to lay off 12,500 of its employees over the next three years, many of whom work in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's social and labour market is not left in the lurch. we can therefore continue to congratulate the lisbon strategy in sequence. the truth is unfortunately different and bitter. but if i may take one point from the reports, it would be the need for parliament to have a greater say in employment matters.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the problem of tibet has been with us for many years and, as has already been mentioned, this house has dealt with different aspects relating to this problem many times in the past. in essence, the core issue of dispute between the people of tibet and china has been the wish of the tibetans for self-determination, as opposed to the chinese government’s fear of a possible domino effect leading to the break-up of china. in fact, such a problem has been the commonest cause of disputes worldwide. however, history has shown that by far the best and most effective way to solve such problems is through peaceful and open negotiations with a prerequisite determination on the part of all concerned to find a lasting solution. the alternative way – that of endless confrontation and bloodshed – usually leads nowhere and is, in most cases, to the detriment of both sides. with this in mind, we would warmly welcome a commitment by both the government of china, in particular, and the dalai lama to resolve the tibet question through a process of dialogue, and wholeheartedly hope that such a process, if brought about, will lead to a successful resolution of the tibetan problem.
mr president, mr posselt’s contribution was not a point of order, but we agree entirely with him.
mr president, the emergence of saddam hussein in the post-colonial troubled era in iraq brought a rule of intimidation, persecution and murder of citizens. the illegal military invasion and occupation of iraq undertaken in 2003 by mr bush and his british bulldog, mr blair, have brought an unprecedented calamity to the people of iraq. the bush-blair duo has succeeded in accomplishing in the space of three years what the likes of saddam hussein did not succeed in doing for thirty years, i.e. to bring the country completely to its knees, with hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians killed, with utter lawlessness, with comprehensive destruction of the country’s infrastructure and with millions of internal and external refugees. the usa and britain could together spend over one thousand billion dollars a year supporting their war machines in iraq, which largely caused the problem in the first place, but now expect the international community to deal with the enormous humanitarian problem of the iraq refugees. instead of the usa and britain taking care of the iraqi refugees and all the necessary costs involved, they expect neighbouring and european countries to do so. fair enough: we must not deviate from the rule that those who cause a catastrophe very seldom pay for it.
author. – mr president, you might be surprised to know that guinea has a long history of association with europe. it first became known to europeans during the portuguese discoveries that started the slave trade in the 15th century. in 1890, present-day guinea was created as a french colony and remained so until 1958. from 1958 until 1984 the country was governed by a dictator, ahmed sékou touré, who was supported by the soviet union. following touré’s death in 1984, a new totalitarian regime took over, headed by another dictator, lansana conté, who some claim was supported largely by the west. conté’s rule has certainly been better than touré’s, but is still very far from being democratic. the heavy-handed approach to political opponents and the events in february which led to the killing of 23 demonstrators is proof of that. guinea represents a country used and sometimes abused by europe in the past and is now struggling to survive in extreme poverty and political instability. guinea’s mineral wealth makes it, potentially at least, one of africa’s richest countries. we, as europeans, have a duty to assist its people – honestly and effectively this time – in finding and following the road to true democracy, freedom, justice and prosperity.
mr president, in order to clarify it even further and make it more factually correct and comprehensive, i wish to make an oral amendment to the oral amendment by mr désir. after the words ‘whereas there are allegations of the presence of mercenaries and former guerrilla fighters’, i wish to add ‘working as paramilitary government forces’. (poprawka ustna została przyjęta)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, there is a problem of interpretation with regard to the activities of the public services. both the european commission and the court of justice interpret compulsory and supplementary social security schemes, covering fundamental concepts such as health, old age, occupational accidents, unemployment, pensions, disability, as well as services provided directly to individuals, preventive or for social integration, cohesion, etc., and including social housing, integration of disabled or people with health problems, programmes for addicts, training programmes for reintegration into employment and other such schemes, as an economic activity, which allows the commission to raise the issue of the impact of services on competition. it is a fact that instead of recognising the role of such public social services as fundamental and necessary in a society, the commission reverses the conditions and attempts to market them with the right for foreign providers to provide them, in return, of course. this will put pressure on the public character and finances of such services. at the same time, it aims to make it more difficult for public providers to offer these services by invoking the principle of non-discrimination or articles of the treaty on european union. this is in the interests of private individuals, since the so-called abolition of discrimination and full competition will allow them to provide social services themselves, using the methods of business. if we take into account that social welfare services, as well as health services, are excluded from the bolkestein directive, then it is easier to understand that the commission is looking for other ways of bringing these services under full liberalisation, allowing multinationals to operate them under more favourable conditions. in the light of this, i believe that we must defend the right of the member states to define services of general interest as they wish, while maintaining their public character and not allowing them to be sold to private individuals by means of a directive. these services are vital to society and are not an economic activity in the strict sense but a social necessity.
mr president, our children are by far the most valuable of our assets. however, at the same time they are also the most vulnerable, not just because of their sensitive somatic and psychological needs while growing up, but also because of the numerous perils encountered in modern living. for these reasons, amongst many others, our children unquestionably need and deserve our utmost care and attention. however, in a world in which both parents may be frantically fighting their way into a busy career rat race, a world in which both parents may be consumed in the daily fight of earning more, a world in which the forces of social strain may have destroyed family cohesion, a world in which geographical separation may have diminished the invaluable assistance of grandparents and other close family members – in such a world parental childcare may suffer severely. this is the world that member states must assist promptly and comprehensively. there should be encouragement of initiatives to create a greater number of and better-suited childcare services; provision for special leave flexibility for parents; and the establishment of working environments adapted to the needs of parents. these are just some of the main necessities. in addition, innovative measures should also be encouraged and improved upon, such as parent counselling services or even schooling for parents, whereby parents may be given greater knowledge and support on how to be better parents and how best to cope with the problems of parenthood. in conclusion, let us never forget that no childcare services, however good they may be, can replace parental love and affection. along with all other measures, perhaps we should also encourage people to re-evaluate their priorities in life. is it better for a family to have a higher income but less child-parent contact? is it in the best interests of a family to have two full-time career-chasing parents who rarely meet up at the family dinner? every parent should perhaps consider these questions and try to answer them honestly for their children’s sake.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report on this commission proposal, which aims to extend the tasks of the european aviation safety agency. such an extension has become necessary in order to attain a high and uniform level of aviation safety while, at the same time, maintaining the fair conditions for air operators practising in the eu. in the main, the report appears to meet with widespread cross-group approval, and this is to a large extent indicative of the good cooperation achieved by mr leichtfried with the shadow rapporteurs. it is my view that the most important issue of note concerning this report is the fact that the committee on transport and tourism has voted in favour of a small number of very important amendments to the commission proposal that give the european aviation safety agency the power to impose fines with periodic penalty payments if safety standards are not implemented properly. let us not be confused: the fines are intended to be in addition to more drastic measures, such as licence revoking. furthermore, the committee voted in favour of establishing adequate protection for informers – whistleblowers – who could provide information on abuses or non-compliance with the legislation. the committee amendments should be given our full support, as they provide sensible and proper practical means of making sure that aviation safety is given the serious attention it deserves by all concerned and that strict compliance with safety rules is effectively achieved. in this respect, the use of the carrot alone is not good enough in some cases. the stick has important uses too. eighteen months ago my country, cyprus, suffered a major aviation tragedy, leaving 121 people dead. a report into the causes of that incident points towards major flaws in the implementation of aviation safety standards. if this commission proposal had been in place at the time, i am sure this air disaster could have been avoided. therefore, let us hope that this proposal, as amended by the committee on transport, will quickly be implemented. the sooner this happens, the better it will be for the avoidance of major air disasters.
the president of the council. i have just dealt with this subject in some detail, but in a more descriptive way, by illustrating the situation we are facing in the world of african states, especially in the context of sadc, which is responsible for the region. we are in a dialogue with the sadc countries on this and we will continue to do so. but our experience is that a mechanical increase in pressure does not cause the african states to change their approach to zimbabwe, but it is almost the opposite, namely that it then gives rise to reflexes of african solidarity. we have not yet found an answer to how we are going to deal with this, but we will of course continue our intensive dialogue with the sadc countries, including south africa, of course. we don't know what the reaction will be to these new incidents. in the background is mugabe's announcement that he may now run again. we are still lacking the answers from the african environment, which will be very important in deciding how to respond to this.
the president of the council. the european union has reacted swiftly to the tragic news of the murder of hrant dink. in its statement, the presidency expressed its conviction that the turkish authorities responsible for this abhorrent murder would identify and arrest those responsible as soon as possible and that turkey would continue steadfastly on its path towards the full realization of freedom of expression. as the honourable member will be aware, the council has repeatedly stressed the importance it attaches to the issue of freedom of expression. further continuous efforts are needed to ensure freedom of expression in turkey in accordance with the european convention on human rights and the relevant case law of the european court of human rights. the specific issue of article 301 of the turkish penal code, as well as other articles containing vague wording, has been systematically raised by the eu at all levels in the ongoing reform process in turkey. at the last meeting of the eu-turkey association council, the eu clarified that turkey would have to amend the vaguely worded articles in line with relevant eu standards if judges and prosecutors were to insist on a restrictive interpretation of these provisions. we expect the tragic murder of hrant dink to be a turning point, accompanied by substantial changes in the criminal code. the questioner can rest assured that the union will continue to monitor developments in this area closely and, where appropriate, to raise the issue at all levels. progress in this key area is of the utmost importance for the overall progress of the accession negotiations.
i'm the deputy editor. mr president, i would like to tell you that just yesterday the prosecutor filed a lawsuit for insulting the atatürk legacy against attila yaila, a political science professor who was expelled from ankara's gazi university for calling kemalism a backward ideology. the prosecution process is clearly targeting the defendants. in dick's case, even though he was acquitted by the court, it didn't stop fanatics from murdering him. the council cannot therefore wait for the courts to decide to demand amendments to the turkish penal code.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission welcomes and supports the motion for a resolution on the committee on missing persons. like the honourable members of this house, we believe that relatives have a fundamental right to know what became of missing persons. since the unrest of the 1960s and 1970s, about 1500 greek cypriots and 500 turkish cypriots have been missing, presumed dead. the committee on missing persons is charged with finding and identifying the remains of the missing, of returning them to their families and of counselling the bereaved. the committee has the support of both sides on the island and of the international community. it is currently the most important and successful bi-communal confidence-building and reconciliation measure in cyprus. recent exhumations and the establishment of an anthropological laboratory in the buffer zone show that, if there is a political will on the side of both communities, much can be achieved. the committee on missing persons can count not only on the commission’s political support but also on the financial support of the european union. under the aid programme for the turkish cypriot community, eur 1.5 million has been earmarked. this should come on stream shortly in line with the committee’s needs, and i hope that the work of the committee will help prepare the ground for the overall solution of the long-lasting conflict in cyprus. i take this opportunity to recall that monitoring of the implementation of the judgments of the european court of human rights falls under the responsibility of the committee of ministers of the council of europe. the commission follows the follow-up given to such judgments closely.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i should first like to thank the chairmen of the political groups for having placed the humanitarian issue of the missing in cyprus on the agenda of the plenary session as a matter of urgency, and all the political groups for having co-signed the resolution on the matter, which is due to be adopted tomorrow. i would like to thank mrs rothe, mr guardans, mr lagendijk and mrs kaufmann in particular for supporting my proposal from the outset to discuss this matter and to adopt a resolution on it. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are discussing today a purely humanitarian issue: the issue of the missing. we are not discussing the cyprus problem tonight. we are not discussing the problem of the military occupation of cyprus by turkey. we're not politicizing this. we are discussing a human drama; that of our lost fellow men. more than 2,000 people are listed as missing; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. an equal number of families, some with two or three missing persons, have been living with the anguish and pain of the loss of their loved ones for decades. the time has finally come for them to know, and they have the inalienable right, as the commissioner has said, to know whether their relatives are alive or dead and, if so, where they are buried. the time has come for all parties involved to put aside political expediency, fears and guilt and cooperate with the committee of inquiry into missing persons. the turkish government is particularly invited to provide the commission of inquiry with the data and information in its possession. implement the decision of the european court of human rights. but it is time for the european union to take an active role. the resolution which is expected to be adopted tomorrow marks the beginning of the involvement of the commission and the european parliament in this humanitarian matter. finally, i would like to express my deep appreciation to the members of the committee of inquiry for the difficult work they are doing. i welcome their presence here tonight in the european parliament and i hope and wish that the human tragedy of the relatives of the missing will end as soon as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, in cyprus we have for years been experiencing the tragedy of ignorance about the fate of some 2,000 of our turkish and greek cypriot compatriots who are missing. the relevant committee of inquiry into missing persons, which is composed of representatives of the turkish cypriots, the greek cypriots and the united nations, has already made progress in the matter of exhumation and identification of remains. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a purely humanitarian matter, which concerns our people as a whole, turkish cypriots and greek cypriots, and which no one should use to serve political or other ends. we believe that the member states should strengthen the work of the commission by increasing financial aid and we call on all parties to cooperate in order to determine the fate of all the missing. the case of the small greek cypriot reported to have been transferred to turkey in 1974 is an opportunity for cooperation. we believe that by resolving this humanitarian issue we will have taken another step in our efforts to resolve the cyprus problem.
mr president, i shall speak briefly only about the missing children of the 1974 cyprus tragedy. christakis georgiou, a five-year-old boy, was slightly injured after being shot inside his home by a turkish solider during the 1974 invasion. he was taken to a turkish military field hospital, and that was the last time he was seen by his mother. evidence that came to light 33 years later – including eye-witness accounts by turkish soldiers – strongly indicates that he was transported to turkey, where he was adopted by a turkish army officer who had no children of his own. the mother, who is now elderly, desperately wants to see him again before she dies. andreas kyriakou, a five-year-old boy, and his three-year-old twin sisters, maria and kika, were forcibly separated from their mother by turkish soldiers who attacked their village. they were taken, along with a group of other civilians, to a nearby field in the now occupied area of cyprus, from where shortly afterwards gunfire was heard. it is feared that they might have been executed in a frenzied reprisal. the turkish army has never given any information as to what happened to them. their mother hopes and prays that they might still be alive. if not, she begs to have their skeletal remains given to her so that she can give them a proper burial. the above are 4 out of the 30 children and the more than 1500 persons missing in similar circumstances after being taken into custody by the turkish army in 1974. the turkish government says nothing of their whereabouts or of the circumstances of their disappearance, despite the european court of human rights ruling of 10 may 2001 condemning turkey in the strongest possible terms for such behaviour, which, in the words of the court’s ruling, ‘attains a level of severity which can only be categorised as inhuman treatment’. commissioner, the affair of the missing persons is not a necrology issue. the relatives still hope that their loved ones might still be alive.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. the islands of the european union are indeed a crucial element in the context of cohesion policy for the period 2007-2013, and this is because most of them face difficulties that must be overcome in order not to be at a disadvantage in relation to the rest of the european union. thus, for an island like cyprus, for example, the difficulties faced are: higher prices due to the interaction of captive markets and additional transport costs, low wages due to levels of demand and opportunities, shortage of raw materials, increased energy costs, infrastructure deficiencies, limited range of activities and greater sensitivity to environmental risks that can impact tourism. however, the report has covered the wider context of these problems satisfactorily. but there is one problem in the report with which i do not agree, and that is immigration. by proposing stronger policing of the external borders, the creation of a coastguard and the suppression of so-called illegal immigration, we are stalling and not proposing viable solutions to a very big social problem, because we cannot at the same time advertise the european union as a world economic power and at the same time close our borders. the islands have a positive role to play in this respect, which is unfortunately not the role described in the report.
mr president, allow me to inform you that we have among us today the three members of the committee on missing persons for cyprus: mr christophe girod, the chairman of the committee, representing the un; mrs gülden plümer küçük, representing the turkish cypriots; and mr elias georgiades, representing the greek cypriots. all the members of the committee are here to obtain our support. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i thank you for the opportunity to set out the commission's position on the ban on seal products in the european union and to mention the actions already taken or planned. the seal hunt has been a subject of controversy and heated debate for many years. i fully agree that there are legitimate questions about seal hunting, regardless of where it takes place. however, it is encouraging that most seal populations appear to have stabilised and are not threatened in their natural habitat. this opinion is based on the available scientific evidence on the evolution of the populations of the greenland white-haired seal and the blue-haired seal. there is no scientific evidence of significant negative effects of hunting on the survival of these wildlife species. the seal population in the north-east atlantic has increased significantly since the early 1970s, from just 2 million to about 5.8 million white-haired seals, a species that is the main target during the annual hunting season. in other words, these seal populations are not currently threatened and therefore do not fall under the cites convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. for these seal species to be included in the cites convention, international trade would have to threaten their survival in their natural habitat. this should not, of course, prevent us from dealing with the other serious issue that arises in relation to the hunting of seals in many countries, including some member states of the european union, namely whether the import and export and the placing on the market of products from the hunting of seals should be prohibited if the hunting is not conducted in a manner consistent with the standards of animal welfare that we have set. that is why i agree that, even if we have not yet taken legislative action at european union level, the concerns expressed by the european parliament on animal welfare and in particular on seal hunting should be examined in detail. to this end we need to have the necessary information and data at our disposal and have therefore asked for an independent study to be carried out. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs of other member states. in accordance with the principles of good governance and legislation and the clear rules of the commission, sound scientific evidence and an impact study must be relied upon before any measures are considered. i have also instructed my services to consider the possibility of the commission carrying out a mission to inspect and observe the seal hunt in the 2007 hunting season. members of the european parliament may consider taking part in this mission. a full and objective evaluation of all aspects of this matter will enable us to make the right decisions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, sometimes i wonder how it is possible not to see the blindingly obvious, and then i think of the canadian government’s persistence in allowing an annual festival of blood-spilling carnage to be carried out on hundreds of thousands of defenceless baby seals. other times i wonder how it is possible not to have any feelings in the face of extreme cruelty, and then i think of the thousands of fashion-mad individuals who pay through the nose to wear seal fur, taken in many cases by skinning still-conscious animals. however, at no time do i wonder how it is possible not to hear what is deafeningly loud, neither do i ever wonder how it is possible not to understand what is comprehensively simple, because, with respect, commissioner, i have seen this happening only too often when it comes to the way in which the commission sometimes deals with the european parliament, and the subject matter under discussion here today is a good example. in september 2006, parliament called on the commission very clearly and very loudly to introduce an eu-wide ban on the trade of all seal products. six months later the commission is before us today telling us that, with seal killing being notoriously at the forefront of senseless cruelty to animals for so many years, it still needs more time to consider the matter further. being a close friend and ally of the commission and stretching our patience generously, i think we should give the commission more time, if that is what it wants, but, as other speakers have said, on the condition that, in the meantime, an immediate moratorium banning all seal products in the eu is put into effect. this is dictated by our firm conviction on the matter, the need to act quickly and the fact that some eu member states have already proceeded with national bans.
author. – mr president, madam commissioner, the european parliament has passed a number of resolutions on guatemala in the past. they have had some effect, but it seems that we are still a long way from achieving our aim of helping to bring true democratic reform to this country. the callous murder in mid-february 2007 of three members of the central american parliament and the alleged involvement in this and many other crimes of police officials is a reminder that impunity and police corruption in guatemala are still very much in existence. such gross deficiencies in democracy, along with attempts to curtail freedom of the press, are cancerous inflictions in the body of any society and drastic action must be taken urgently in order to remedy the situation. the guatemalan authorities have a lot to answer for and a huge responsibility to act decisively in order to protect their citizens’ rights and freedoms. we shall await and watch closely with a critical eye to see and be convinced that they have the will and the stamina to stamp out the criminals from the police force and from other state institutions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is another country on which numerous european parliament resolutions have previously been passed with, unfortunately, only limited success. cambodia has been plagued by human rights violations of extreme proportions and severity over many decades. the nightmare period of the khmer rouge rule and the mass-extermination massacres of civilians are still sickeningly vivid in our minds, but even today in cambodia respect for human rights and proper application of the rule of law are theoretical aspirations rather than applicable practical realities. the killing, on 24 february of this year, of the president of the free trade union of workers at the suntex garment factory and the apparent immunity that seems to be afforded to the psychopathic khmer rouge murderers are examples of the lack of will on the part of the cambodian authorities to take drastic action to correct the abominable situation as regards human rights abuses that still prevails in the country. it is hoped that these authorities will, on this occasion, take what the european parliament tells them very seriously indeed.
mr president, nigeria is a huge african country which, since the end of military dictatorship in 1999, has been struggling to accomplish modern-day democratic reforms. the forthcoming elections have once again brought issues relating to respect for human rights to the forefront of political debate. in this respect, the africa director of human rights watch has very pertinently commented: ‘nigeria needs leaders who will tackle the country’s appalling human rights problems.’ the issue of freedom of sexual orientation and the decriminalisation of homosexuality, albeit a sensitive one, is regarded by the developed world as important in relation to an individual’s freedom, as long as it does not infringe on other people’s freedoms. we call upon the nigerian authorities, and in particular the nigerian parliamentarians and senators, to bear this in mind when considering a relevant bill presently before them. this motion for a resolution should in no way be taken to mean that the homosexuality issue is regarded by the european parliament as taking precedence over other areas of concern, such as nigeria’s corruption epidemic or the abominable state of affairs with respect to the abusive behaviour by government security forces. nigeria needs to remedy these areas quickly too.
mr president, a couple of small but important wording errors have managed to creep into the resolution. i propose to correct them as follows: in recital b, to replace the word ‘authors’ with the word ‘perpetrators’, and in recital c, to replace the words ‘intellectual authors’ with the word ‘instigators’.
mr president, as you have to read six pages of names, in order to save time and to save you from the embarrassment of having to pronounce very strange names, can we take those names as having been read, rather than you actually reading them?
mr president, i would like to request a roll-call vote.
the situation in kosovo, madam president, the continuation and consequence of interventionist policies, is another problem which must be solved within the framework of the united nations. the akhtisaari proposal, which is essentially adopted in the report under consideration, is contrary to basic principles of international law, to the charter of the united nations itself, and provides for the falsification of borders and the distortion of the history of the region to the detriment of the serb community. the overall proposal from the commission is to promote the creation of an independent state, and to the extent that it is independent, with a nato military presence and the implementation of the european security policy. i fear it will function more as a protectorate than as an independent state. we have been and will continue to be in favour of selfdetermination of peoples, but not when it is used indiscriminately on the basis of two meters and two stations. we should only recall that after the process of decolonisation and before the partition of yugoslavia, the only recognition of secession by the international community for very specific reasons was that of bangladesh by pakistan. the european union must not allow the kosovo crisis to become a source of tension between the serbs and the serbs, and the serbs must not allow the situation to become a source of tension between the serbs and the serbs.
madam president, the rapporteur mr lagendijk and our shadow rapportuer mr posselt have certainly done an excellent job. however, i will not vote in favour of this report for reasons of general principle. i believe that such a dispute must be resolved by mutually negotiated agreed settlements by the parties concerned, and not through unilateral actions or impositions from the outside. a durable settlement necessitates the will of those who will implement it. i do not accept the notion of an independent state with limited sovereignty. an independent country is fully sovereign, or there is something wrong with it becoming independent. i am aware that the only realistic outcome for kosovo cannot be a return to serbian sovereignty, nor partition, nor union with any other country. the negotiating process may have lasted for a very long time, but the ahtisaari report was only published a few weeks ago. why do we conclude so soon that the positions of the parties are unbreachable? we should encourage them to understand that there is no other way but to negotiate within a reasonable time on the basis of that report. the commissioner said that commitment towards serbia can serve as a diplomatic tool in encouraging belgrade to mainstream its position towards the ahtisaari proposals. i think that the virtue of patience is a factor for international diplomacy.
madam president, yesterday was the 200th anniversary of the abolition of slavery. this brutal practice was related to the worldwide colonisation carried out mainly by european countries and, although slavery was terminated, colonisation persists. two eu member states, britain and france, still have colonies today. britain has 14 colonies and france many more. britain’s colonies, excluding british antarctica, total 50 000 km2 and are inhabited by 250 000 people. the french colonies total 123 000 km2 and are inhabited by 2.5 million people. while the political and human rights of the citizens of these colonies are being profoundly violated, the eu institutions are turning a blind eye. the european parliament is no exception. in none of the annual human rights reports adopted by parliament over the years is there the slightest mention of colonisation, and any attempts to introduce the subject by individual meps are met with complete refusal. how strange, or should i say, how hypocritical. we condemn human rights violations by every country in the world, except when it concerns our own member states. is this what the eu is about? shame!
mr president, i would like to condemn the arrest of a member of the european parliament, mr machakis, by the authorities of the british bases in cyprus during an official visit of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in the bus, which is a serious insult to the institution of the european parliament. these colonial attitudes on the part of a member state must stop, and please, mr president, ask for a reconsideration of the part of the agreement which excludes the territory of the british bases in cyprus from the european union. it is unacceptable for a member state to occupy the territory of another member state and for the european acquis not to apply there. the citizens who live in these areas are not europeans, mr president? this is unacceptable!
mr president, last week’s barbaric killing of three christian workers in turkey is part of a chain of recent acts of brutality against the christian minority in that country. such acts are connected by a clear common political cause: to stop turkey’s path towards europe. the orchestrators of these provocative actions are well known both in turkey and abroad. they are part of the deep state that prime minister erdogan has been bravely fighting for many years now. these dark forces are no less than the turkish army chiefs, for whom accession to the eu is anathema, as it means the termination of the army’s stranglehold on turkey’s political life. turkey is at a delicate turning point in its history and this house must send a strong message to the army generals in turkey that neither we nor the turkish people are fooled by their provocative acts. we stand firmly behind the democratic traditions of turkey and support the turkish people in their fight for a more democratic, peaceful and prosperous european future.
mr. president, there is only one city in the entire world that is a ghost town: uninhabited and in ruins. this is the city of sandcastle. this city is located in the republic of cyprus. the republic of cyprus is a member of the european union; the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. and sandbox is a hostage of the turkish occupation. all the residents have been fighting for thirty years and dream of going home. the petition for their return was signed last sunday. it is time, mr president, for the european union to stop whistling in indifference! it is time to put an end to the policy expressed by mr olli rehn that this is a matter for the united nations. it is a european issue and the european union must understand that the sandbox issue is a matter of consistency, credibility and prestige for it.
mr president, last week in belgium the management of general motors decided to lay off, by the end of the year, 1,400 of the 4,500 workers employed at a factory in the opel subsidiary in antwerp. the situation in the automobile industry has become tragic in belgium, as we all remember the layoffs at volkswagen in brussels last year. unfortunately, while this is happening, the european commission is standing by and simply reminding us that the lisbon strategy will lead us into economic nirvana. as elected representatives of the citizens of europe, we cannot remain indifferent to this social tragedy, whatever our political approach. i therefore call on my colleagues to organise themselves so that we can draw up a resolution condemning the mass layoffs and giving impetus to a social europe which at the moment exists only on paper.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, i too would like to stress that the purpose of this proposal is not to harmonize ethical or moral issues but to respect the national responsibilities of the member states with regard to the use or non-use of ethically sensitive products. such decisions should be taken on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity and remain the national competence of each member state. the personal, moral and ethical views of each of us do not conflict with this approach, since each member state will be responsible for deciding what kind of products it will allow to enter and which it will not. the crucial question is whether or not we accept europe deciding which products we should trade and which we should ban. my answer is no. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. in short, immediate application of the regulation would mean easier, faster and safer advanced treatments for european patients. europe needs this regulation and it needs it now.
mr president, the regulation of tissue engineering products is both a necessity and an inevitability in the present era of rapid biotechnological advances. such advances offer a potential cure for hitherto incurable diseases. but, as on many occasions in the past, one of the main obstacles to medical progress is not scientific limitations, but pseudo-ethical dogma born out of religious misunderstandings of god’s real wishes for mankind. such misconceptions have sadly changed very little since the dark ages’ comprehension of the physical world. accordingly, in these legislative discussions, we have again heard heated ethical disagreements and calls for the prohibition of anything to do with human embryonic stem cells, hybrid chimeras and payment for human tissue. i ask you, colleagues, what is ethically wrong in using an animal ovary into which human genetic material is inserted in order to produce a certain human chemical and save someone’s life? what is ethically wrong with a unique human tissue being obtained from a donor in return for payment in order to use it in the treatment of a child’s cancer? after all, what is less ethical: to use embryonic stem cells or hybrid chimeras and to allow payment, or to let a child to die?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report we are discussing contains some moderate political points, which are, however, overshadowed by negative technical points. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i will also focus on three other negative points: firstly, the union is constantly referred to as the most competitive and dynamic economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, there is disagreement about the increase in community expenditure on cohesion policy. the text refers to a ceiling of 1.18% of gdp. this means that parliament is becoming more royal than the king, since the european commission itself, on the basis of data for the 2000-2016 programming period, had indicated that 1.24% of gdp would be needed. more europe with less money is not possible and that is something we must point out. thirdly, it is the technical part which provides for some adjustments which will create a lot of problems. the text thus provides for the union to move from net financing to a system of loans on favourable terms. this is clearly problematic, as it will throw the union's already troubled regions into even greater economic problems. there is also mention of the concern that in some regions the targeting of community aid is unsuccessful, with the result that no improvement is achieved in these regions despite long-term financial support, resulting in the waste of community resources. it called for a maximum period for which regions could receive structural funding to be fixed, in order to avoid situations in which regions receiving community support for many years remain at the same low level of development. in this way we are promoting the 'your death, my life' approach, whereby the regions compete for community funding. that is not sustainable and we certainly cannot support it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, minister, commissioner, congratulations to professor andrejevs for his excellent report. aids is a major threat to global health, and oddly enough, it becomes even more so as the treatment of sufferers improves, because with improved treatment, patient survival also improves, and therefore the pool of infectivity grows. i wish to take this opportunity to home in on just one aspect: infection due to the use of infected needles by drug-users. many thousands of individuals are infected every year because of this. this problem can easily be dealt with at least in eu member states if only governments could understand the simple fact that drug addiction is a disease, not a criminal offence, and therefore proper measures should be taken so that drug-addicted individuals are given clean, uninfected needles to use in the treatment of their illness. this should be done under proper medical supervision and surveillance and without the involvement of the police or judicial authorities. i hope that eventually governments will use medical common sense, and not a police sledgehammer approach, in dealing with drug-addicted ill people. i am interested to hear the comments of the commissioner and the minister on this issue.
mr president, i would just like to point out that a mistake has been made which we would like to correct. it is in paragraph 2a. it starts ‘regrets the agreement reached on the financial framework 2007-2013, in particular the reductions in the structural funds from 0.47%’. it should be ‘0.41%’.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, as shadow rapporteur i would like, on behalf of the ppe-de group, to congratulate mr sterckx on his excellent report concerning the community vessel traffic monitoring and information system and express our support for it as it stands. on the particular issue of designated places of refuge, my comment is that it is correct to have this issue properly regulated all over the union, as it is easy – and unfortunately it has happened in the past – for member states to have the tendency to turn away vessels in distress, particularly tankers, out of a fear of the likelihood of disastrous pollution, and yet it has been proven that a major ecological catastrophe can be avoided if a vessel in distress and with limited damage can find refuge in designated places. i am sure that the member states can rise to this responsibility. the other important aspect of navigation safety – better interoperability of systems for improved information and communication – is also dealt with in this report. in the general context of the debate on maritime transport, our union is well motivated in terms of introducing regulations enhancing the safety of navigation, the protection of the environment – both maritime and of our shores – the protection of consumers and so on, as are dealt with in today’s reports and in some in the past. what i would also like to see happening, though, at the same time and in parallel, is a concerted effort on the part of the european union, as a global player this time, to work internationally through the imo and through other multilateral or bilateral agreements so that similar measures also apply at a global level around the world. this industry operates globally. our competitors should not be allowed to take advantage of our sensitivities at the expense of the competitiveness of our european commercial fleet.
author. – madam president, there is no doubt that palestinians in gaza are suffering greatly through the gross violation of their human rights by the dreadful siege situation imposed on them by the aggressive israeli government actions and the tolerance shown for such actions by western governments. at the same time, there is no doubt that the daily plight of the palestinian people is brought to public attention worldwide through the work of journalists. these journalists risk their lives in order to serve the cause of freedom of information and consequently assist in promoting the palestinian people’s fight for justice. the kidnapping of journalists such as alan johnston is, therefore, against the interests of the palestinian people and is severely damaging their just demands. we call upon the palestinian people to redouble their efforts to secure the release of alan johnston. we believe that in so doing they will be helping themselves most of all.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make a brief comment on behalf of the council and to express how much this matter concerns us all. on 12 march, bbc correspondent alan johnston was kidnapped in gaza. the foreign ministers' council last monday expressed great concern about mr johnston, who has now been missing for six weeks. we demand his immediate and unconditional release! mr johnston is an internationally respected journalist who has many friends in gaza and who has always been concerned to bring the situation there to the attention of the world public. his kidnapping is a criminal act that i can only condemn in the strongest terms. i would also like to express my sympathy to his family, who have been fighting for him and have been living in fear and uncertainty for over a month and a half. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. madam president, it has been more than six weeks since alan johnston was kidnapped, and the commission has expressed its solidarity with his family, friends and colleagues at this very difficult time. margot wallström, as vice-president of the commission, has made a public statement on the kidnapping of mr johnston on behalf of the whole college, expressing its deep concern over his plight and calling for his immediate release. this week, the kidnapping was condemned by the council, which has called for mr johnston’s unconditional release. furthermore, yesterday, my colleague louis michel also raised the issue of the abduction of the bbc journalist during a meeting with the palestinian deputy prime minister, mr al-ahmad. he asked him to use all his influence and contacts and to do everything in his power to locate mr johnston. the deputy prime minister assured mr michel that he would do all he could to secure a rapid release. commissioner michel also repeated those requests in his meetings with other palestinian interlocutors during his trip to the region. intensive coordinated diplomatic efforts are under way for an immediate release of mr johnston. our staff in jerusalem are following developments closely and inform us that the palestinian authorities, in cooperation with the security forces, are discussing all possible options with the uk government, with a view to a successful outcome. this remains a high priority for president abbas, and we note the public statements that have also been made by prime minister haniyeh, as well as by mr barghouti, on behalf of palestinian prisoners, and by palestinians around the world, condemning this kidnapping. clearly, the kidnapping of a prominent journalist like alan johnston, who has done so much to bring the situation of palestinians to the world’s attention, is particularly distressing. those responsible for this abduction are doing a disservice to the cause of the palestinian people and to the peace process in the middle east. (applause)
author. – madam president, the human rights situation in the philippines is bad and it is getting worse. reports of extrajudicial killings, illegal detentions, torture, threats and harassment of politicians, trade unionists, students, religious and human rights workers are received with increasing frequency by international human rights organisations. the government of the philippines appears unable, and at many times unwilling, to proceed with the necessary determination, both in investigating these human rights violations and in prosecuting the perpetrators vigorously and effectively. in this motion for a resolution we wish to express our grave concern to the philippines government at the sorry and worrisome state of affairs in their country. at the same time, we want to send a strong signal that the eu will not stand idle and watch the human rights situation continuing to deteriorate in the philippines. we will take the necessary measures if matters do not follow a remedial course as soon as possible.
madam president, the recent freak nationalist demonstrations, largely organised and supported by the turkish army, are regrettably beginning to be exported from turkey to the turkish-army occupied northern part of cyprus. such a demonstration took place last saturday in the turkish-army occupied cypriot town of morfou. extreme nationalist organisations such as the so-called ‘grey wolves’ held banners saying ‘we are not cypriots; we are turkish’, ‘cyprus is turkish and so it will remain for ever’ and ‘oh, what a great blessing it is to be turkish!’. it is noted that this demonstration happened while the turkish army and navy were illegally holding military exercises in the northern part of cyprus. it is evident that the turkish army generals are now attempting once again to frighten and intimidate the cypriot population – both of turkish and of greek origin – in order to promote their political aims in turkey. the recent warning message sent by the president of parliament to the army chiefs in ankara was timely and proper. in view of the aforementioned developments, i call upon the president to send a second message emphasising the need for the turkish army generals to stop their policy of promoting intimidation and nationalistic hatred on the island of cyprus.
the rapporteur. madam president, the report we are about to vote on concerns the halting of biodiversity loss by 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why so few amendments have been tabled by my colleagues and why the report was unanimously adopted by the committee on the environment. i would like to congratulate the commission on its communication, on its conceptual approach, on the priority objectives for 2007-2008 and on the key support measures. however, at this point i must express my deep concern about the continued loss of biodiversity and the consequent degradation of ecosystem services. i believe we all recognise the urgent need to make efforts to meet the commitments made to halt the loss of biodiversity in the european union by 2010. the action programme is an important instrument and a last chance to bring actors at community and member state level closer together on key actions to meet the 2010 commitments. i recognize, however, that the action programme is not sufficient to preserve biodiversity and support ecosystem services on a longer term basis. secondly, i must stress that it is extremely important to complete the natura 2000 network on land and at sea in order to ensure that it is managed effectively and that it is adequately funded. i would also stress the importance of the timely and effective implementation of the water framework directive in order to achieve good ecological status of freshwater. i urge member states to ensure that projects funded by the cohesion fund and the structural funds do not harm biodiversity and ecosystem services but optimise the benefits for biodiversity. on another matter, we need to recognise and address the fact that invasive alien species are a major threat to biodiversity and that the spread of invasive alien species is exacerbated by the increasing movement of people and goods. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i call on the commission and the member states to take immediate action to adopt measures to prevent or minimise the negative impact of this trade on tropical forests. the commission should present as soon as possible an analysis of options for extending the legislation to limit the import of illegally harvested timber. climate change is a very important chapter and a separate policy objective in the commission document. it is of the utmost importance to develop an ecosystem approach to climate change adaptation, in particular with regard to policies that affect the use of the land, water and marine environment. as regards funding, i cannot hide my disappointment and deep concern at the financial constraints on the financing of all biodiversity actions resulting from decisions on the budgetary perspective. it is the responsibility of the member states to make full use of the opportunities provided under the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy, the cohesion fund and the structural funds as well as the life+ programme and the seventh framework programme and to allocate national resources. greater attention should be paid to financial needs in the 2008-2009 budget review, which should assess the adequacy and availability of european funds for biodiversity, and in particular for natura 2000. i would like to thank the two colleagues, mrs avril doyle and mrs marie anne isler béguin, for their amendments, and in particular mrs béguin for adding hydroelectricity to paragraph 67 which i had omitted to do. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the conclusions of the study we requested on biodiversity from the committee on the environment: the commission has also been active in the field of biodiversity conservation, and has been involved in the development of the european union's biodiversity strategy. the european union's action programme up to 2010 is very ambitious but unfortunately it does not offer any tangible solutions to the problem of implementation, the lack of financial resources and the political will on the part of the member states. it is up to us to send a strong message and put pressure on our governments so that the ambitious objectives of the action programme become a reality.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is not indifferent to these unspeakable events taking place in palestine today. the commission has not yet taken any action to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. twenty days ago, parliament's delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council paid an official visit to palestine. our visit came at a historic moment for the palestinian question: after the emergence of a new government that was the product of free and democratic elections. a government which, although it had the support of 60% of the electorate, when challenged by the united states and the european union, did not hesitate to share power with other political forces in order to form, under the undisputed leader of the palestinian authority, abu mazen, a government of national unity, thus faithfully obeying the resolutions of the arab league. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. and we got, as my colleagues said, clear answers: we recognize, we were told, israel's right to exist within the 1967 borders. it is enough that it recognizes our right to create our own state alongside israel. we reject violence. we recognize all the agreements concluded between israel and the plo. it's within our immediate priorities to free johnson. we're working on salit's release as part of a prisoner exchange. but in order to be able, we were told, to realize our ambitions, we need your help. the political and economic embargo must be lifted immediately. so i end with an appeal to israel and one to the palestinians: - first, to stop firing missiles at his opponents and to release all the elected representatives of the palestinians. - and to the second group to stop firing rockets into israeli territory. but i would also like to make a request to the council and the commission: i would like to ask you to recognize immediately the new democratically elected government of national unity of president abbas. i would like to see an immediate end to the policy of selective approach to certain members of this government. end the political and economic embargo immediately. engage vigorously in a constructive dialogue with the entire national unity government. support this government so that it can negotiate peace. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
mr president, as a child i was happy to believe that all people were equal. growing into a young man i was very upset to realise how wrong i was: that there were in fact two kinds of people – those whose lives matter and those whose lives do not matter. then, i became involved in politics and i was taught that what was really important was not what is right but what brings in votes. today, as an mep, i have finally formed the opinion – simplistic and cynical as it may sound to some – that there are indeed two kinds of people: those liked by the american government and those who are not. based on this view, the palestinian people can be humiliated, starved, imprisoned without trial, tortured, executed, etc. and it does not really matter, because the bush administration and their obedient servants, e.g. the ‘blairinos’ of this world, consider palestinians to be subhuman. therefore, why waste our time debating palestine when we know that nothing significant will come of it? if we really care about the issue, then we should address our efforts towards the planet’s grand master, mr bush, and try to convince him that palestinians are in fact human. if we succeed, which i very much doubt, then perhaps we can contribute constructively towards solving the palestinian problem.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the fact that it promotes the concept of decent work in accordance with the institutional position of the international labour organisation is, in my view, a positive element. however, there is still a lot of work to be done in terms of the concept of decent work and the application of this concept to all the external policies of the european union. the balance between economic growth and social and labour developments presents a unique challenge for the union today. it is therefore necessary to assess very closely the trends in the labour market, not only in terms of the level of employment but also in terms of the nature and quality of employment, in other words, decent work. finally, we must, as the european union, ensure that the promotion of gender equality continues to be pursued within the framework of decent work policy through integrated and better coordinated global action on non-discrimination and equality.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i congratulate mr newton dunn on his excellent report. in order to make this report and the level of debate associated with it even more practically useful and perhaps more controversial, i would like to take the opportunity, to address one issue which, although dealt with in the report and referred to by the commissioner, in my view needs to be further elaborated upon. i refer to the issue of money laundering. money laundering constitutes the oxygen supply to organised crime. legitimising crime profits is essential for crime barons to survive and expand their illegal activities. i question whether the eu, despite its frequent criticism of money laundering, is in fact doing very much to combat it. my thesis is demonstrated by the following example. a vast amount of money laundering is taking place through institutions based and functioning in areas such as the channel islands, in particular guernsey and jersey. these islands have a rather peculiar status as regards their relation to the eu. the british government, although fully aware of the money laundering problem associated with these islands, conveniently turns a blind eye to such activities under the pretext that these areas enjoy a certain degree of autonomy from british sovereignty. the same applies to institutions based on other british overseas territories or british crown dependencies. such territories are the isle of man and the british virgin islands. i note that in 2000 kpmg reported that the british virgin islands had 41% of the world’s tax-haven-seeking offshore companies. i call upon the commission to make a statement in relation to the aforementioned money laundering activities in british-related territories and to declare before us what action it intends to take, in particular with regard to the british government, in order to halt the money laundering legitimacy cover-up currently afforded to the areas i have mentioned.
mr president, i would like to inform the house that last night the israeli authorities arrested a number of elected representatives of the plc, including a minister of the abbas government. i would therefore ask you, president, to condemn this israeli action and to make a strong statement against their practice of arresting elected representatives of the palestinian people. this is not the way to go forward with the peace process. (applause)
author. – mr president, rctv is a privately-owned tv station, which has been operating in venezuela for more than half a century. rctv’s history is, unfortunately, stigmatised mainly by its alleged controversial role in the april 2002 attempted coup in venezuela. this is seen as the main reason behind the recent national telecommunications commission’s decision, supported by a supreme tribunal decision, not to renew rctv’s broadcast licence. against this position, one has to set the upholding of the principle of freedom of the press and of media plurality. i admit the situation here is not black and white and the line separating one side of opinion from another is very fine, but only by a tiny margin we consider the freedom of the press prevails and any alleged ill-doing by the rctv station must be properly substantiated in a court of law. consequently, my group supports the resolution as it stands.
author. – mr president, the annual report on the human rights situation in syria for 2006 makes very grim reading indeed. scores of arbitrary arrests and detentions of political opposition figures, reformists and human rights and civil society activists have taken place. in addition, documented reports of torture used as a routine and systematic interrogation method of extracting confessions are found in abundance. furthermore, corrupt members of the syrian judiciary, both civil and military, have been passing draconian sentences, including life incarceration and death sentences, influenced mainly by political motives. we call upon the syrian government, in the face of international condemnation, to at last make a serious effort to improve respect for the human rights of its citizens or face the consequences, which i hope, with some reservation, will be forthcoming and drastic.
author. – mr president, sudan is perhaps best known for the conflict in darfur, in which human rights abuses have reached gigantic proportions. however, sudan is also a state where respect for human rights in general is seriously lacking throughout the country. this motion for a resolution reminds us again of the anachronistic and primitive judicial system applicable in sudan, a system that allows the sentencing of women to death by stoning if found guilty of adultery and the sentencing of children to death. it is truly hard to believe that in the 21st century there are still governments that continue to tolerate and support such extraordinarily barbaric systems. we understand that sudan is a very poor country, with many political and economic problems, but such problems should not be an excuse for not following a course of common-sense-guided progress towards upholding universal values of justice and democracy. furthermore, we find it difficult to accept how religion can interfere to such drastic and occasionally sadistic effect in matters of criminal and civil law. we wish to send a strong message to the sudanese government that our patience is running out and the limits on our tolerance have long been exceeded. we demand that they implement an urgent revision of their judicial system, taking into consideration international law, un conventions and respect for the human rights of the sudanese people. we trust this will be done speedily, in order to avoid having to resort to more drastic persuasive measures.
mr president, there has been a decision by the conference of presidents to follow this particular procedure. these matters have been placed on the agenda and i think that we should continue. i do not see why we are prevented from continuing our work.
author. – mr president, mr wolfowitz belongs to the powerful iraq war bush gang. it was therefore no surprise to anyone that in june 2005 uncle sam appointed him to the lucrative post of president of the world bank. what was surprising was the sheer audacity exhibited by this individual in provocatively arranging a generous pay increase for his girlfriend, and even more surprising was the shameless way in which he fought to stay in office, despite the worldwide outcry against him. needless to say, during this fight he had the full backing of president bush, himself not unaccustomed to shameful behaviour. the wolfowitz affair may now be over, but the stench associated with the bush administration’s corrupt and evil running of the world remains firmly stuck to our nasal smell receptors. let us hope and pray that, for the sake of the american people as well as for the rest of the world, soon enough mr bush and his warmongering associates will also find their way out of office. in adopting this motion for a resolution, we wish the world bank good riddance to mr wolfowitz, and may better days ensue.
mr president, it is not the rules of procedure that are wrong but the fact that colleagues from our groups leave early. they should be here to vote! (applause)
madam president, i should like to congratulate mr brok and mr crespo, who have succeeded in combining vision with reality in their report. the vision is to preserve the basic elements of the constitutional treaty. the reality is that we must find, by talking and negotiating among ourselves, a new compromise. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have rightly stressed that human rights cannot be absent from this text - whatever text is found - and that is very correct, as are the other elements you have mentioned. this parliament, ladies and gentlemen, must take the lead in trying to find a solution and a way out of the constitutional crisis facing the european union. the european union cannot continue the footsteps it is taking today. the challenges of globalisation are such that if it is not taken forward, quickly and correctly, it will not be able to play the role it needs to play in the foundation of our principles and values. ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about compromise. when we talk about compromise, we must be balanced and realistic. the 18 states and the four states which are going to ratify the constitution as it stands cannot be prepared to compromise and the other states and the citizens of the other states talk of an unrelenting struggle for some of the points on which they are based. we must be right and we must be fair. that goes for everybody. and for those who have approved the constitutional treaty and for those who have some skepticism. in conclusion, madam president, i believe that the european union cannot continue in this way, but must move forward, must give its citizens a future, must give this union a future, in order to move forward.
mr president, we, as members of the european parliament, have decided to express our solidarity vis-à-vis our palestinian colleagues imprisoned by israel. symbolically, 45 meps demonstrated this support by collectively sponsoring the 45 palestinian members of parliament. as elected representatives, we cannot but condemn the imprisonment of the president and of one third of the members of the palestinian legislative council. we ask for their immediate and unconditional release. we continue to appeal for a european parliament delegation to be sent and for all the necessary steps to be taken in order to achieve this aim. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, respect for human rights is of universal value and importance and is of course a fundamental principle of the eu. this house, not surprisingly, pays particular attention to this principle, as shown by the regular production of reports and resolutions dealing with human rights violations around the world. it was with great sadness that for years we watched the rather ineffective work of the human rights commission, and it was with much relief that we welcomed, approximately a year ago, the replacement of the human rights commission by the human rights council. in the words of a human rights watch representative, the human rights commission in effect became the abusers’ club, because abusive governments were eager to be part of it in order to block action on themselves and on countries elsewhere. unfortunately, our hopes for changes for the better were somewhat shaken after the council elections, when angola, egypt and qatar gained seats. those three countries have a well-known, atrocious record of human rights abuses. the non-election of belarus to the council was a relief, although this occurred only by a tiny margin. during the human rights council’s first year, we have seen some changes which have improved its function, but it has to be said that these changes were not spectacular. we expect and hope that more promising improvements are on the way. the geneva-based council has so far shown eagerness to deal with worldwide problems promptly and repeatedly if necessary, but the effectiveness of its work has to be looked at more critically. an example is the fact that last year the council adopted no less than eight resolutions criticising israel for its military actions in the palestinian territories in lebanon. these resolutions had some, but not much, usefulness in practical terms. this is not the fault of the un human rights council, but that council has to assume some responsibility for not finding ways to make its voice heard more seriously. other examples include the council’s problematic dealings with uzbekistan and iran. as the next session of the council is due to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, we are today in principle in favour of an agreement on the exchange of information between the security services of the member states on strictly personal data. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including the introduction of a new system of reference for the calculation of the value of the goods. the convention also includes provision for joint action by police and special forces of two or more states at events of international significance, both political and sporting, where demonstrations and rallies are to take place. at the same time, a third member state may hand over the dna data, fingerprints and other personal data of the suspect. the most dangerous, however, is the legalization of the presence of foreign agents and their activities in a third member state. the right of entry into the territory of a contracting state by forces is granted in emergency situations at any time and in the absence of any local authority. i would ask my colleagues to be very careful in the way they vote. we must not sacrifice our civil liberties in the name of fighting terrorism.
mr president, it is clear from the debate, both today and on other occasions, that we all agree that everything possible must be done to combat terrorism, organised crime and immigration. we all agree that there must be police and judicial cooperation if we are to achieve anything in this area. and we all agree that in order to combat crime, terrorism and immigration across borders, information must be exchanged between the competent authorities in each member state. what are we arguing about? what is the focus of our disagreement? it focuses on the point that we must pay attention to the human rights chapter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. the question is, where do we draw the line of balance between the public and private interest? i am of the opinion that, because we are all sensitive to the issue of human rights, there is no need for an auction. the auction that some people are trying to create or present in this chapter is offensive. i would like to say this: academic debate is unnecessary in the face of reality. the ancient latins said "primum vivere, deinde philosophari" which means "to live first, to live philosophically". crime, terrorism, illegal immigration are there, so we have to find ways to deal with this situation without violating the principle and the right of human rights protection. i think that both rapporteurs and the rapporteur have presented balanced reports, so i congratulate them and i ask the house to avoid prejudice and to support these reports.
mr president, i wish to refer to last friday’s reality show on organ donation on a dutch tv station. prior to the broadcasting of the show the relevant dutch minister said in a statement to his parliament that the programme was inappropriate and unethical. however, the dutch prime minister in a press conference referred to the constitutional right to freedom of expression, as a result of which government action to interfere with the programme’s content was impossible. the show went ahead and at the end it was revealed that it was a hoax. freedom of expression is important and must be safeguarded. however, openly and consistently lying to the public, using such an emotive subject in order to gain publicity, is a gross abuse of such freedom. i call on the president of this house to use his good offices in order to take the appropriate action he deems necessary so that such unacceptable and dangerous behaviour by the press is not allowed to occur again. in answer to mrs krupa, let me say that brain-dead patients are dead and cannot be killed, but their organs can save the lives of many sick people.
mr president, at the end of this week the german presidency is going to present to us the conclusions of the debate on the institutional change of the treaties. it seems that poland and the czech republic are reacting to the way the council votes by preferring a system that gives more power to the smaller member states. at the same time, a poll in a reputable english newspaper concluded that a strong majority of voters in five important member states, germany, france, the united kingdom, spain and italy, strongly want to be asked by referendum about a new treaty on european union. the same survey also showed that support for further enlargement of the union is waning. in france and germany, the majority of respondents opposed turkey's accession to the union. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter, and i hope that the council will take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter.
mr president, getting rid of mines laid in cyprus in 1974 in the buffer zone between the invading turkish army and the defending cypriot forces is a step towards peace. the process started approximately one year ago with the assistance of the eu. minefields to which access was possible from the cypriot-government-controlled area have now been cleared, but demining in areas for which the turkish army’s permission is necessary has not taken place because the generals in ankara disagree. it is difficult to understand why turkey, which has the second largest army in europe after russia, is afraid of tiny cyprus. last friday, the un security council stated in recital 8 of a unanimous resolution extending the mandate of the un force in cyprus: ‘regretting that demining activity in the buffer zone has stalled, welcoming the provision by the european union of funds to support these activities, and urging the turkish forces and the turkish cypriot side to allow the resumption of demining activities’. mr president, could you please add your voice to that of the un security council in urging the turkish government to allow the un peacekeepers to proceed with their work of demining in the cypriot buffer zone?
madam president, almost everybody knows that true equality in the 27 member states is but an elusive dream. this is particularly so in the field of health care, and it is most obvious when dealing with complex neurodegenerative disorders such as ms, which require highly specialised diagnosis and treatment centres. yet, in this most important area for citizens’ wellbeing, namely their health, our treaties let us down disappointingly, as they place this area under the sole competence of member states. strangely enough, those responsible for making and maintaining the eu treaties seem to care more about equality in business and marketing matters than about our health. perhaps this debate on ms will lead to some wiser thinking and be the catalyst for changing this unsatisfactory and, in many respects, shameful state of affairs for the benefit of our citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, i should like to express my sincere congratulations to mr papadimoulis for his excellent report, and i wish to thank him for cooperating with the shadow rapporteurs. in general terms, the rapporteur has sought to make the commission’s proposal somewhat more strict, rightly so in some aspects. however, in two areas, such a position seems neither entirely wise nor realistic. the first area relates to bringing the proposed deadline date forward to 2009. in our view, this is impractical and unobtainable. we feel that we should keep to the 1 january 2010 deadline, as we previously decided in the mercury strategy. the second area is more controversial, that of the storage of metallic mercury. in my view, the controversy arises largely because of the confusion as to what temporary and permanent storage really mean in practice. the line i support is that if storage can be achieved in local salt mines or other approved suitable places, under strict conditions with complete monitoring and safety guarantees for thousands of years, then this is good enough for me. there is no need to specifically stipulate in this piece of legislation the obligation to retrieve this mercury and transport it across europe to a new, more permanent storage facility. if the legislators of the future take into consideration any new technological advancements which make it safe for stored mercury to be treated in a particular way or moved to a new location, then i am sure this can and will be done whatever we put in this legislation now. in conclusion, let us use common sense and keep things simple and in perspective. until recently, mercury was and, in many cases, still is in every household and in every doctor’s and dentist’s surgery, as well as in every hospital in the form of thermometers, barometers, sphygmomanometers, tooth fillings, etc. we need to get rid of mercury, but it is neither a highly contagious lethal virus nor a nerve gas compound which is deadly on near touch. therefore, in dealing with the amendments to this report, let us try not to exaggerate and not to go over the top with our demands.
madam president, the proposal for a directive under consideration promotes uncertainty, adaptation to easy dismissal, retraining and employment in other work on uncertain terms, on the basis of one-sided market needs, rather than full, permanent, regulated work with benefits. the european commission, however, is bringing the proposal back, playing a political game at the expense of the citizens to secure its adoption. the proposal aims to reduce what it considers to be obstacles to free movement between member states and to mobility within a member state, created by certain provisions of supplementary pension schemes. these obstacles concern the conditions for acquiring pension rights, the conditions for maintaining retirement rights which have been set aside, and the possibility of transferring vested rights. all of this, of course, is downward adjusted. for these reasons, unfortunately, we will not support this proposal.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr langen, and the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their positive report on the accession of my country, cyprus, and of course malta, to the euro area. i would also like to thank mr almunia for the help he has given cyprus - all this time - in achieving this objective. in spite of the limited time allowed by the commission to parliament, and despite the reactions that have been received, mr langen has shown a high sense of responsibility, has avoided procedural issues and, i repeat, has shown the ability to arrive at a substantive conclusion in his positive report. thank you again, mr. langen. the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is today rewarding cyprus for its long-term efforts to consolidate its economy and bring it into line with the european union's indicators. the european parliament gives the third institutional green light for the adoption of the euro by cyprus. the introduction of the euro in cyprus brings the euro into the middle east. it is a monetary link between europe and the arab countries via cyprus. the european union's monetary area extends from brussels to the easternmost point of the mediterranean. cyprus has always had a strong economy and even in the difficult years after the military invasion and occupation of the northern part of cyprus by turkey and the loss of its basic economic resources, it was able to develop a strong economy. so what needs to be done by 1 january 2008 on the part of cyprus for full economic integration and convergence, it will have to be done and you can be sure it will be done. as regards the observation by eurostat that it has provided incomplete data, we are satisfied with mr almunia's clarification. i hope that by 1 january 2008 the necessary basis will have been laid for a proper solution to the cyprus problem and for the political, social and economic reunification of cyprus, so that the euro will become the currency of all cypriots, turkish cypriots and greek cypriots. the european union has an obligation to take the initiative in this direction.
mr president, the eurozone is another important institution, bringing european nations closer to each other and further connecting our people’s wellbeing and prospects in the common future of a united europe. for this reason, the citizens i represent as a cypriot mep rejoice at the decision of the committee on economic and monetary affairs to approve the commission’s proposal to proceed with the adoption of the euro by cyprus on 1 january 2008. i of course note with regret that paragraph 7b of the report’s explanatory statement somewhat erroneously states that the cypriot government has infringed the provisions of regulation (ec) no 501/2004 of 10 march 2004 on providing eurostat with full information on quarterly accounts for general government. yesterday, i wrote to the cypriot finance minister and to the commission on this subject. i welcome the speedy correction made by commissioner almunia, both to me in writing and here this morning. i wonder whether it would also be possible for a suitable correction and clarification to be made in the report, even at this late stage. i should appreciate the assistance of the rapporteur in doing this. cyprus’s adoption of the euro will, in addition to everything else, have two further beneficial effects. firstly, it will bring turkey closer to europe as, on a practical level, the euro will replace the turkish lira as the currency used in the turkish-occupied northern part of cyprus. secondly, it will bring europe closer to the united kingdom, as the euro will be the currency used by the civilian population living in the two british colonies in cyprus, akrotiri and dhekelia. in these areas, the pound – albeit the cyprus pound, a colonial version of the mighty british pound – will be replaced by the euro. these colonies will be the first official british territory on which the euro will be the currency of general use. in the future, the euro may even gradually extend from the colonies to the british mainland, undoubtedly to the joy of all the british meps in this house, of whom, incidentally, i do not see many. in conclusion, i call on all my colleagues to support this report and i take this opportunity to extend an invitation to you all to visit cyprus in 2008, to enjoy cypriot hospitality and to spend your euros freely in the sun.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner ferrero-waldner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the illegal arms trade and the irresponsible export control policies of some states fuel conflicts worldwide, undermine respect for human rights, and promote crime and terrorism. they also impede the sustainable economic development of entire regions. it is against this background that the idea arose some years ago to establish binding global principles for the arms trade in a treaty. the idea of the att was born. the member states of the european union have been advocating such an agreement from the outset, and the current council presidency is also attaching great importance to this process. at a meeting on 18 june the general affairs and external relations council reiterated the importance of an arms trade agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. the presidency shares mr romeva's view that such an agreement is of the utmost importance in order to subject the world arms trade to legally binding and responsible rules. an important step was the adoption of resolution 61/89 by the united nations general assembly on 6 december 2006. it invites the secretary-general to examine the positions of the member states of the united nations and to establish an expert group by 2008. their task will be to explore the feasibility, scope and elements of such a contract. a number of eu member states participated in the drafting of the resolution in the run-up to the general assembly and lobbied third countries for its adoption. some 80 countries, including all eu member states, have so far responded to the un secretary-general's call. in its own eu statement to the secretary-general, the presidency of the council highlighted the eu code of conduct as a positive example of international cooperation in arms export control and promoted an arms trade treaty. the presidency, together with other eu member states, continues to promote the submission of national papers. a large number of positive comments is of particular importance to demonstrate the high level of support the project enjoys worldwide. the success of such an agreement will depend not only on ensuring the participation of all the major arms exporters but also on involving their importers. the united nations is therefore the right place for these negotiations. let me point out, by way of example, two areas to which the expert group must pay particular attention if such an agreement is to be effective: first, the scope of the convention must be broken down in detail. this will require a separate checklist. this should not be limited to the categories of the un weapons register, but should also apply to small arms and light weapons, ammunition and manpads, for example. production equipment and technology should also be considered in an appropriate manner. secondly, the agreement must also contain detailed criteria to be taken into account in export decisions. these criteria include, inter alia, compliance with arms embargoes, respect for human rights in the country of destination, the preservation of regional stability, the prevention of internal or regional conflicts, the promotion of sustainable development and the prevention of undesirable diversion of goods. these questions have been addressed by numerous regional organisations worldwide. the european union code of conduct on arms exports is the most developed international instrument for arms export control. the european union can therefore draw on its experience of the code of conduct, particularly in these matters. however, it must avoid giving the impression that it is imposing the eu code of conduct on other un member states. finally, there is a remarkable amount of support for this project in all parts of the world. the european union, which includes some major exporting nations, has a particular responsibility in this process. let me also give special praise to the role of civil society: ngos, academics and the media have played a significant role in convincing reluctant governments of the need for an arms trade agreement. they have provided valuable input and input from the outset and i encourage the ngos to continue to play an active part in this process. the presidency welcomes the fact that the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for the conclusion of a global arms trade agreement and is using its interparliamentary contacts to this end. i have read with great interest the recent draft resolution and i welcome the proposals which have been put forward. i very much hope that we can continue and deepen the intensive dialogue with the european parliament on this important issue. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, i would just like to add a few words to those of the president-in-office of the council. over the last few years, the fight against the illicit spread of weapons has been the focus of much political and public attention and the issue remains of great importance to all of us. let me commend the honourable members on the leadership they are showing on the legally binding arms trade treaty to regulate the international trade in conventional arms. it is an ambitious approach proposing common international standards. i understand your motion for a resolution has already been submitted. the commission also welcomes the council conclusions of two days ago; i need not go into those in detail, because they have already been mentioned. we all recognise the negative impact of irresponsible exports of military equipment on regional security, economic development and human safety in some of the most vulnerable parts of the world. an arms trade treaty would be of great value, for instance in reducing the illicit spread of small arms and light weapons. these weapons result in considerable human misery and, in making the world less safe, they affect our own security and prosperity. the illicit trade in conventional weapons also has global consequences, which means we must enhance the coherence between eu security policy and community development assistance. development and security are linked more closely than ever, and the threat these illicit weapons present goes beyond the immediate violence they cause. in this globalised world of ours, lost gdp and reduced foreign investment, for instance, represent failed opportunities few countries can afford. even with an arms trade treaty, countless illicit weapons would remain in circulation around the world. in addition to the union’s strong political engagement, we are therefore providing practical support for legislative and administrative capacity-building, giving the eu a significant role in the fight against the illicit spread of small arms and light weapons. we are fully engaged in the implementation of the 2005 eu strategy against the illicit spread of small arms and light weapons. this area, as you know, is not new to us. the commission has been fully involved in it for many years and has also gained experience working with international organisations, academia, ngos and civil society in dealing with the consequences of inappropriate or illegal arms sales. much remains to be done, both through the treaty and outside it. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is truly shameful that, despite the perils brought to humanity by the numerous irresponsible arms transfers carried out for so many years, we still do not have a legally binding un treaty on international arms trade. however, even if we had, i doubt if we would have had the means, or that those who matter would have had the will, to closely monitor and implement it properly, but we should concern ourselves with this once we have a un treaty in place. today, the most unscrupulous and murderous worldwide may easily possess arms. with enough money and the right connections, anything may be purchased, from a hand gun to a jet fighter plane. it is probably only a matter of time before even nuclear weapons may be purchased on the open market. why, you may ask, should there be such a despicable state of affairs in our 21st century society? the answer is quite simple: there will always be deranged individuals in this world who want to inflict their pathologically criminal plans on others and, similarly, there will always be evil traders who supply the means for death and destruction to anybody, as long as they are able to make a handsome profit. i must be mentioned here that the arms industry’s highly lucrative enterprises continuously produce more advanced killing machines in greater numbers and at an ever-increasing pace. i know that we cannot change the world overnight and the forces of evil will always have their share of determining the fate of our fellow human beings. however, one must at least try to make a start to change things to some extent. in this way, i support this motion for a resolution which calls for the establishment of common international standards for the import, export and transfer of conventional weapons. after all, it is better than nothing, and let us hope that one day human beings will have enough common sense to realise that there is no need to produce weapons at all. in conclusion, i find it noteworthy to mention that, of the 17 leading arms exporters, more than half are eu member states. let this statistic be food for thought for all of us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i want to congratulate mrs kratsas - although i disagree with her on some points - on her hard work. i will not agree with mr hatzmarkakis, i will oppose mr hatzmarkakis, and i will point out the responsibilities which you, madam commissioner, as the representative of the european commission, have for the chaotic situation which prevails today in palestine. you are responsible for not allowing a process to work to funnel any financial aid to a government called national unity. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the palestinians are not left behind in the conflict, and that the palestinians are not left behind in the conflict. i would ask you, commissioner, to accept that there are responsibilities and to take them on.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i offer my congratulations to the rapporteur on her excellent report on this most important subject, which affects, either directly or indirectly, the lives of all citizens. numerous studies tell us that juvenile delinquency is on the increase in europe and this is a most depressing and worrying modern-day phenomenon, which seriously threatens our society’s future. something must be done to stop and, if possible, reverse this trend. mrs batzeli has dealt with the problem in detail covering areas of aetiology, prevention and treatment of delinquency. i consider the preventive approach to be of particular importance and, in this respect, the roles of the mother, the father, the family in general, the school and society are extremely relevant. at this point, i wish it to be noted that, in my view, it is not the role of women but of mothers that is of concern in this context. i also wish to point out that the role of the father is just as important and should perhaps be included in the title of the report. i also note with regret that this report was adopted at committee level by women only in what i understand, and i stand to be corrected on this, is an all-women committee. why that is so in institutional and practical terms i fail to fully comprehend. nonetheless, i would have expected more input from men in the committee deliberations on this report. why this was not so, i do not know. it seems that juvenile delinquency is, to some extent at least, a side effect of so-called modern living and the demands put on parents by their complex socio-economic needs. perhaps in our hunger for wealth and for career promotion, which in most cases requires both the father and mother to be away from home for many – too many – hours every day, we parents have reduced the priority given to our children. on the occasion of debating this report, it may be wise to urge parents to pause for a moment or two and consider deeply within themselves what is most important in their lives: a higher income or more time spent with their children? parents know the answer.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to assess the reports of parliament on the area of freedom, security and justice, we must examine objectively the developments in this area in recent years. the european union counter-terrorism coordinator shall not be subject to any institutional legislative control, either by the european parliament or by national parliaments. no progress has been made on any issue of democratic control. we have had a serious setback in the area of civil liberties and privacy in the name of fighting terrorism. i shall mention only two elements. the use of biometric data in the passports of all citizens and the removal of the confidentiality of telephone and online conversations. the european union must not be allowed to be the arbiter of the world's economic and political decisions, but must be the arbiter of the world's economic and political decisions. the secret services of the united states and other countries are acting unchecked outside their territory, in violation of a number of articles of international law. a classic example is the cia's secret flights. the european union, and those who voted in favour here in parliament, are only ratifying the incorporation of the prum convention into community law. the crown jewel of european union citizens' surveillance. the european union is also promoting measures that are part of its security agenda and that are also in line with its foreign policy strategy, including the build-up of military equipment and participation in military operations. instead of the european union, commissioner, taking the lead at international level in order to study the causes of the waves of migration and to put an end to the great contradictions between rich and poor countries, we prefer to set up rapid intervention forces with frontex to 'reverse' the migrants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the single area of freedom, security and justice with the content you give it increases the lack of freedom, insecurity and injustice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
mr president, commissioner, mr klich's report is complete and well-rounded. we support it and i congratulate the rapporteur on his report. ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking and writing for a long time about the strategy for creating an area of freedom, security and justice. but we do little. the agenda is there. thoughts and suggestions are there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no determination to move outside the european union. we are stuck in the backwaters of our national sovereignty, each member state, and we are preventing effective joint action. the refusal to use, for example, the 'passerelle method' unfortunately undermines the functionality and efficiency of the european union. the european union's dysfunction is also reflected very strongly in the field of justice and home affairs. pillars, consensus and fear of moving away from national standards prevent the promotion of a common strategy to create a genuine area of freedom, security and justice. these obstacles make it difficult to implement the strategy, not only within the european union but also abroad. the external dimension of the hague programme is as important as the internal dimension. only a modern constitutional framework will help to effectively advance the strategy for an area of freedom, security and justice. the historic commitment to a better functioning european union must be answered by the heads of state or government meeting in brussels tomorrow. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are discussing tonight is a necessary step towards developing judicial and police cooperation between the member states of the european union. the european union has taken a step forward in the strategy for the creation of an area of justice and security, and i congratulate commissioner frattini on putting forward proposals such as the one we are considering today, which are in line with the hague strategy. the recording of convictions, ladies and gentlemen, and their transmission for recording to the member state of the convicted person's nationality and, in general, the exchange of information on convictions undoubtedly contribute to the fight against crime both nationally and across borders. there are, of course, gaps in the proposal. there is no community method for recording administrative convictions, which in most member states are not recorded in criminal records. the question of recording convictions from criminal records is not regulated at community level. the diversity of national regulations is unfortunately still a necessity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. however, the linking of national systems for recording and using information on convictions, which is done in the framework proposal, addresses to some extent the lack of a single community policy on all aspects of the issue. the need to respect the right to protection of personal data, not only in theory but also in practice, cannot be overemphasized. that will be apparent, of course, in the course. we hope that this right will be respected in practice and on a continuing basis. i support the report by my dear friend mr díaz de mera and congratulate him on the continuing interest he is showing in the european parliament in promoting this strategy of creating an area of freedom, security and justice. i believe that his report will be supported by a large majority in parliament tomorrow.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs roure, for her excellent report on this important but, it seems, highly controversial subject. it is important since it is estimated that millions of people fall victim to racist crime each year. it is controversial since it involves striking a balance between effective action to combat racism and xenophobia on one hand and respect for freedom of expression on the other. in fact, the subject apparently seems to be so controversial that the text currently under discussion has been the product of several years of negotiations. this of course begs the question, was it strictly necessary that so much time was and still is spent before arriving at a suitable solution? let us think of the millions of people who have suffered as a result of this serious time lag. is the reason for this extreme delay purely technical politics, or even negligent indifference? or is there some underlying attempt not to proceed speedily as some influential political forces are not so favourable to such action and are themselves bordering on being racist and xenophobic? perhaps the commissioner can reassure that the latter is not the case at all and that my fears are utterly unfounded.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i shall definitely speak about cuba! this house has dealt with the situation in cuba on several occasions. unfortunately, all our calls for full respect of fundamental freedoms of cuban citizens have fallen on deaf ears. the utterly anachronistic castro regime is now so much out of date and out of touch with reality and modern democratic norms that it is highly unlikely, in my view, that any significant change for the better will occur while castro is still in power. however, he is now elderly, sick and physically incapable of running the country, so we must start thinking about what to do when he has finally gone from the power stage of cuba. in the mean time, we once again call for democratic reforms and, in particular, we call for the cuban authorities to allow the two cuban winners of the ep’s sakharov prize to travel to europe. let us hope that some remnants of common sense may have survived in the minds of those ruling cuba and that we shall soon welcome these sakharov prize winners to parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, ethiopia, a country with a population of 75 million, is one of africa’s poorest states and almost two-thirds of its citizens are illiterate. it has had a traumatic history, passing from colonialism to royal oligarchy to marxist dictatorship and, recently, to a type of apparent parliamentary democracy, but with serious democratic deficits. we do not expect ethiopian democratic norms to be of a european standard. that would be unrealistic on our part, bearing in mind the country’s huge problems, but we expect the ethiopian government to show respect for at least basic human rights. we are currently very concerned about the psychologically paranoid mentality of the regime in addis ababa, which is behind a large-scale crackdown on opposition leaders, journalists and human rights activists. we are particularly worried about the government-controlled corrupt judicial and police systems which operate in the country, and call on the ethiopian authorities to proceed immediately to drastic changes and corrective measures in order to remedy the currently abysmal situation and to show the outside world that they genuinely care about justice and democracy, instead of simply claiming to do so.
member of the commission. madam president, i want to assure you that the commission fully shares parliament’s concerns with the lack of progress with respect to democratisation in ethiopia and even the deterioration of the situation since the 2005 post-election crisis. the commission, in coordination with member states and the international community, actively undertook efforts to defuse tensions and urge the ethiopian government to take practical steps towards the reconciliation and the democratisation of the country, to restore confidence and to release the imprisoned opposition leaders and representatives of the media and civil society. in its relations with the ethiopian authorities, the commission is continuously stressing the importance of reforms, including the implementation of the recommendations of the eu election observation mission in 2005. as far as the political detainees are concerned, president barroso and commissioner michel have reiterated their concerns on several occasions to prime minister meles zenawi, requesting a short, fair and transparent trial, asking for the withdrawal of the more outrageous charges and pointing out that they did not consider the trial an appropriate response to the ethiopian political problems. the granting of an amnesty to the political detainees was also suggested to the prime minister of ethiopia. the presence of an eu lawyer observer at the prisoners’ trial is intended to remind the ethiopian authorities of the eu’s attention in this regard. notwithstanding the recent release of 26 of the 131 initial defendants, for whom some of the initial accusations had been dismissed, the commission is at present seriously concerned about the guilty verdict pronounced on 11 june against 38 political prisoners, which could lead even to the death penalty. the commission, the eu member states and the international community are following the situation very closely, also taking into account the ongoing mediation efforts between the ethiopian authorities and the prisoners. the commission supports the mediation, but expects this mediation to lead to the unconditional release of the political prisoners. the commission is aware that the political situation is due to the lack of democratic reforms and extensive human rights violations, like arrests and detentions without charge. i want to assure you that we will never abandon those ethiopians who are committed to democracy, many of whom have been imprisoned and forced to leave the country. notwithstanding some progress made in parliamentary rules, there is a lack of substantial progress in the prime minister’s commitments entered into with the opposition after the elections, notably on electoral reforms, independence of the national electoral board, media reforms, independence of the judiciary and of the security and military forces. the commission remains convinced that we should continue to engage with the ethiopian authorities in an intense political dialogue on such crucial issues at every possible opportunity. commissioner michel, who is personally committed, has given priority to keeping an open and structured dialogue with them within the framework of article 8 of the cotonou agreement on political dialogue, as the most appropriate way to encourage enhanced governance, reconciliation and democracy. the commission recognises that democratisation will take time and we must remain vigilant as well as ready to support the government’s efforts in that direction. as regards the death penalty, we made it explicitly clear to the prime minister of ethiopia that the european union is opposed to its use in all circumstances and considers its abolition a crucial step towards the advancement of human dignity.
author. – madam president, commissioner, burma is a regular theme in our sessions on human rights breaches. if we had a prize for the regime with the worst human rights record, burma would certainly be a very strong contender. incidentally, burma is also a world star with respect to another evil: drugs. according to the international narcotics central strategy report for 2006, burma is the world’s second largest producer of illicit opium, accounting for more than 90% of south-east asian heroin. i do not know how well the breaches of human rights are connected to drug production in burma, but i know they should both be dealt with firmly, quickly and effectively. unfortunately, it seems that the eu’s stance – as well as that of the international community – against the burmese regime has not been drastic enough to have any good effect. a good example is the recent granting of permission by the council to the burmese foreign minister to attend the asem meeting, only days after the military junta in burma had extended the deplorable house arrest of mrs aung san suu kyi. the council ought to give an explanation for this action. another example is the fact that an arms embargo on burma is largely ineffective, since countries like china and india are not taking part in it. surely pressure must be put on such countries to join in the arms embargo against burma? in conclusion, let me reiterate our call for the immediate release from house arrest of mrs aung san suu kyi. that remarkable lady has contributed enormously to peace and democracy, not only in burma but internationally, and she has been awarded both the nobel peace prize and our own sakharov prize. it is truly outrageous and shameful that she has spent more than 11 of the last 17 years in detention in her own country. international and eu calls for her release have had no effect. our patience has long run out. we recommend that more drastic action, such as expansion of sanctions and enlargement of the list of those targeted, must now take place.
mr president, last week the international community witnessed with much satisfaction and relief the release of the bbc’s gaza correspondent alan johnston. as is well known, he had been abducted by an extremist islamist group four months earlier and his rescue in practical terms on the ground was made possible mainly through the efforts of hamas. admittedly hamas is not the holiest of organisations, but its recent seizure of control in gaza has had a number of beneficial effects apart from alan’s release. it has brought stability, peace and a vast decrease in the corruption previously exhibited in gaza. hamas representatives were democratically elected in the last elections and enjoy much popular support amongst the palestinian people. all these factors must surely make the west think again about hamas, its role in the middle east problem, and the possibility perhaps of taking hamas off the terrorist register.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to congratulate mrs doyle on her excellent report on food enzymes and to thank her for the very good cooperation she afforded to all the shadow rapporteurs. the use of enzymes in food processing is well known through the ages. however, in recent years such use has multiplied in number, quantity and complexity. it is therefore imperative to have new eu legislation on this aspect of food production. some of the areas on which the rapporteur has focused her attention include providing clear definitions of food enzymes and food enzyme preparations, the proper labelling of products and, perhaps most controversially, food enzymes derived from genetically modified micro-organisms. in general, i fully support the line followed by the rapporteur in this report. however, concerning gmo-derived enzymes, i have decided to follow a more strictly ‘green’ approach than mrs doyle, although i must admit that the rapporteur has made significant compromise changes which greatly improve the approach to the matter of gmos. nevertheless, i would like to tackle the issue, appearing perhaps a bit over- rather than under-cautious, as the subject matter has a number of as yet unresolved scientific question marks and unknown quantities. in addition, i feel that, as far as our citizens’ health is concerned, it is always better to be safe than sorry. besides, the european public’s psyche and perceived understanding of anything to do with gmos is presently somewhat suspicious, to say the least. it is only right and fair that the public should be given full information with crystal clarity and honest precision on foodstuffs that contain certain substances derived from gmos. only in this way will our citizens feel absolutely safe that they can enjoy food produced with the use of enzymes, knowing exactly how the enzymes were produced. the vast majority of consumers might not make full use of such a practice, but it will be available for those few who wish to be fully informed as a matter of right.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all the honourable members for their interest in the commission's proposal for a second community health programme. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr trakatelli, and the shadow rapporteurs in particular for their efforts, which will allow us - i am sure of it - to reach an agreement at second reading. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the compromise amendments strengthen the text in many areas of particular importance to parliament, such as the follow-up to the community initiatives on cancer and more precise wording in relation to actions on the environment and health. as regards the budget, we have had the opportunity to discuss it in the past, but unfortunately the margin of manoeuvre was very limited and the commission is strictly bound by the agreed financial framework. however, according to the text of the tripartite declaration, the specific needs of the programme will be taken into account during the annual budgetary procedure. in addition, today's text will provide the legal basis which will ensure that resources are allocated more effectively to achieving the objectives of the programme. i think it is clear that parliament, the council and the commission have made considerable efforts to reach an acceptable compromise. i sincerely hope that the vote that follows will reflect this positive and constructive attitude, so that it can enable us to start financing projects in important new areas of public health from 1 january 2008. i would now like to turn, and on the basis of mr ouzký's question, to a more specific area of public health, one of the most serious problems, that of cardiovascular disease, which is certainly one of the main causes of premature death and disability for citizens of the european union. the causes and risk factors are well known, including smoking, poor dietary habits and obesity, lack of physical exercise and harmful alcohol consumption. i am aware of the strong interest of parliament in this area and the resolution on cardiovascular diseases which the committee on the environment is putting before the house. as you know, the commission attaches particular importance to prevention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the measures to include the following: we are doing the same with regard to smoking, and you are well aware of the 'help' campaign which has been hosted in parliament, the various legislation that exists and the green paper we have adopted on the ban on smoking in public places, and i am really looking forward to the opinion and the view of the european parliament. in the nutrition sector, we recently published, just in may, a white paper on nutrition and obesity, and as you know, we have already moved forward with the implementation and implementation of the alcohol strategy, starting with the alcohol and health forum in collaboration with ngos and private sector companies to address this new problem. through public health programmes, the commission supports activities and networks related to cardiovascular disease, including an extensive catalogue of data on cardiovascular disease in the member states and the development of indicators for the monitoring of cardiovascular disease. the creation of reference centres, the exchange of best practices, the tackling of the inequalities that unfortunately exist in the european union, not only from one country to another but also within the member states themselves, are the objectives that we will be tackling with the new programme. but i must stress for the sake of accuracy that we are merely offering the possibilities. these should be used by the member states which also have responsibility for the provision of health services. as regards research (because the question is also about research), the european union has allocated more than eur 100 million to research on cardiovascular diseases through the 6th research framework programme, and these diseases are also one of the priorities of health research under the 7th research framework programme launched this year; the commission has also proposed that the seventh framework programme should be extended to include the following research areas: i will not go into detail on the european charter on cardiovascular health because there was an event and a debate here in parliament and we all remember the presentation event in brussels last month. but this coherent document is important because it brings together all those who can contribute to tackling this problem. and of course it's covered by the public health program. more action to tackle the determinants of cardiovascular disease and health inequalities will be included in the new european union health strategy, which i hope and am sure will be adopted later this year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is responding to the priorities that the countries themselves have defined through dialogue, but of course the health sector is one of the priorities. the same applies to the structural funds which exist in the european union for the member states; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we are allowing - i explain, i do not fail to raise the issue with my fellow health ministers every time we meet - but at the end of the day the decision will be taken collectively by the governments of the member states. i advise and encourage member states to make use of the structural funds in the health sector, but i would say that there is still a lot of room for improvement. but it is also our priority to strengthen the national health systems which enable us to manage public health priorities, covering not only communicable diseases, which are of course the first and obvious threat, but also non-communicable diseases, and in this i hope to have the support and cooperation of parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to express my congratulations to the rapporteur for his excellent report. professor trakatellis has spent many years dealing with health issues, both as a clinician and as a politician; therefore, he knows the subject matter of this report very well and it is thus not surprising that he has tackled the issue with efficiency and wisdom. most of us share the rapporteur’s views on the main issues brought up in this report. one of the most important of these is the problem of health inequalities. such inequalities occur not just from one member state to another but also within member states. they can be very substantial indeed and, in many cases, such differences exist right across the whole range of healthcare, from prevention and diagnosis to treatment. it is well known, not just amongst medical professionals but also amongst ordinary citizens, that such discepancies more often than not make the difference between life or death. the right to life should be accompanied by the right to health – equal health, not one health for the rich and another for the poor. in a fair and humanistic society such as the one we aspire to achieve in the eu member states, all citizens should be equal in terms of healthcare. i agree entirely with the rapporteur that this issue should become a very major aim of the health programme and i am sure that the commissioner also agrees with this. a second area referred to by the rapporteur on which i would like to offer some brief comments is that of cancer. cancer is the second commonest cause of death in europe and the world in general, yet it is absolutely unthinkable why in this day and age no proper community system for cooperation between centres of reference is fully functioning unhindered. and it is shameful that shortcomings exist in the establishment of a europe-wide register for those cancers which are covered by the council recommendation on cancer screening. the rapporteur addresses both of these issues and many others adequately and proposes appropriate amendments which we fully support.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i shall, however, focus on the economic problem because the great disagreement, as we all know, between parliament and the council was from the outset the budget to support this policy. the agreement of member states in december 2005 on the new financial framework for 2007-13 left funding for many policy areas well below the levels originally proposed by the commission. one of the policy areas that suffered the greatest cuts was public health, and the biggest casualty was the health program. the negotiations between the commission and the council had a very negative impact on the financial support for the action programme. the budget was reduced to just €365.6 million, a very small amount for such an ambitious programme. however, the rapporteur, with the support of the shadow rapporteurs, has explored all possibilities for improving the situation. however, given the council's vertical stance, it accepted that the room for manoeuvre on the budget was limited and accepted the compromise of the council and the commission. although we are not in agreement with the limited budget of the programme, we welcome the efforts of the rapporteur in keeping intact a large number of parliament's proposals and amendments and in avoiding the conciliation procedure. we are very relieved to note that the rapporteur's compromise includes a reference to the need to reduce health inequalities as well as a reference to alternative medicine. the commission will also be supporting the development of a european strategy for health and safety at work, which will include the establishment of a european health and safety strategy, the establishment of a european health and safety strategy and the establishment of a european strategy for health and safety at work. it is worth noting that a large proportion of the budget goes to non-governmental bodies, which are non-profit making and independent of industry, commerce and business and specialise in health promotion and the aims of the programme. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented in a timely manner, and that the budgetary resources available are used to achieve the objectives set out in the programme. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the population is not affected by the disease, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we need to invest in this area. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. you're listing cancer as the second leading cause of death. i'm telling you with mathematical precision, in a few years, cancer will be the number one cause of death because of the progress we're seeing in cardiovascular disease. we shall be with you, commissioner, and we shall support you in implementing the programme.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs sornoza martínez, for her work on this proposal. we're discussing a very important policy tonight. it is an important element in our strategy to banish mercury from our environment forever - a strategy that has long been supported by the european parliament. mercury and its compounds are highly toxic to human health and the environment. the directive will therefore be a major step forward, restricting the placing on the market of certain new mercury-containing measuring instruments and preventing some 30 tonnes of mercury per year from entering the environment through waste streams. the proposed directive aims to reduce the use of this hazardous substance in measuring instruments as far as possible and to allow only those exceptions where the risks are negligible or where no substitutes are available. for example, the placing on the market of mercury-containing temperature thermometers is completely prohibited and the sale of all other measuring instruments containing mercury to the general public is also prevented. i think it is right that there should be an exception for blood pressure monitors in the health sector and for antique measuring instruments. the proposals were based on a risk assessment and a detailed impact assessment developed for the mercury strategy. this directive not only protects human health and the environment but will also help to preserve the internal market by introducing harmonised rules for the placing on the market of measuring instruments containing mercury throughout the community. the rapporteur recommends supporting the council's common position without further amendment. the commission fully shares this view, since the common position incorporates some of parliament's amendments at first reading and represents a balanced compromise between the objective of eliminating as far as possible the use of mercury to protect human health and the environment and the objective of ensuring the safety of patients in health care. i must confirm what the rapporteur has already said: mercury-containing blood pressure monitors, called sphygmomanometers, are still considered by most experts to be essential in the treatment of certain life-threatening diseases. we shall have to deal with this question. if safe alternatives are available for these devices, then mercury should be banned here too. the commission therefore intends to review the proposed derogation in two years' time. another exception provides for the continued marketing of antique measuring instruments, i.e. those which are at least 50 years old. the commission agrees with this, since antique instruments are mainly collectors' items, which are treated very carefully because of their value and are only available on the market in very limited quantities. however, the commission considers that there is no justification for an unlimited derogation for the continued supply of new mercury barometers to final consumers. since there are both decorative and reliable alternatives to mercury barometers, the use of this hazardous substance in the manufacture of barometers is absolutely unnecessary. an indefinite exemption for such equipment would be in stark contrast to the position on highly dangerous substances taken by this european parliament when it adopted the new reach chemicals act. a transitional period of two years, as now provided for in the directive, is fully sufficient to give the few remaining manufacturers of mercury barometers the opportunity to switch their business to alternatives. moreover, many, if not all, of these manufacturers already have alternative offers. the commission will therefore under no circumstances accept the amendments tabled, in so far as they concern permanent exemptions for barometers. i urge you to help ensure that, with the support of the common position, the directive can now be adopted at second reading.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to congratulate mrs sornosa martínez on her excellent report. this legislative report follows the mercury strategy report adopted by this house last year. it aims at restricting the placing on the market of new measuring devices containing mercury. mrs sornosa martínez rightly agrees in the main with the proposal before us and reserves only some derogations in cases where there are no appropriate substitutes yet available. my group strongly supports this proposal and considers the rapporteur's amendments useful and appropriate. overall, the proposal meets with widespread agreement across parliament, apart from the single, well-known issue of the barometer controversy. the difference, as you know, is that the council has agreed to the compromise proposal to grant a two-year derogation after the entry into force of the directive to a small number of producers of traditional-looking, present-day manufactured barometers. this, we feel, is a reasonable solution and gives those manufacturers time to implement mercury-free substitutes into their products. this view is not shared by some colleagues who hold the opinion expressed in amendments 1 and 2 that there should be a permanent derogation for traditional-looking barometers. the matter is not of huge importance in substance, as the amount of mercury used in these instruments is tiny and safety measures are adequately implemented by the manufacturers. at the same time, as a question of principle, no long-term derogation is necessary as the manufacturers have ample time to adapt in the case of safe alternative chemicals without the need to introduce a risky precedent in safety directives. the issue has, unfortunately, been blown out of all proportion by a section of the national press that want to portray the matter as one of heartless and bureaucratic big-brother-style eu interfering with poor, honest-to-goodness traditional instrument manufacturers and trying to destroy them. this, as you will appreciate, is not true. the position of my group is to follow scientific logic and not to accept permanent derogations for barometers but, realising the strength of feeling amongst some meps, we will not be unduly strict with those in our group who choose not to follow the group line, although there is always the risk of the barometer amendment going through and jeopardising the whole proposal. let us hope that this will not happen.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, let me make it clear that the correct application of the posting of workers directive is not a back door to weaken and undermine the protection of workers in the european labour market. on the contrary, the correct application is an effective protection of workers, that is the fundamental thing. it is by no means true that the commission intends to limit the scope of controls and i want to make it clear that any measures which a member state considers necessary and proportionate to the purpose are of course correct and applicable. i must also note that the decision on this directive, like the communication, was not taken at the green table and was discussed on numerous occasions with the social partners and the field. i think in the practice of law, each of us knows that fine line between where the law becomes a mere bureaucracy, not serving a purpose, and instead serving a purpose that is different and wrong. the controls are therefore to be thorough and effective, but within the method used, the directive and the law in general do not allow everything. not everything is acceptable, only those things that are within the law, that are effective and at the same time proportionate. as regards the amendment of this directive which has been suggested, i can state that parliament itself has addressed this issue at least twice or three times, as have the social partners, and there has never been a predominant opinion that the directive should be substantially revised. on the contrary, the view has always been that cooperation and implementation need to be improved. i would also like to point out that implementation is a matter for the member states and that the commission has the task of ensuring that this implementation is within the framework of european law, with the obligation to use the legal means at its disposal. in this respect, the commission naturally checks the situation on the labour markets in the individual member states and acts in a balanced manner, as is required by law. there is no doubt that improving administrative cooperation is of paramount importance, as is improving cooperation between the individual control authorities in the member states, and the commission will continue and intensify its efforts in this direction. if there is any reason for the extension of the legislation in the future, it will certainly be open and lively. at this stage, neither the preliminary political debate in parliament nor the debate with the social partners suggests that it would be right to open up new legislative activity in this area. ladies and gentlemen, i must stress again that the purpose of this directive is to protect workers effectively. all control steps leading to this effective protection are correct. states which do not protect workers by effective controls are not in conformity with this directive. despite all this, it is clear that any control in any area must be exercised proportionately in the legal sense, and often we dispute what is proportionate at the moment. this dispute between the european institutions is admissible before the luxembourg court.
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members, when we began this process the words ‘towards a maritime policy for the european union’ made up a phrase full of potential and promise. today, two years after our work started and one year since the launch of the green paper, we are no longer only talking of what is possible. we are talking of what can become a reality. on 30 june we ended the consultation process. thousands of stakeholders throughout europe have taken an active part in the process expressing overwhelming support for this project. parliament has been very active in the run-up to this debate. let me express my thanks and appreciation at the outset to the rapporteur, willi piecyk, for having coordinated the keen interest of the various committees and having produced this impressive report. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs of the various active committees for their invaluable input as well as the other meps who were particularly supportive of the maritime policy project. we are especially happy with the holistic cross-sectoral nature of the opinion of parliament. the common understanding reflected in the report is a good basis for the future functioning of a holistic and integrated maritime policy for europe. the contents of the report are indeed impressively vast and we are grateful for such a substantial number of suggestions. we welcome the fact that parliament points out that in the area of maritime affairs, speedy progress must be made on the legislative proposals which are now before the council and which relate both to the safety of maritime transport and to the protection and preservation of the marine environment. the goals of our future maritime policy will indeed need to see a proper implementation of this legislation by member states. in the 2008 preliminary draft budget the commission has also asked for credits to undertake preparatory actions which aim to start implementing of some actions foreseen under the new maritime policy and we hope that parliament will support these requests. we are prepared in particular to work in areas such as the integration of surveillance systems for activities on the sea, the setting-up of a network on data relating to the seas and oceans and on the exchange of best practices in maritime industries and services through the promotion of maritime clusters in 2008. we are convinced that such projects will yield substantial benefits in the long run. turning to some specific elements raised in the report, let me make some general comments. the commission welcomes the call by parliament to ensure that the environmental dimension is clearly reflected in the proposals we will be making in october and is committed to paying particular attention to climate change. in this regard the commission is analysing the contributions of all stakeholders which deal with emissions trading and shipping, renewable forms of energy such as wind and solar power for ships, land-based power supply for ships in ports, offshore wind energy, ship dismantling and others. all these will have a positive contribution to make with respect to climate change and broader environmental considerations. as has been said on many occasions, the marine environmental protection strategy remains at the core of the maritime policy and constitutes its environmental pillar. they will mutually reinforce one another. the commission also welcomes the recognition underlined in the report of the importance of maritime transport to the european economy. efforts at simplification and better regulation remain a top priority for the commission. maritime transport presents one of the least environmentally damaging modes of transport. bearing this in mind, efforts should be stepped up to improve the track record even further. maritime transport is also important beyond reasons of sustainability as it contributes to further the integration of our common internal market and is crucial for europe’s external trade in this era of globalisation. the economic importance of the maritime sectors for the european union and the success of a number of national and regional clusters are well known. the concertation on eu maritime policy has demonstrated a keen interest of all those involved to strengthen and encourage the development of maritime clusters across the european union. the commission has committed itself to promoting best practice and interlinkages for maritime clusters in both national and regional contexts through mapping europe’s maritime clusters and analysing their potential cooperation. with respect to the points raised in the report on research and innovation, the commission believes that excellence in maritime research and technology is essential to develop the vast potential of sea resources in a sustainable manner. it will constitute a fundamental basis to achieve integration and to enhance synergies in the different maritime sectors. this is why marine research and technology was recognised as a cross-cutting priority in the seventh research framework programme that will be addressed with particular attention. we recognise the importance of tourism as a driver for sustainable growth in coastal and maritime areas. at the same time, coastal and maritime tourism can be used as a tool to foster the preservation of cultural, historical and environmental features of our maritime space. a communication is planned for 2007 and it will set out an agenda for a sustainable and competitive european tourism. it will be based on the report that collected the reactions of all european tourist stakeholders and will point to possible new initiatives at eu level, including on coastal and maritime tourism, which could usefully complement member states’ initiatives. the commission welcomes the positive attitude of the report towards the need to ensure sustainability in the field of fisheries. we have taken a number of initiatives in order to increase the number of marine protected areas and to develop policies in favour of longer-term approaches to fisheries management. in addition, the commission has already made proposals for the progressive elimination of discards. within the context of the october package, the commission will also adopt proposals aimed at combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fisheries and measures on destructive fishing practices. turning now to social aspects, let me say that we fully share the concerns of parliament regarding the scarcity of experts and well-trained professionals facing the maritime industry and will look with great interest at the suggestions made in the report for specialised training courses aimed at providing a broad understanding of the ecosystem-based approach to sea and oceans management. we also share parliament’s opinion that the exclusion of seafarers from social directives should be reviewed. with regard to social rules for seafarers, let me underline the importance of the ongoing work between the social partners on integrating the consolidated ilo convention on working conditions for seafarers into community law. one final point concerning governance: it is clear from our consultations with member states and stakeholders that closer coordination between all sectoral policies and all levels of governance is required if we are to make a success of maritime policy. i therefore find the position of parliament on this issue both timely and relevant. in addition, we recognise that the exchange and stimulation of best practice in integrated maritime policy making needs to be backed by platforms that support the exchange of experience and information on best practice. to this end, we intend to organise annual conferences which will bring together relevant actors from regions, member states and at eu level, including stakeholders in all relevant areas. this exercise will also contribute to raising the visibility of the maritime sectors in general. honourable members, in order to build on the momentum gained during the consultation process, we aim to put forward an ambitious maritime policy package on 10 october and present it for further consultation with parliament and the council. the package will translate the vision of a new eu maritime policy into reality. it will include a communication on the consultation process that will show how broad and extensive it has been and that will highlight the close and constructive engagement we have had with our interlocutors, and a second communication that will propose a european maritime policy and action plan. the policy will focus on europe’s maritime reality, on the importance of an integrated approach to maritime affairs and on our vision for the policy and its principles. it will aim to promote and develop the sustainable use of the oceans and seas, delivering a high quality of life across the regions, providing transparency and raising the visibility of maritime europe, strengthening europe’s maritime international leadership role and, last but not least, reaching for europe’s full knowledge and innovation potential in maritime affairs. the action plan will indicate our intention as regards how to implement a maritime policy through the identification of the actions and the subjects for a proposal. in conclusion, may i once again congratulate parliament and the rapporteurs concerned for their excellent work. we look forward to continuing our close dialogue with you in the months ahead in the interest of laying the foundations for a more integrated european maritime policy for europe.
the committee on regional development has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of south africa on trade in textile products. madam president, i have included my suggestions on shipping policy in my opinion, which has already been examined by the committees responsible. but no proposal - and i emphasize this in the presence of the commissioner - can succeed without protecting the environment, which man is maniacally destroying with tragic proofs the fires of recent years and days in the mediterranean countries. all the plans are based on the assumption that we will succeed in saving the environment and reversing the greenhouse effect within this policy of action, starting with the creation of a european firefighting force, which will operate with joint contributions of means and funds, mainly from the member states concerned, and will be ready in the summer months. if there is a will, everything can be done and dangers avoided. otherwise our policies will be a blank slate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's coastal regions are protected from the effects of the oil crisis. - what ? (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, unfortunately we do not have time to analyse the situation in palestine. we are in the european parliament and we are called upon to give immediate answers to a highly urgent and complex question. i shall therefore focus on four important points: firstly, the european union bears responsibility for the present situation, since it did not support the government of national unity. secondly, the solutions and actions we have seen recently from the quartet and israel, while superficially seeming to support president abbas, are putting more obstacles in the way of a viable solution to the de facto partition of palestine. thirdly, i call on all parties to work hard for unity, because it is the only way out of the crisis. fourthly and lastly, there is the question of the humanitarian situation, which is tragic both in the gaza strip and in the west bank. the european union is also committed to the development of the palestinian people, and the palestinian people are not only the victims of the israeli occupation, but also the victims of the israeli occupation. in conclusion, i would like to make a request to the council and the commission: the european union must not repeat the mistakes of the past, in which the european union negotiated selectively with half the government and flagrantly ignored the other half, even if the entire government was the product of free and democratic elections.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, commissioner, the fire of 29 june 2007, which you mentioned and which mr hadjidakis also mentioned, in the area of the villages of pelendriou saitas in the troodos mountain range, is one of the largest fires to have occurred in cyprus in the last 30 years. the fire was spread by extremely adverse conditions, mainly heat, strong winds and the harshness of the area. despite the immediate mobilization of the competent services and the use of all available means, ground and airborne, the damage caused is enormous. the total area burned is about 12 square kilometers and the damage can be estimated in economic terms at 15,350,000 pounds. environmental damage includes destruction of habitats, fauna and flora in the soil, watershed, landscape and microclimate of the area and cannot be estimated in economic terms but is perhaps more significant than other damage. the area is a relatively remote and mountainous one, and the economy of the inhabitants was largely based on agritourism, which will be irreparably damaged for a long time, as the natural beauties that attracted visitors, both local and foreign, have been destroyed. i therefore ask the commission to listen to any request by the republic of cyprus for immediate and urgent funding from the solidarity fund and for the immediate establishment of a european disaster response force.
author. – mr president, commissioner, iraq is today in a catastrophic abyss and the iraqi people find themselves in a state of utter despair and shock. the confirmed statistics provided by international agencies, such as the united nations assistance mission in iraq and other un organisations, are truly grim and heartbreaking. every day on average one hundred people are killed and two hundred wounded; 50% of the population is living on less than one dollar a day and unemployment affects more than 80% of the population. only a minority have access to adequate water supplies and effective sanitation. electricity supply is severely restricted and is subject to frequent interruptions without warning. four out of five doctors have left their hospitals and three out of four children are not at school. almost three million people are internally displaced, i.e. they are refugees in their own country, and this number increases by about 2000 every day. a further two million iraqis are refugees in neighbouring states, namely syria, jordan, the gulf region, egypt and iran. these people have no formal refugee protection status. the eu and the international community in general have a moral duty to show compassion and understanding for the miserable circumstances the iraqi refugees find themselves in. additionally, and more importantly, they must take much more effective measures to ensure that these poor people are given the help and support they so desperately need in order to survive indignity and the calamity that has fallen upon them. this joint motion for a resolution lists a number of measures that are of importance in helping the iraqi refugees have a more human existence. so far, i have spoken as a representative of my group, now permit me to say a few words on a personal basis. iraq is a relatively new country: it only became independent from britain in 1932. it then followed a history of turmoil and, eventually, saddam hussein came to power. he was a tyrant and a criminal but he was assisted in gaining power by the west, including, unfortunately, some european states. sadly, though, even the worst days of saddam hussein’s totalitarian rule seem nothing in comparison to the death, destruction and suffering that has fallen on the iraqi people following the bush-blair invasion and continued occupation of the country. these two ‘peacekeepers’ ordered an attack on iraq, promising to bring happiness and prosperity to the iraqi people. instead, they succeeded in bringing a calamity of gigantic proportions. yet some eu circles continue to applaud this invasion and, recently, they have even agreed to rewarding mr blair for his ‘peace’ services to the arab world by appointing him special representative of the quartet to the middle east. may god bring some sanity to such circles and may god save us from the bushes and blairs of this world !
author. – mr president, moldova, and in particular the transnistrian region, have been the subject of previous resolutions of this house. since the 1992 conflict in moldova, which led to the establishment of the separatist and illegitimate regime in the transnistrian region, there have been numerous and serious violations of the human rights of the affected citizens of moldova. these violations, which continue to happen today, range from severe limitations of the freedom of speech to arbitrary arrest and detention and use of torture on political opponents and civil rights activists. calls by the international community in defence of the human rights of the moldovian citizens living in transnistria have, to a large extent, been ignored. even the judgments of the european court of human rights against moldova and its allied russian federation in respect of violations that have taken place in transnistria, have been completely ignored by the separatist transnistrian regime. we strongly condemn the repression, harassment and persecution of citizens and ngos currently taking place in transnistria and which is the work of the totalitarian transnistrian regime. we call for a rapid settlement of the frozen conflict in that region pointing out adamantly that the territorial integrity of moldova must never be put in doubt, and that the regime in tiraspol is illegal and unrecognised, and so it will remain in our eyes and in our decisions. since moldova is located in the eu’s immediate neighbourhood, and especially since this country has apparent eu membership aspirations, the eu must continue to be a key player in assisting the moldovan people to achieve eventually the peace and prosperity they so much deserve in a unified and a conflict-free democratic nation.
author. – mr president, vietnam, a word synonymous with catastrophe, is a country that, as we all know, has had an extremely traumatic past, with long and treacherous fighting against colonialism, with a devastating civil conflict and with a calamitous war against the american forces having resulted in unprecedented suffering for the vietnamese people. then came the totalitarian communist regime which, it has to be said, has made at least some proper efforts towards healing the wounds of the past and getting the country on its feet again. consequently, the socialist republic of vietnam was rewarded by the international community in various ways, including being allowed it to join the world trade organisation, but, unfortunately, there is still a long way to go to achieving an acceptable level of democracy for the vietnamese people. we are particularly concerned about new waves of persecution of dissidents and the suppression of the fundamental right of free speech. we are also very concerned about the lapses in reforms relating to freedom of religion and the various set-backs in achieving judicial reform, which should be fair and democratic and which should lead to the abolition of all forms of imprisonment without proper judicial safeguards. hoping that the human rights dialogue between the eu and vietnam will, albeit the recent setbacks, lead to tangible improvements for the vietnamese people, we call upon the authorities in vietnam to take serious note of our concerns relating to the issue of violation of human rights in their country. at the same time, we call upon the commission and council to reassess the policy of cooperation with vietnam, bearing in mind that this cooperation should be subject to respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights and reforms. let this motion for a resolution not be seen as a threat, but more as a caution to the vietnamese government.
mr president, on a point of order, over the last three years of attending these afternoon debates on breaches of human rights, the commission has always been represented, most usually with a commissioner, although it is a difficult time. we are very grateful for that. at the same time, i would like it to be noted that, on the council side, i have never seen a representative. i wonder whether it is because the council is not invited, or is it because it does not think it is important to be here? perhaps you could find out and let us know. (applause)
mr president, amnesty international is an organisation with impeccable credentials, which, through its many years of hard work, has helped greatly in the fight against human rights abuses worldwide and has earned the respect of all those who care about justice, freedom and democracy. but amnesty international has also, not unexpectedly, created a lot of enemies. one such enemy exists in turkey. many of amnesty international’s reports concern turkey and this has upset the army-controlled ‘deep state’ establishment in that country. that establishment recently reacted aggressively once again. as you are probably well aware, it has issued, through the local authorities in constantinople, a decision on so-called ‘illegal fundraising’ and subsequently frozen amnesty international’s bank accounts in turkey. this is clearly an attempt to cripple amnesty international in that country. i urge you to make strong representations to the government of turkey to make it clear that parliament will not accept the aforementioned attack on amnesty international, and that such attacks hinder significantly turkey’s progress towards eu accession.
mr president, the recent forest fires in greece brought devastation to the communities affected. dozens of human lives were lost, hundreds of individuals were injured, thousands of animals were killed, whole villages were burned to the ground and thousands of acres of forests were annihilated. our condolences and sympathy go to the people of greece. for almost 10 days we watched in horror as the fires destroyed life, property and the environment in greece, and our minds returned to similar catastrophes in portugal, italy, spain and elsewhere in europe in previous years. the eu has a duty to ensure that proper compensation measures are implemented swiftly. it also has a duty to look critically at the reasons why these fires had such a catastrophic effect, to analyse what went wrong in terms of prevention and fire-fighting effectiveness and to draw conclusions that might guide us in the future. reports from greece point towards possible gross failings by successive central governments and local authorities to establish proper measures to prevent and fight forest fires. it seems that forests were left without adequate anti-fire zones, without functioning emergency water points and reservoirs, without proper plans for fire-fighting or for the orderly evacuation of villages, without up-to-date fire-fighting equipment and without, in some cases, modern training for fire-fighters. what happened to eu central monitoring as regards the implementation of forest fire prevention policy? was the commission not aware of the apparent poor state of affairs in greece, and what measures, if any, were taken to correct the situation? those questions need to be answered urgently and clearly. however, there is another aspect that should worry us, which is the fact that, according to the greek government, there is strong evidence that many fires were caused by organised arsonists. the fires in greece have demonstrated the ever-increasing threat of yet another form of terrorism: arson terrorism. it is a form of terrorism that is far more difficult to deal with, because arson terrorists do not have to go through sophisticated security checks, but simply have to go for a drive in the countryside. they do not need to use complicated explosive devices: they just need a matchbox. therefore, it is high time that we start acting decisively and collectively on ways to counter this new, very catastrophic, form of terrorism in europe. in conclusion, it is very important to mention once again our gratitude to all those who fought and risked their lives in the mountains of evia and the peloponnese in fighting the catastrophic fires while, at the same time, politicians in athens were fighting each other on tv shows.
mr president, this has been very difficult for the citizens of southern europe who have been affected by the devastating fires. i am sure that you have all seen the drama that has unfolded in greece, where many lives have been lost and vast areas of forest have been burned. but beyond the economic side of this disaster, there is the human and environmental side. so it is good to ask ourselves what will happen to all these people who have lost their homes, their jobs and their land. the solidarity fund offers a financial balm, but what about social reintegration? we must also ask ourselves what will happen from an environmental point of view. the first rains will not be long in coming and we risk seeing new disasters in the middle of winter. these are the questions we are asking the commission, and we must insist, as we did with a similar resolution last year, on the establishment of a european civil protection authority.
mr president, expert scientists have predicted that in a few decades the mediterranean will be turned into a desert. the ecological disaster that has struck greece with the forest fires and the fires in other mediterranean countries convinces me that this prediction is a visible reality if global warming and extreme weather continue. such a threat to the european union cannot but be considered equivalent to other threats such as terrorism, illegal immigration, organised crime, etc. so we must face it together in the european union. i welcome mr špidla's statement that the commission's communication is being prepared and i hope that the commission will bring together the most competent and expert in forest protection and forest fire fighting to improve the practice of forest fire fighting. but i think the european union should also encourage research so that flying firefighting vehicles can operate at night. it is inconceivable that warplanes can operate at night and that aircraft cannot fly in the face of this grave and immediate threat to the whole of europe. thirdly, there is the natura 2000 programme, which includes our forests. we must take a rational view of this programme which prohibits the creation of fire zones and fire-fighting access roads. here it is really true that to save the tree we lose the forests. and that position needs to be reconsidered. finally, i believe that in these studies which will be carried out at pan-european level, the issue of reforestation and environmental restoration after such ecological disasters should be given even more serious consideration.
mr president, alcohol-related mortality and morbidity affect hundreds of thousands of eu citizens every year and alcohol competes strongly with tobacco as a main cause of preventable serious harm to humans. road traffic accidents, domestic violence, sexual abuse of children, hepatic cancer, liver cirrhosis and foetal damage are just some of the known detriments of alcohol. yet alcohol is widely available at affordable prices everywhere in europe. it is regarded as a necessary component in most social events, including many such events in the european parliament. its production is supported and subsidised by the eu. its consumption is extensively and directly advertised on tv, radio and the press, and most alcoholic beverages carry no proper health hazard warning. why is this so? why are national governments, national parliaments and the eu so tolerant of alcohol? is it because of the very strong alcohol industry-related lobby? is it because there is, historically, a general degree of naivety as regards this substance? is it because of an as yet not well understood psychological or cultural factor? the sad fact is that the eu strategy in reducing alcohol-related harm has fallen victim to the same factors. i dare say, respectfully, that this report, despite the noble intentions of the rapporteur, instead of tackling the problem drastically and effectively, merely scratches the surface and deals mildly mainly with heavy drinking and extreme drinking patterns, or drinking in particular circumstances, e.g. by children or pregnant women. i am not advocating alcohol prohibition, but i believe that our chance as meps to deal with alcohol as a potentially killer drug of addiction, the use of which needs to be seriously, not mildly, restricted, has been missed. unfortunately, the alcohol lobby has succeeded once again. this much watered-down alcohol strategy for europe proved that the alcohol industry won and the eu citizens lost. just as a piece of information, alcohol acts by interfering with the function of neurones in the central nervous system and by killing nerve cells which can never be replaced again in a person’s life. so, whether we drink little or much, the damage is there. it is just the degree of damage that differs.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in the us, the intelligence agencies will be able to unimpeded monitor all phone calls, online activity and electronic communication of everyone on all us-based internet networks. this development is another attempt at universal control and policing of citizens around the world, which the european union has unfortunately acquiesced in by adopting measures which are also detrimental to its development. a large part of its budget is allocated to the institutionalisation and strengthening of police bodies, military operations, the establishment of immigration detention facilities, etc. in particular, i would like to refer to the issue of the compilation of lists of terrorists who are not subject to any democratic and institutional legislative control and to any judicial review and review of appeal procedures. even after the judgments of the european court of justice of 12 december 2006, where the court ruled on the lack of controls and non-compliance with the necessary measures to protect human rights, the european union made only structural changes. fundamental problems remain. the member states are not obliged to provide evidence of the persons they propose to put on the list, while - and this is even more dangerous - the commission itself remains competent to add and remove persons and organisations from the list.
mr president, we could invoke the irony of fate that this debate is taking place after the tragic events that took place this summer in southern europe and which will unfortunately contribute the most to the changing landscape and to future environmental problems. desertification is not a modern problem. it's been around for decades. the gradual degradation of formerly productive land is a complex process. it involves multiple causes and proceeds at varying rates according to different climates. thus, for example, desertification may intensify an existing general climatic trend toward greater drought or it may initiate a change in local climate in the first place. it is important to emphasize that the presence of a nearby desert has no direct relation to desertification. unfortunately, an area that is subject to the latter only comes to public attention after the process is well under way. often, little data is available to show the previous state of the ecosystem or the rate of degradation. we must therefore be particularly careful about what happens to the burnt areas in southern europe, since we risk experiencing climate change and, by extension, possible desertification of the affected areas in the near future. true, scientists are still considering whether desertification, as a process of global change, is permanent or how and when it can be stopped, reversed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. more efficient use of existing water resources and control of salinity are effective tools for dryland. new ways are also being sought to use surface water resources such as rainwater. but in addition to the scientific framework for dealing with desertification, it is also appropriate to emphasize the political aspect. so if we're going to stop and reverse the degradation of dry and semi-arid lands, we need to understand how and why the rates of climate change, population growth and food production are impacting these environments. the most effective intervention can only come from the wise use of the best information. the european union is a political entity, a political entity, and a political entity, and it is not a political entity. i would like to emphasize two points which i consider very important: firstly, it is time for the european union to put its hand in its pocket if it wishes to call itself the european union and to commit itself to providing funding for actions to combat desertification. secondly, the european union must be more royal than the king. the commission has also been very active in the fight against illegal logging, and it is not surprising that the commission has been able to take part in the negotiations on the regulation of the european union's timber industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat desertification, and i am pleased to say that the commission is taking the necessary steps to ensure that the desertification of the mediterranean is not reduced to a mere matter of a few days. if the former wants to prove its existence, it must take its own measures and not go to madrid as a mere observer.
author. – mr president, burma has the shameful record of being ruled by one of the longest-lasting military dictatorships still in existence. burma has been under a totalitarian military regime for 45 years. an ex-british colony, burma has suffered a traumatic post-colonial period, which has been fertile ground for the firm establishment of a military junta. since 1962, army generals have ruled the country and the burmese people have endured severe abuses of their human rights. furthermore, the generals, through their incompetence, have made burma one of asia’s poorest countries and a nation in which corruption has assumed gigantic proportions. in addition, burma has become a cancerous infliction on the rest of the world by being heavily involved in the large-scale trafficking of heroin, with burma being a major exporter of this deadly drug. the power figure in burma today is general than shwe, a person of dubious psychological stability, who is reported to be maliciously introverted and superstitious and who frequently takes important state decisions after consulting astrologers. yet burma is a country gifted with unparallel natural beauty, a uniquely fertile land and rich mineral resources, as well as significant oil and gas deposits. all of these have been the centre of attraction for foreign investors. but, sadly, the benefits of such investments have not reached the people of burma, and have largely ended up in the pockets of the dictators and their collaborators. a hope for return to democratic governing was heard in 1990 when the national league for democracy (nld) won a national election. but the general suppressed all attempts at democratisation and the ndl leader, aung san suu kyi, not only was prevented from assuming power but was also placed under house arrest, and this despite an international outcry. burma has been the subject of human rights resolutions by this house on numerous occasions in the past, and some sanctions have been in place for years. but it has all been in vain, mainly because the burmese ruling regime enjoys the support of china. the truth is that if we really want to effect democratic changes in burma, we must direct our blame and our attention at the chinese government. we can put pressure on the chinese, e.g. by threatening them with trade sanctions and an investment embargo on china. if we are brave enough to do that, then we stand a chance of changing things for the better in burma. if not, then i fear this resolution, like all the previous ones, will end up in general than shwe’s dustbin.
author. – mr president, bangladesh is territorially about the same size as greece but has a population almost twice that of germany. it became a nation only in 1971 following years of civil war which involved neighbouring ex-british colonies, pakistan and india. bangladesh suffered 15 years of military dictatorship and, although civilian government was restored in 1990, the country is far from having a true democracy. today, it is a very poor nation plagued by widespread corruption, political interference by the military, severe abuses of human rights, bans on political activities, discrimination against women, religious extremism and a long list of other evils, some of which are mentioned in the resolution. yet, as is stated clearly in recital n: ‘the eu and bangladesh have good long-lasting relations and are important economic partners’. this is true, but so much for choosing our friends and partners and so much for being successful in helping such friendly nations to improve their state of prosperity, their level of democracy and the rule of law. in fairness, the eu has tried to improve things in bangladesh, but has it tried hard enough? has the aid given to bangladesh been directed properly at improving the nation’s productivity infrastructure or has it been deviated into the pockets of corrupt officials? has the pressure on the military to stop interfering with the nation’s political life been severe and determined enough, or has it been weak and ineffective? one can provide one’s own answers to these questions. however, my view is that we are a long way from doing what is necessary; there is an urgent need to review our policy on bangladesh, not excluding the implementation of sanctions and certainly including the serving of stern warnings to neighbouring pakistan and india to resist the temptation of interfering in the internal affairs of bangladesh.
author. – mr president, those who strongly support the respect for human rights – members of this house included – have fought hard to ensure that a special court for sierra leone was set up and notorious killers, like charles taylor and his criminal mob, faced trial and punishment. those same people now view with disbelief the grim prospect that the effort to bring charles taylor to book may end up becoming a farce because the special court in the hague ran out of money half way through the trial. such an eventuality will no doubt be a serious blow to international justice and it will make our citizens lose all faith in the rule of law and order. furthermore, it will send a very clear encouragement to criminals worldwide to pursue without fear their evil acts of committing genocides and other despicable atrocities against humanity. irrespective of the outcome of the plea to somehow keep this special court on sierra leone alive and functioning, one cannot help but raise the following issues. firstly, the usd 89 million requested by the court to conclude its operations is surely a vast amount of money. how come it is so vast? we all know that lawyers make a bomb, but not a nuclear bomb! could not such a court operate on a more economically efficient budget? are there perhaps expensive extravagances and gross inefficiencies resulting in large amounts of financial waste? secondly, how much did it cost for a very similar court in the hague to try, to the extent that it did, slobodan milošević? was the budget then not subject to limitations and why was that so? is it perhaps different to commit a crime against humanity in europe than in africa? these questions need answers, which, from my experience in this house, i know i am not going to get, and our citizens may have to resign themselves to believing not that the rule of law holds true but that money rules the law.
mr president, last week we returned from palestine, where we had the opportunity to see with the committee on development the situation in both the west bank and the gaza strip. the situation has recently reached the point of no return. it has gone from an 'open prison' to a 'tragedy' as imports are banned by israeli authorities. this creates a problem, for example, in hospitals, which have medicines but no spare parts for their machines. also, the streets are littered with garbage and there is a danger of overflowing sewage tanks. in short, the humanitarian situation is desperate. the people of gaza live on a piece of bread and the difference between the two palestinian territories is beginning to become apparent. we must therefore act as a parliament to bring gaza out of isolation, to bring about a viable solution based on the needs of a people, not just one side.
mr president, i wish to congratulate ms thomsen on her excellent report. i also wish to congratulate the four draftspersons of the opinion who offered useful additional points and advice. even to the most difficult-to-convince-people, and that probably includes mr chichester, who has now left, it is now clear that our planet is warming up dangerously and that climate change is a real threat to life on earth as we know it. how much of this change is due to natural climatic variation and how much is due to the accumulation of climatic change gases in our atmosphere is still a matter of some dispute, among scientists and politicians. where there is no dispute is that the accumulation of gases such as co2 is certainly making climatic change worse, much worse, and even at this late stage, when the catastrophic effects of climate change have commenced, the world is awakening slowly, perhaps too slowly, to the urgent need to do something about it. the eu is one of the frontrunners in trying to deal with this problem. the road map for renewable energy in europe is certainly an important step in the right direction and i am sure it will have the full support of most meps, but once a proper legislative framework is achieved, member states must be compelled to implement it and effective monitoring systems must be put in place. in order to have a real effect in halting gas-induced climate change, two further goals must be achieved. firstly, a road map for renewable energy must extend further than the eu to cover as much of the world as possible. this is a formidable task, indeed. secondly, we must understand that we must make our citizens themselves understand that, along with action and renewable energies, we need to reduce energy spending in general. if we go on increasing our energy needs indiscriminately and seemingly in a limitless fashion, then, irrespective of how many road maps on renewable energy we draw up, all will be ineffective in the end.
mr president, 65% of toys imported into the european union are produced in china. also, one particular american toy company recalled in august some 18 million toys worldwide that had been made in china. the problem centers on the high levels of lead found in the paint on these toys. this raises the serious question, what is the future we want for our children. because in their frantic effort to shrink production costs, the multinationals overlook the costs imposed on public health. the commissioner, mrs kuneva, said that she was going to review the legislation on games. i congratulate her on such an initiative but at the same time i regret that the commission is once again called upon to play the role of firefighter when one would expect it to have a greater role in anticipating such unfortunate incidents.
mr president, we have read the reports of the two colleagues carefully, but they do not contain any proposals which fundamentally differentiate the measures and policies promoted by the council and the commission. frontex, for which more funds are being requested, is not only a mechanism for policing our borders but can also be used as a platform for checking third countries bordering on the union. the solution to combating illegal immigration is not to set up mechanisms of repression and intervention, nor to set up detention centres or to collect biometric data in central databases and to treat all those who try to cross our borders more broadly as terrorists or criminal elements. at the same time, the creation of a legal immigration framework will not become a means of combating illegal immigration if we continue to use it as a pretext for promoting measures that serve the european union as a whole without taking into account the rights of the immigrants themselves. the recommendation does not condemn the use of biometrics, does not separate control from migration management and does not target those migrants who do not fall into the categories of useful brains and necessary manpower to serve the needs of multinationals. migration is a two-way relationship of supply and dialogue, exchange and interaction, cooperation and respect between peoples and people, understanding and ensuring equal opportunities, and it is our duty to promote policies in this direction and only in this direction.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the portuguese presidency on the determination, speed and activity it has shown so that we have today a text of the reform treaty to be put forward at the intergovernmental conference in lisbon. i hope that the governments there will rise to the occasion and take up their responsibilities so that we can get out of this stagnation in which we find ourselves. i would also like to assure the portuguese presidency that this parliament, in its overwhelming majority, stands by it and we expect a positive outcome in this chapter. first agreement and then ratification by all countries. i have heard various comments on this effort to further european unification and i am surprised by those who, while disguising an anti-europeanism, invoke the best to destroy the good. let them be honest, because if they do not achieve better integration and integration of the european union, then let britain come, let france come, let germany come, let poland come, alone, to face the challenges of globalisation. let them come to secure peace when nationalist rivalries lead us once again to crisis and perhaps war. we must understand that the vision of the european union cannot be put in a drawer. it must be promoted. we must do this and make continuous progress so that all these states, all these peoples, can face the future of the world, not just europe, on the basis of principles and values. this is the vision we must pursue, and this european parliament stands with you, mr prime minister.
mr president, in order to assess the report of the two rapporteurs, mr severin and mr lamassoure, correctly, we must take account of certain facts and apply certain rules. first of all, we must approach the report in a european way and not in a nationalist way. if we do not do that, we will have a competition as to which country gets more and which less. secondly, we must take account of certain facts, such as the fact that the european parliament does not decide on the composition today, it makes a proposal to the council and the council has some margin and some basis on which to build, even if this has to do with the past and is not considered to be as balanced. the additional point is that we have to apply the figures given to us. 750 members, 96 at most and 6 at least. we cannot start bargaining for both the in and out populations. we must make a compromise based on the existing situation both with regard to the populations and with regard to what is happening in other areas. we are not here to re-establish the european union. when we do, we can move on to other accounts. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. i would like to ask my german friends - who have always been generous, otherwise we would not have had the european union today and in the past - and my colleagues in other countries to approve the lamassoure and severin report tomorrow by the largest possible majority.
mr president, developments in palestine are extremely rapid and leave us little room for manoeuvre. so, we're talking here about the humanitarian situation in gaza, while at the same time the israeli authorities have unilaterally decided to expropriate hundreds of acres of arab land to proceed with project e1, the construction of a road that will de facto cut the west bank in two. you are aware that the international community has opposed this plan. i think it would be appropriate for parliament to take a position on this. but political ferment did not allow it. the result is simple: we are once again spectators, while the situation in palestine is getting worse and worse, with the result that the negotiating position of the palestinians is deteriorating day by day and that the prospects of success for the forthcoming international conference on the palestinian question in november are being called into question.
member of the commission. mr president, today is a noteworthy day. exactly 500 years ago the german cartographer martin waldseemüller created his striking single vision of a brave new world in which europe was linked to africa, asia and the americas by its oceans and seas. 10 october also marks the day when the king of portugal mandated bartolomeu dias to seek a trade route leading to asia, and in the united states columbus’s discovery of the new world is celebrated today. it is therefore a day worth recalling in the maritime world. for my part, i am proud to come here today to this parliament to talk about a new and exciting maritime future for europe. this is a future that builds on the strong maritime heritage that europe has inherited from the past, yet which also looks strategically forward to determine how europe’s well-being and prosperity, so closely dependent on the oceans and seas, can be enhanced. inspired by our own distinct vision of the oceans and seas, the commission earlier today proposed an integrated maritime policy for the union. for the first time in its 50 years of existence, the european union has explicitly recognised that an integrated approach is needed for the seas and the oceans. this radical departure has its origins in the compelling argument that there is a maritime dimension to virtually every major issue facing europe today – energy, climate change, innovation, international competitiveness, job creation, environmental protection, trade, transport and so on. whichever sector one looks at, one can see strong links that run between them and the maritime sector. it would be unwise, indeed short-sighted, for the european union to operate in these policy areas without taking account of their overlap with maritime affairs. what we need is a single vision where policymaking can be done in a cohesive and all-embracing manner so as to maximise the potential of these intense and complex interrelations. at a time when the discussions about global warming, globalisation and eu competitiveness have acquired new urgency, one can hardly ignore the undeniable need for a maritime strategy that directly treats these issues. today i am pleased to announce that the college of commissioners backed an integrated policy document that will deliver exactly what the european union has lacked until now: a genuine, single vision of the oceans and seas. it is not just a question of fisheries or shipping, or of trade or regional development, or of research or employment, or of the environment or relations with third countries. it is a policy that encompasses these, brings all these strengths together and treats them as an interrelated whole. it is a policy that will feed from and into other community policies. at the college meeting earlier today, it was in fact a package of documents that was adopted. this package is made up of three key components. the first is a communication which details the aforementioned integrated maritime policy for the european union. this is accompanied by an action plan which outlines the first steps that will be taken towards implementing the policy. then there is a communication which sets out the conclusions reached following the broad and immensely successful public consultation that was held over a period of one year. you will quickly recognise the key elements of the package, i believe, because they reflect in large measure the priorities you yourselves have expressed. allow me to just mention the following: deploying europe’s strengths to combat climate change through research and innovation, through more sophisticated planning for vulnerable coastlines and by taking the lead in international discussions; a european strategy for marine research and a commitment to excellence in marine research technology and innovation to help meet the lisbon goals for growth and jobs and to fully exploit the opportunities that lie in new technologies; better regulation of maritime transport to help create a true, barrier-free european maritime transport space in the internal market and to support europe’s external trade in this era of globalisation; respect for the crucial role in driving economic growth and an examination of how eu funding can best reinforce sustainable growth and boost prosperity in remote and disadvantaged regions; ensuring that all forms of development take account of the environmental impact by fostering environmentally friendly shipping, reducing pollution risks and promoting ecosystem-based fisheries; better use of planning tools, data networks and horizontal coordination to support decision-making for marine spaces and coastal areas and to ensure international compliance with rules; backing maritime clusters and regional centres of maritime excellence to raise europe’s competitiveness. this will particularly help small firms that are such an important part of europe’s high-tech maritime industries. it will help realise the huge growth potential of coastal and maritime tourism and it will be an additional element in helping to improve the attractiveness of maritime careers. the commission today also adopted a communication aimed at boosting the attractiveness of maritime careers by initiating a review of the exclusions faced by seafarers and fishermen from various pieces of the european union’s labour legislation. this is a sensitive area of great concern to many of our stakeholders. a background document on the important links between the european union energy policy and maritime policy has also been published today. we well know that there are enormous challenges ahead. to address these, we need concrete proposals – proposals that are ambitious enough to meet the challenges we face head on. in past centuries the seas and oceans have opened up new and exciting opportunities for europe. now, at the start of the 21st century, we hope to discover our own modern-day new world of opportunities. i believe that we really are at the start of something new. i also believe that by setting in motion the actions detailed in the package adopted today we will be firmly setting europe on the path to explore these opportunities in a novel way. as the saying goes, ‘nothing ventured, nothing gained’ and, while that is true and most certainly is part of the inspiration that propels us forward, it is prudent to note that, like the voyages of discovery of the past, today’s venture will have a cost too. there will be a first stage in 2008 characterised by a series of preparatory actions; these will need the involvement of other partners and we will need to secure, together with your support, the necessary funding. these actions are a direct follow-up to the thinking behind your report of 12 july, where i was delighted to see that you had clearly indicated your backing for these actions. there are a number of other supporting actions which are already well advanced and which include a communication of 17 october on port policy, another on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and a third on sustainable tourism. these will later be followed by actions on maritime clusters and on maritime transport. complementing all of this will be a discussion on 22 october in lisbon with the 27 member state ministers responsible for maritime affairs, which will include ministers of transport, fisheries, the environment and defence, amongst others. this will feed into a later discussion which will take place at the december european council with a view to endorsing this policy. today is, therefore, not the end of the voyage, nor is it the beginning. it is, however, a significant milestone, marking a decisive shift away from a period of reflection to what you in parliament requested of us and what we in the commission are looking forward to: a period of action. the european parliament has been a key player in this process and has given us invaluable feedback. i would, therefore, like to renew my thanks to parliament in general and to the rapporteurs and members who have shown particular interest in this project more specifically. i have been particularly glad to take part in many of the hearings and meetings held in parliament. i sincerely look forward to continuing this dialogue. parliament will remain a central figure in the evolution of this policy. making a success of the maritime policy is not something that the commission can, or wishes to, undertake alone. its success depends on maintaining a common approach. i hope that i can count on your continued collaboration. as i said at the start of my statement, today is indeed noteworthy. we have set sail on a new and exciting adventure. this is an adventure that we trust and believe will bring increased and sustained prosperity to europe. we have ahead of us an ocean of opportunity.
madam president, may i, on the occasion of this commission communication on a maritime policy for the eu, remind this house of the continuing embargo imposed several years ago by turkey on all shipping associated with the republic of cyprus. this embargo inflicts significant damage to the shipping industry not just of cyprus but of the eu in general... (remarks from the floor) i am speaking english. it would indeed be exciting if we had interpretation from english to english. i was just talking about the embargo that turkey has imposed on cyprus for several years now, and i was saying that this is causing extreme damage not just to cyprus, which is a member state, but to the eu in general. may i once again ask the commission to redouble its efforts to convince the turkish government to reconsider its decision to continue to uphold this unfair and unnecessary embargo on the shipping of an eu member state. i understand that we must be soft – rather soft – on turkey, but our patience is running out. after all, what sort of maritime policy can we have if the ships of a member state cannot use the ports in the shipping lanes of a candidate member state? please, commissioner, can you reassure us that you will give this matter your urgent and serious attention?
member of the commission. madam president, as a woman and also as a member of the commission, first of all i would like to thank the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for the defence of women in europe, but also worldwide. this report, presented today, is indeed to be seen within this context of a global fight against gender-related violence. this is how we see it, and i thank the rapporteur very much, mr romeva i rueda, for what he said. feminicide is a tragic issue which covers a much broader problem, that of violence against women, which we must fight at all levels: at local, but also at global levels. and i would like to talk to you about what we as a commission are doing to address the question of gender violence in general, again, and also in particular. to promote it through our external relations policy in mexico and in central asia. also, if you allow me, i would like to say a few words about my recent visit to the region, because i was there just last week (but not in mexico). i visited panama, el salvador, honduras and nicaragua. i had already been in mexico and i will go there most probably next year. i can tell you that the commission is on the frontline in the effort of preventing violence against women. let me remind you that, on 8 march 2006, the commission issued what we called a ‘road map for equality between men and women’, outlining the eradication of all forms of gender-based violence as a priority objective. in march of this year, we adopted a communication on gender equality in development cooperation, stating that gender-based violence in all its manifestations violates women’s human rights and is indeed a serious obstacle to the achievement of equality, development and peace. the commission also supports projects on education and on awareness-raising interventions aimed at engaging all adolescents in programmes aiming at changing their behaviour in relation to violence against girls and women. for instance, as i said, i was just in el salvador, and i visited a programme that is called ‘pro jóvenes’, which is for girls and boys – but especially for girls – who have either already been in the so-called maras, or who could enter into the maras, in order to prevent them from doing so. i was most impressed by this programme. the new european instrument for democracy and human rights also provides a wide scope for activities in the field of gender equality. concerning the situation in mexico, i would like to point out that eu-mexico relations are based on our 1997 global agreement, in which article 1 identifies human rights as a fundamental element of eu-mexican relations. on that very basis, both parties have established what i think, in the mean time, is a fruitful cooperation in the fields of human rights and justice, a cooperation which is then carried out through our different commission programmes implemented by the mexican federal authorities, as well as through projects carried out also by non-state actors and by ngos. the mexican authorities also keep us informed about gender-related violence in mexico. so we learned that a number of cases had been resolved and many others were under investigation. my last personal conversation with the new mexican foreign minister – who is, as you know, also a woman – was in santo domingo, where we mentioned this question of feminicide and where i got some relevant information about what the mexican government is doing. they have also a special human rights adviser, another lady who is also working particularly on this issue. in the case of central america, as a region, the country where the issue is most critical is guatemala. our approach has been to confront the issue, both in our dialogue with the authorities and through, again, a number of activities on the issue of violence against women. this includes the mainstreaming on the gender dimension in all the cooperation programmes. the commission also organised, in march last year, an important communication campaign targeted at young people and decision-makers on how to stop violence against women. in the same period we also welcomed the creation of a national commission on feminicide, composed of officials from the executive, the judiciary and also the congress, and a total of 18 state institutions. recently, we also noted the creation of an international commission against impunity in guatemala, which we also strongly support. as a part of this commission programme supporting the judiciary, a specific component is dedicated to feminicide. in particular to activities carried out by the so-called ceprom. this is the presidential office in charge, with whom we have a memorandum of understanding on cooperation. let me also mention our support for the preparatory work for the revision of the law against feminicide, now before congress, with a view to the revision of the penal code. finally, let me say that i found a lot of goodwill and pro-european spirit in this trip to central america on this issue. i was really positively surprised by the interest in enhancing regional integration, and cooperative attitudes also towards the forthcoming negotiations of an association agreement. i must say it was very important to see that even the interest in panama was much higher than i expected. i am looking forward to the possibility of everybody there being included. the first message that i passed on there was the importance of achieving progress on the negotiations that will finally start at the san josé process in costa rica. this is important because, naturally, it will be a political dialogue there; there will be a cooperation programme, and there will also be free trade negotiations. but it will be a compact programme. social cohesion will be among the most important issues in the whole of latin america, including central america, and there this programme also has a very great importance. indeed, juvenile violence and violence against women are issues that we find have to be there because we have to all do everything in order to diminish violence in society.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, violence against women in mexico and central america has, in recent years, reached dramatic proportions, with thousands of women having been the victims of violent deaths, which on many occasions have been extremely cruel in nature and often accompanied by sexual abuse and torture. although in many cases the perpetrators of such atrocious crimes are sick-minded individuals, in many situations organised criminal activity is very much involved, and the implication of human trafficking, prostitution and drugs is largely in evidence. it is very sad that in mexico and central american countries the functioning of the rule of law in certain cases leaves a lot to be desired, either because of real organisational deficiencies in the police and judiciary systems, or because of corruption and impunity. the rapporteur, mr romeva i rueda, is to be congratulated for making sure that this report is strong enough to send the necessary message not only to the governments of the countries concerned, but also to the world as a whole, about the totally unacceptable high level of femicides in the aforementioned states. the small number of final amendments – which incidentally have the rapporteur’s full support – are useful and make this report more complete. my group fully supports all those amendments. it is to be hoped that this report will be voted through this house with a very large majority, so as to give a very clear signal to all concerned that the problem of the killing of women in central america, as indeed in other parts of the world, is a matter that should attract our full attention and necessitates the taking of very drastic and effective remedial measures.
mr president, unfortunately, by the time i have finished this speech, two people will have killed themselves. this is because worldwide one person commits suicide every 30 seconds. a staggering one million persons, many of them young men and women, end their lives every year. suicide is very relevant to the eu because five out of the top ten countries in terms of suicide rates are eu member states: lithuania, estonia, hungary, slovenia and latvia. in fact, lithuania has the highest suicide rate record in the world. these are very sad statistics for the eu as, in most cases, the cause of suicide is preventable. the eu has a duty to its citizens to urgently reduce suicide rates in its member states. i request you, mr president, to address personally all eu member state governments and national parliaments, especially those of the five aforementioned countries, and urge them strongly to redouble their efforts to prevent suicide amongst their citizens. by so doing, many thousands of lives may be saved each year.
madam president, this is an oral amendment to amendment 7 on recital s, and it is to replace the words ‘authors of crimes’ with the words ‘perpetrators of crimes’. this is necessary, otherwise the sentence will have no meaning in english.
mr president, following the unifying outcome of the lisbon summit last week, it is sad to be reminded that nicosia is still a berlin-like divided city in europe. since 1963, a so-called green line has divided the city and its people into a greek cypriot and a turkish cypriot sector. this line is closely guarded by turkish troops on one side and republic of cyprus troops on the other. the division is most absurd at ledra street, a busy shopping road in the centre of nicosia, which is cut in half by a glass wall running across it, separating greek cypriots from turkish cypriots. mr president, i beg of you to make an urgent personal plea to the governments of turkey and cyprus to take the historic step, without any complicated preconditions and seemingly cheap political excuses, of opening ledra street and allowing greek and turkish cypriots to move freely across their capital city. let the opening of ledra street in nicosia become another symbol of peace and unity for the people of europe and the catalyst for the solution of the cyprus problem.
mr president, last week aram diek, the son of the murdered turkish-born journalist, han diek, was convicted by a turkish court for a series of articles on the armenian genocide. dick, an editor at the newspaper argo, was convicted under article 301 of the turkish penal code, the same article used against his father. the sentence imposed is one year's imprisonment with probation. it is therefore reasonable to ask what the european commission is doing to push turkey to remove this article from its criminal code. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in turkey, and we are therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the turkish authorities are not forced to accept the new situation.
the budget of the european union, mr president, is the main instrument for implementing political priorities. we could say that it has three elements at the forefront of its policy: the competitiveness of enterprises, 'anti-terrorist' action and its intervention in third countries. it is precisely on these three headings that the expenditure in the budget is concentrated, whereas the interests and concerns of the masses of the citizens are entirely different. they concern their future employment, their income, their pension, their education in public school and university. but let us ask ourselves about these political priorities set by the budget: do they really improve the lives of citizens? is the european union fulfilling its obligations as a global actor in a fair way? how does the budget of some €741 million for the area of freedom, security and justice improve the lives of european citizens? in the commission's recent consultation document on budgetary reform, the commission states that today - but especially in the future - what should guide the budget is the intensification of competition for raw materials and markets, the shift in the balance of economic power, the opening up of vast new markets that create new opportunities for europeans. but it is precisely this perception that is leading the peoples of europe on adventures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, this motion for a resolution is balanced, precise and comprehensive, and the rapporteur, mr florenz, deserves our honest congratulations on his work. my only criticism of this resolution is that it has come too late. the supporting scientific evidence and the undisputed need for the policy options contained in this document have been clear for all to see for many years. it is sadly certain that the delay in making significant progress towards achieving a europe free from tobacco smoke will have brought about the deaths from a preventable cause of hundreds of thousands of eu citizens. who is to be blamed for this massive sacrifice of human life? i will mention only two of the main guilty parties so as to shame them, even though not in a sufficiently drastic fashion. firstly, the tobacco industry. it has spent millions of euros on campaigns of lies and misinformation. it has manipulated the media, politicians and even scientists in order to buy more time, and this it has done purely and simply for financial gain, knowing full well that thousands of lives were at stake. secondly, the governments and some political parties of many eu member states. they have bowed to the power and influence of the tobacco barons and have continued to hold back on taking effective measures to protect their citizens against the plague of smoking. even straightforward measures, such as increasing tobacco taxation and making free treatment of tobacco addicts widely available, have been suppressed. i support an overwhelming vote for this resolution and i urge you not to forget the despicable behaviour of those who knowingly caused the tragic loss from tobacco-related diseases of so many lives.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, with turkey's prospects of membership of the european union in mind, the commission and, by extension, the union as a whole, are called upon to complete in the coming days the assessment of the progress made or not made by turkey in the various areas where it is called upon to conform to the european acquis. we have stated our position that if turkey complies with all the copenhagen criteria and the commitments it has made under the accession framework and the additional protocol, it should be able to join the european union. we believe that any compromise solution will not bring about the results that either turkey or the union are hoping for. we must note that some progress has been made by turkey, but we reiterate that in order to proceed smoothly with its accession process it must do what the previous acceding countries have done and comply with its contractual obligations towards the european union as a whole. therefore, turkey should also fulfil its commitments towards cyprus, such as opening turkish ports and airports to vessels and aircraft of the republic of cyprus, and lifting the veto on the participation of cyprus in international organisations and multilateral treaties. as a group of the left, but mainly as akel, we are convinced that the prospect of turkish membership of the european union creates the conditions for turkey to comply with its obligations and, above all, for the end of the occupation of cyprus by turkish troops. we also believe that encouraging turkey on its european path - which requires that it also fulfils its obligations to the european union - can be a lever for the defence and respect of the human rights of all the inhabitants of turkey, including minorities and kurds, for the recognition of the armenian genocide and for the lifting of the closure of the borders with armenia with all the socioeconomic consequences that this entails. if turkey is to continue and complete its accession process, it is clear that its measures and policies must lead to full compliance with the european acquis and full respect for international law governing the european union's operations.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her report. and now for a news flash: what will happen if turkey, mr president, ignores the european union's appeals and invades northern iraq? what are turkey's intentions? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in cyprus is not repeated. the occupation of kurdish-speaking iraq to further complicate the efforts of many, including european countries, to stabilize iraq? how can member states or candidate countries be destabilising agents when european soldiers are being killed for the sake of stability? i would remind you that turkey has a military presence in 40% of cyprus. this did not prevent it from opening accession negotiations. i would remind you that turkey is still not complying with the european union's request to extend the ankara protocol. i wonder what the european commission's report, due on 6 november, will say about this. if the message is one of tolerance, why not tolerance of the many other principles and values which characterize the european union? in the end, the big question is: we are talking about enlargement or a contraction of the values of the european union.
mr president, turkey is an important country for political, economic, military and cultural reasons, and it is therefore important to the eu. realising this, the eu has decided to commence accession negotiations. the path towards accession has not been very smooth, but it has helped initiate a much-needed democratic reform programme in turkey. such reforms are welcomed both by the eu and by the citizens of turkey. those reforms must continue, and for that reason, at least, our support for turkish accession must be firm. nobody is ignoring the fact that problems exist. my country, cyprus, is at the centre of one such problem, but i, like most people in this chamber, realise that problems are not solved by conflict, but by peaceful negotiation. a more european turkey is much better for discussing and solving problems with, and hence i fully support turkey’s accession to the eu. consequently, i endorse the compromise reached through the wise handling afforded by ms oomen-ruijten, with the honest and fruitful cooperation of all those interested colleagues, who may have differing opinions on certain specific issues, but who all agree on the principle that the eu can achieve more by cooperating constructively with the turkish people than by destructively antagonising them. turkey is undergoing a difficult period right now, and the use by the eu of more carrot and less stick is presently the appropriate way to proceed. let our overwhelming support for this report be proof to the turkish people that we do want them in the eu, and let it be a help for greater and faster reforms in turkey and for enhanced facilitation of solving the far too longstanding cyprus problem.
mr president, turkey is a candidate country for membership of a united europe. it has rights and obligations. the rapporteur is presenting a balanced interim report. it gives turkey another chance to make progress on reforms and to meet its obligations. these commitments focus on economic change, respect for the copenhagen criteria, human, religious and minority rights. we want turkey to change because it wants to change, but also because the times demand it. the turkish government has also made a number of changes to its policy on cyprus, including the recognition of the republic of cyprus and the end of the occupation of cyprus. the report rightly states that the withdrawal of the turkish army will help the solution, and that the turkish army can be replaced by a small european force with the mandate of the security council. obligations also concerning the end of the settlement and demographic change in cyprus, the repatriation of the settlers - who are the vast majority in the occupied areas and are the ticking time bomb at the foundations of the solution - the end of the expropriation of greek cypriot properties in the occupied part of cyprus, the end of the destruction of our cultural heritage and, as a first step for turkey, the respect of the decisions of the united nations and the return of the city of asmodeus to its inhabitants. if turkish cypriots are perceived by ankara as isolated, it is because of the presence of 45,000 turkish troops that keep greek cypriots isolated from their homes and property. turkey holds the key to opening the door to its accession to europe and to the solution of the cyprus problem. the turkish policy of two states in cyprus is not a solution. we live in an age of unification, not division. we say yes to a european turkey and yes to a european solution based on the principles of a united europe, as the rapporteur rightly points out, to create a viable model state for the whole of europe, where greek cypriots and turkish cypriots, christians and muslims can live creatively and peacefully, based on the practice of mutual respect for the principles and values of a united europe.
mr president, i would just like the word ‘urgently’ to appear after ‘commission’, for obvious reasons.
member of the commission. madam president, i too would like to say thank you very much to mr cappato – tante grazie! i welcome this very timely debate on the drug problem – and particularly on afghanistan’s drug problem – which, as we know, is a major complex issue in the political and security context. we recently had a lot of discussions in new york. there were a number of very important discussions during the un general assembly with president karzai, with un secretary-general ban ki-moon, and with a host of countries. these focused exactly on this whole complex question. tonight’s discussion contributes to the wider debate on afghanistan’s reconstruction, but also on the role of drugs. let me also commend you for setting up the ep delegation for relations with afghanistan. we are taking a keen interest in your work and consider it very important that you have done this. afghanistan’s drug industry does indeed pose an enormous challenge to progress in state building. the latest united nations development programme (undp) report makes for troubling reading. both poppy cultivation and processing capacity have, unfortunately, increased significantly. afghanistan’s southern provinces are most affected, with 70% of all the production. the strong link between the insurgency and the drug economy hardly comes as a surprise. however, we must not overlook the positive developments, especially in the more stable parts of the country, where there have been real improvements in health and education, as well as economic growth. thirteen provinces in northern and central afghanistan are indeed poppy free. that, at least, is very promising, and something on which we can build. the cappato report gives a complete picture of this situation – and i should thank you for your encouraging remarks on what the commission is doing – and it also points, quite rightly, to afghanistan’s responsibility for tackling the opium industry. on that we are in absolute agreement. yet i must say that i cannot share – at least not yet – the conclusions reached in the report, which proposes to legalise the opium poppy for medical purposes, albeit on a trial basis. at first sight that may be an appealing proposition, but unfortunately there are no simple answers to afghanistan’s complex drug problem. let me share with you some of my concerns. countries like australia, turkey and india, which are already producing raw opium for medical purposes, usually have effective law enforcement and also an absence of widespread conflict. even then, implementation is very difficult. where such conditions are not being met, opium cultivated legally is promptly diverted, as we have seen in peru and bolivia. obviously, in the case of afghanistan, licit cultivation would, we fear, simply add to illicit cultivation instead of replacing it. also, the legal production of opium remains unappealing to local farmers as their revenues would only be around 25-30% of what they can now obtain on the black market. the implementation of such a scheme is complex, and only feasible with subsidies for quality monitoring and the distribution of medical products. should we support this with taxpayers’ money? the afghan government, which is notoriously weak and has weak institutions, unfortunately does not at the moment have – and that is why i said ‘not yet’ – the capacity to oversee such a scheme. in some parts of the country, there is simply no governance, let alone good governance, at the moment. this applies notably to the unstable southern provinces, where the bulk of opium is produced. finally, the afghan government itself has firmly ruled out – and this is an important argument – any licit production of opium. against this backdrop, the political message in this report does not really send the right signal to our afghan partners. it might even backfire. the hard and undeniable truth is that reconstruction in afghanistan will need much more time and resources. it will also require stamina, if we want to bring lasting development to this war-torn country. progress in state building is only possible with more resolve, including from afghanistan’s political leadership, notably at the local level. that was, by the way, the message we gave in new york. i agree it is high time to visibly tackle corruption. we have not only said this, but are also trying to help in this by building up a good judicial system and having a police force that really works, in order to convince ordinary afghans who often remain sceptical. there is a clear way ahead. it is through afghanistan’s national drug control strategy, which has been endorsed by the international community and contains all the elements needed. this really deserves our unequivocal support, being a comprehensive strategy that includes interdiction, public information, prosecution of known drug dealers and the promotion of local development. where such a careful policy mix has been used, farmers have already abandoned poppy cultivation, sustainably. in that context, the commission considers that a proposal to legalise the opium poppy might simply undermine the work it is currently doing in other sectors, notably concerning the rule of law and policing.
madam president, i speak on this matter in a personal capacity, and not on behalf of my group. the production of illicit opium in afghanistan has flourished since us and allied forces have been in that country. this despite the setting-up of various anti-drug-production authorities and anti-narcotic programmes, sometimes using large amounts of eu taxpayers’ money. so it is obvious, even to the blind, that the afghan people will go on producing opium come what may. the reason for this is quite simple. the world’s anti-narcotic agencies are growing in size, number and expertise, and they are doing their job more effectively. they are therefore managing to confiscate larger amounts of drugs. however, since the demand from drug-addiction sufferers remains unaltered and since criminal drug traffickers continue to make huge profits from the illegal supply of opium to these sick people, the price of opiates goes up and the profits from dealing in opium increase. therefore, the afghan people are just following basic liberal market principles. they are increasing their production in order to meet illicit trade demand and in order to increase their profits. so it is a pure fallacy to expect that sponsoring more opium control programmes in afghanistan is going to have any significant effect. the only way to deal effectively with opium production in afghanistan, and elsewhere for that matter, is to deal with the drug problem globally. the only common-sense way to do that is to legalise drugs and recognise that drug addicts are not criminals, but sick people who need help. if those addicts were offered therapeutic drugs in a controlled medical setting, then the chance of avoiding serious side-effects, as well as the chance of achieving detoxification, would be much improved. at the same time, the enormous criminality involved in drug trafficking would vanish, and all anti-drug police agencies would be scrapped, leading to phenomenal budgetary savings. the logic of this is so basic, but politicians worldwide are having difficulty seeing it.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i think the report is an interesting contribution to dealing with a very complex issue: the difficulty of cross-border debt recovery. i think the rapporteur, mr lechner, is to be congratulated for paving the way for a general european solution to the current fragmentation of national rules on enforcement, which severely hampers cross-border debt collection. this situation is of particular concern to a creditor who has the misfortune of seeing his debtor swiftly moving his money out of a known account into another account in the same or another member state. therefore, the commission welcomes parliament’s report. i will carefully consider the main concerns expressed by the rapporteur and by parliament in relation to the green paper. in particular, the form and the scope of the possible community instrument, the effects of future procedure, the legal condition for granting an attachment order, the compensation of costs and the protection of debtors are important issues that have been highlighted by the rapporteur. i can confirm to you that any proposal or communication in this area will be preceded by an in-depth evaluation and impact assessment, in close cooperation with this parliament.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal. madam president, i welcome the commission's initiative to regulate the issue of temporary freezing of bank accounts across borders. i would like to congratulate the commissioner responsible, mr frattini, on this initiative. the commission's green paper on this subject has set in motion procedures to deal with the problem of judicial decisions being avoided by the operation or movement of bank accounts across national borders. the measure in question is part of the strategy for developing judicial cooperation between the member states of the european union. it is a good thing to do, and it should be done soon with a proposal. the cause of justice is not served if judicial decisions, criminal or civil, cannot be enforced. the proposal under consideration to freeze off-shore bank accounts is therefore precisely what is helping to develop and consolidate justice. the european parliament rightly takes a positive view of the commission's initiative and the legal proceedings under way. the lechner report and the opinions of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs set out the basic parameters for preparing a balanced proposal for a council decision on the subject. i congratulate mr lechner on his brief but comprehensive and complete report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the report, which is expected to be adopted by an overwhelming majority, stresses the need to meet the conditions for issuing a crossborder bank account seizure order, but also the parallel need to protect against abuse of the procedure and to provide guarantees for the payment of compensation to the alleged debtor if the order proves to be unfounded in the end. i am of the opinion that my suggestion that the freezing order could be used at the end of the judicial procedure as a means of enforcing a final exequatur decision, which mr lechner does not support, should be given serious consideration when the commission's proposal is tabled. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. i would ask the commission to prepare the proposal without delay.
for the ppe-de group madam president, freedom, security and justice are three words we hear very often and constantly in the european union. the three pillars of the hague strategy, which are intended to serve all the member states of the union, both individually and collectively. the principle of mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments, which was identified by the tampere european council in 1999 - eight years ago - as the cornerstone of judicial cooperation, is in danger. the few steps taken to implement this principle are taking place at a very slow pace. mr varvitsiotis has touched precisely and has touched the cause of evil. it is the private, nationalist positions that exist from different states. the council framework decision on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in criminal matters in respect of persons deprived of their liberty by another member state of the union, which is the subject of mr varvizioti's report, is evidence of the sporadic and slow action taken to create an area of freedom, security and justice. because it is one of many measures that should have been taken already and because it took a long time to take shape. in any event, we welcome the conclusion of the consultation procedure and the establishment of a common position on the recognition of judgments in criminal matters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the recognition and supervision of suspended sentences, alternative sanctions and conditional sentences, which is the subject of mrs esteves' report, is certainly another step in the many steps that need to be taken to implement the principle of mutual recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions. the french-german proposal aims to reintegrate convicted persons into society by giving them the opportunity to serve suspended sentences, alternative sanctions and conditional sentences imposed by a court of another member state in the member state in which they reside. the rapporteur has done a very good job and i congratulate her. i think that the definition of legal and habitual residence is not correct. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. i understand, however, that there is a problem with the translation of both these sentences, so i ask mrs esteves to make the necessary verbal amendments so that the text is rendered correctly in all the languages.
madam president, the most important aspect of the existence of the eu and its institutions is to uphold the fundamental principles of justice, democracy and respect for human rights, especially with reference to the citizens of europe. our union would have no raison d’être or functional purpose if it did not have as its main objective to offer a fair, comprehensive and efficient service to the people of europe. the european citizen was, is, and always will be, the centre of our efforts as a functioning union. it is mainly for this reason that the activities of the ombudsman are of such paramount importance. this is because the ombudsman is the friend and guardian of the european citizen and is the facility through which community institutions and bodies can be held to account over whether they have served the citizen properly and whether they are guilty of maladministration or bad practice. we welcome the 2006 annual report from mr diamandouros and congratulate and thank him for the very good work he and his staff have performed in upholding the rights of european citizens. at the same time, we congratulate the rapporteur, ms sbarbati, on her excellent report, which contains many important points and suggestions. i find most interesting, for example, the suggestion made in paragraph 12, which in effect encourages the ombudsman to draw up and publish annually a list of shame and a roll of honour for the eu’s administrative services. may i point out that the proper functioning of the ombudsman may inevitably, in rare instances, lead him to be disliked by certain services. in such cases, the ombudsman deserves – and must be reassured of – our full support. lastly, may i commend the active support and cooperation the committee on petitions has shown the ombudsman in the performance of his duties. the work of both those entities is very often interlinked, and their smooth cooperation is to be much appreciated and praised.
author. – mr president, this is not the first time, and i fear that it will not be the last, that this house is called upon to deal with the situation in iran. that country, which has all the natural resources for achieving an envious standard of living for its people, is unfortunately sinking deeper into the abyss of dark ages-like totalitarian governance, with the resulting gross violations of the human rights of its citizens, and with iran becoming more and more isolated from the rest of the world. the continued practice of barbaric acts such as the stoning to death of citizens, including women and children, and the non-recognition of the quality of the rights of women and of political opponents, is a stigma to civilised living. every day, reports reach us of even more cases of arrests, torture and killings of innocent civilians by the authorities of iran. (the president asked the speaker to slow down)i hope that will not cost me time, mr president. incidentally, that is why i speak in english – so that people can understand me without the need for interpretation. (applause from certain quarters)thank you, mr tannock. freedom of speech and freedom of the press is pretty much non-existent in that country, and all this at the same time as the secretive work to produce nuclear weapons is going ahead against all common sense and in spite of international outcry. the iranian regime, blinded by short-sighted nationalism and extreme religious fanaticism, is following a road that can only lead to confrontation and consequent suffering, mainly to its own people. let us once again, on the occasion of voting for this resolution, send a message of support to those iranians fighting for freedom and democracy, and let us again make clear to the extremist rulers of iran that our patience is running out fast owing to their foolishly dangerous behaviour. can i conclude by informing colleagues of some good news from the united states which i have just received, which is that the us administration has decided to put the revolutionary guards on the terrorist list.
mr president, the murderous attack on unsuspecting supporters welcoming back ms benazir bhutto in karachi on 18 october has been another callous terrorist act against the prospects of bringing about democratic change in pakistan. the international community watched in horror as more innocent civilians were sacrificed in a nation where the dictatorial regime of general musharraf is dragging the country into a state of fear and breakdown of law and order. this brutal individual, with his corrupt governing group of associates, is a cancerous infliction on the people of pakistan. regrettably, he is still in power, largely because he is supported by the west, especially the usa, but certainly also by one or two eu member states. the time has now come when the west must immediately pull the carpet from under mr musharraf’s feet and provide support, not for him, but for the democratic reform forces in pakistan.
author. – mr president, this house has repeatedly been dealing with the dire situation in darfur, the last resolution having been adopted only in mid-september this year. the news that, at the end of september, a murderous attack took place against an african union base in south darfur, resulting in the death of 10 peacekeepers, the serious injury of eight other personnel, and the apparent taking hostage of approximately 40 people more, has come as a grim reminder that, despite our efforts, much remains to be done in order to secure peace and stability in this sad corner of the world. we should, of course, recollect that at least 200 000 people have died in darfur during the four-year conflict, and more than two million people have been forced from their homes. the september attack on african union peacekeepers must force the eu and the un to make sure that peacekeepers in darfur are adequate in numbers and training, that they are properly and fully equipped and that they are given adequate logistical and other necessary support in order to fulfil their task safely and effectively. merely sending poorly trained and ill-equipped au civilians into highly hazardous situations does not, as has been demonstrated in this case, serve any useful purpose other than to reduce the cost in terms of money but increase the cost in terms of human lives. an urgent rethink and replanning by the international community is essential. last but not least, we must not forget those 40 people still missing and thought to have been taken hostage. every effort must be made to establish their fate and help bring them safely back to their loved ones.
member of the commission. madam president, we as the european commission join with the european parliament in strongly condemning the killing of the african union peacekeepers in haskanita, and in other incidents over the past year, and, of course, the fact that many others are still missing. we should not pretend that even the larger peacekeeping force due to take over from the current african union mission in sudan (amis) will be able to protect itself easily to ensure the vast humanitarian operation supported by the european commission and so many other donors and to keep the peace if there is no peace to keep. this is the question. we acknowledge the acceptance by the government of sudan of the presence of the un peacekeeping force on sudanese soil. along with the rest of the international community, we intend to keep the government to its word. we welcome the intention of the government to declare a cessation of hostilities when negotiations commence in libya on 27 october, yet the government needs to go further. the european commission also calls upon the government of sudan to engage meaningfully in negotiations intended to result in the equitable sharing of power and of wealth in darfur. we join with the rest of the european union in calling upon the rebel movements themselves to declare an end to the killings and banditry that sully their cause. we also call upon them to participate wholeheartedly in the talks in sirte. on top of that, as you know, un security council resolution 1778, adopted on 25 september, mandates an international multidimensional force to contribute to the stabilisation of eastern chad and the north-eastern central african republic and thus also guarantee the security of the local civilian population, refugees and displaced people and stabilise the situation in sudan. on this basis, the general affairs council and foreign affairs council on 15 october decided to send an interim and multidimensional european force of 3 000 troops, eufor chad, as we call it, to support and complement in the short term the deployment of the un contingent. taking into account the regional dimension of the darfur crisis, the deployment of this new eufor chad mission and of a un police mission in parallel with unamid in sudan is, i think, a crucial step towards facilitating a durable solution of the conflict in darfur and, ultimately, also towards the voluntary return of the sudanese refugees who have settled in chad. i can tell you that, at this very moment, an irish general is there exploring the situation and exploring where exactly eufor should be deployed. but coming back to the question of sudan itself, let me say that we firmly believe that the future of sudan lies in the sharing of wealth and power, in a federal government and a federal arrangement. this is what the government and the rebels agreed in naivasha in january 2005, when the comprehensive peace agreement was signed, ending decades of civil war between the north and the south. the international community must stand firm behind this comprehensive peace agreement. for if this agreement can be made to hold – yes, it is at present in difficulty, but these difficulties need not be terminal – this will demonstrate powerfully that similar arrangements can surely be extended to darfur. so through the support extended also under the european development fund for the recovery and rehabilitation of southern sudan and for the long-term equitable and sustainable development of the whole of the country, we are standing firmly behind the comprehensive peace agreement. we also back the efforts of the eu special representative to sudan to facilitate peace in darfur and, along with other donors, we stand ready to ensure that the peace dividend, in the shape of the rehabilitation and recovery of darfur, follows closely on the heels of a renewed peace agreement. we think it is in the interest of all the parties – the government, the darfur rebels, the countries of the horn of africa region and the international community – that sudan stays together. however long and arduous, and at times discouraging, the sirte talks might turn out to be, i think we must be steadfast for peace in sudan. the unity of this country remains within our grasp.
madam president, i ask for your leniency, and that of my colleagues, in submitting a last-minute oral amendment on account of the fact that we have just been informed of the arrest of a prominent human rights defender in iran. the amendment is to add to paragraph 15 the following sentence: ‘condemns the arrest and imprisonment of human rights defender dr sohrab razzaghi on 24 october 2007 and calls for his immediate and unconditional release;’ i have already spoken with most of the other political groups, and they are in agreement.
mr president, it is almost certain that the foot-and-mouth disease virus that caused enormous damage to the british economy last summer escaped from the pirbright laboratory in surrey. this establishment is an eu reference laboratory which is supposed to protect our animals from contagious diseases and not to cause epidemics through incompetence. in the last two weeks the same laboratory has been the protagonist in what appears to be another fiasco. it has been issuing scores of confusing and sometimes contradictory results, with respect to foot-and-mouth disease, on animal samples sent from cyprus. this apparent irresponsible behaviour has had severe effects on hundreds of farmers on the island. the cyprus authorities blame all the confusion on the european commission, and the citizens are understandably rather upset. before pirbright causes another dangerous blunder, could you please ask the commission to take this laboratory off the list of animal testing reference laboratories and replace it with a more trustworthy facility, for agriculture’s sake?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we also welcome the commission's actions and efforts, the legislative programme and the work programme, which emphasize the adoption of more environmentally friendly measures in the transport sector, the review of european energy policy, the reinforcement of biodiversity, and the marine environment strategy. we recognise the leading role that the european commission has so far played in the fight against climate change. several of my colleagues have spoken before about climate change. i would just like to say that in accepting the inevitable period of climate change that we have to accept, i disagree on this point and i think that we should not accept it, but instead we should push our partners to comply with the kyoto protocol, to follow the subsequent kyoto commitments to reduce emissions, but that we as europeans should also do what we have always been saying. the european commission also places a strong emphasis on health and has proposed a large number of legislative and non-legislative packages. patient safety and quality of health services, pharmaceuticals, organ transplants, rare diseases, innovative technologies to combat chronic diseases are among the issues the commission intends to include in its programme. the commission's objectives are very ambitious, but we must wait to see the details. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health services directive is implemented. under what conditions will the free movement of patients and health professionals be allowed? how can we avoid a disproportionate burden on health funds? these are just some of the questions that we should be considering with regard to this new directive.
madam president, i too wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. at the same time i wish to congratulate the chairman of the committee on petitions, its members and secretariat for the splendid work they are carrying out. the committee on petitions, despite the fact that on occasion its attendance by meps is rather slim, is, i believe, one of the most important committees which links the ordinary citizen of europe with the eu institutional order. it provides the mechanism through which our constituents can feel closer to the eu, and it greatly facilitates a feeling among citizens that the eu institutions are not faceless and blameless bureaucrats, but that they also can be held to account, and responsibilities can be asked for and criticisms directed at those that do not do their job as well as they should. importantly, this report shows that the continued dialogue of the committee on petitions with the ombudsman and the commission has been a most useful exercise, but, sadly, the cooperation with the member states and the council leaves a lot to be desired, and this is an area where significant improvement is needed urgently.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, congratulations to mr vakalis for his excellent work. this report highlights the fact that, although earthquakes can have a devastating economic and social impact in seismic-stricken regions, not enough attention has been paid to them by the eu. the rapporteur advocates – and rightly so – that a series of regulatory and financial measures are urgently needed in order to remedy this unhappy state of affairs. such measures should aim at minimalisation of damage caused as well as facilitating speedy and effective response and compensation to affected individuals and communities. mr vakalis states that an area which should be given special attention is that of research. i agree. not necessarily of course research in predicting earthquakes, a practice which has been proven to have limitations, but research in the way we construct our buildings. attention to more stable, robust and lightweight materials is an example. safety features to prevent electrocution and electric fires being caused after a tremor are another area where research can help prevent loss of life. research into telecommunications systems that do not get so easily jumped in the panic that follows an earthquake and research into specialised equipment for detecting and extracting victims from collapsed buildings are other areas where research can be most helpful and very rewarding.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are considering today stresses that the european union's humanitarian action must be guided by the principles laid down by the rules and good practice of humanitarian aid. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity. the european union, which gives and takes. in the case of palestine, on the one hand we give money and boast of being humanitarian, and on the other hand - through foreign policy - we leave 1.5 million people on the economic and social margins with no hope of future improvement. the moral of the story should be this: humanitarian aid without a realistic foreign policy is not possible. the two go hand in hand. it is time the commission realised this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject which the commission is presenting today is full of contradictions. let me make two points: first, the commission stresses that the increase in adaptability to globalisation needs to be intensified in order to ensure sustainability of the living standards of citizens. this is not possible today, given the failure of the lisbon strategy. the truth is that these policies of increased competition are exacerbating inequalities in wealth and ownership of the means of production and only the european commission can see a boost in prosperity and an end to uneven growth among the countries of the european union. secondly, we learn from the text that the commission is working for a social europe. but we've been hearing it for so long, and we haven't seen it. a simple example: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. this, like many others, is hitting the low-income pocketbook and no economic and social strategy of the commission seems to be countering it.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. many of them with a phobia and a totally negative approach. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and the european union is a major player in the world economy. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union, and it has been a key player in the development of the european union. there's no turning back now. globalization is an ongoing event whether we like it or not. the great global village is being built, as president barroso said. the european union has european interests to defend and must therefore be involved methodically, systematically, collectively and dynamically in the process of globalisation, with a view to formulating the correct rules for the operation of the new world system. the european union must take the lead. the aim is the good of the european citizens, of course, but also of the citizens of the world. the european union, as a community of principles and values, must promote its human-centred character and promote it internationally. to transform economic competition into genuine competition for the promotion of freedom, democracy, the rule of law, social justice, respect for human rights, protection of the environment and peaceful coexistence between peoples and individuals. this is the role that the european union can and must play in the process of globalisation.
author. – madam president, for thousands of years man’s presence on earth has been subjected to the perils of lethal forces outwith his powers of defence or understanding. such forces range from disastrous natural phenomena to incomprehensible somatic and mental illnesses. man’s powerless status has been made easier to cope with through his belief in a superpower entity he called ‘god’. different human groups developed a different understanding and a different approach to god. the result has been the creation of a large number of religions. such religions are, of course, man-made and not god-made and therefore suffer from several weaknesses. such weaknesses include fanaticism, dogmatism and failure to accept other people’s right to believe differently. these weaknesses differ in number and in intensity amongst different religions and unfortunately they have often been exploited by extremist religious leaders and unscrupulous politicians. this has led to religious wars and to the committing of despicable crimes against human beings in the name of religion. both christianity and islam, two of mankind’s main religions, have not been exempt from these sad inflictions and history is full of shameful examples to illustrate the point. of course, with the passage of time, most religions became more mature and more humanistic and this is certainly true with christianity. but this change has not happened with some other religions, unfortunately. this is why in some countries, mainly islamic countries, christians are being persecuted, sometimes with extreme criminal vigour and sometimes with the consent of political groups and even governments. this is indeed a very sad state of affairs, which involves a range of countries or regions worldwide – some of them have already been mentioned in this chamber today – but it is more specific in the middle east. with this resolution we hope to bring attention to the persecution of christians in these countries and hopefully to help in making sure that the authorities, both political and religious, in such countries fully understand that such aggressive behaviour is neither compatible with the principles of respect for human rights nor with the true teachings of a caring religion. thank you madam president, as you can see i still have 20 seconds to spare!
author. – madam president, the persistence since 1989 of the tyrannical governing regime of uzbekistan under mr karimov is a cancerous infliction on democracy. mr karimov’s regime is responsible for the implementation of a policy of terror and corruption in his country, with the victims being, of course, mainly the people of uzbekistan. these people are subjected to arbitrary arrest and detention, to torture and ill-treatment and, while there have been numerous demands for democratic reform, both by the international community and the eu, mr karimov carries on taking no notice whatsoever. this reminds me of another individual who is governing his country in a similarly totalitarian manner and takes no notice of those who call for democratic reforms to be implemented. i am talking about king abdullah of saudi arabia, a country where women have no right to vote, and even no right to drive a car, and where serious human rights abuses are part of everyday life. in this respect, sadly, some eu governments are guilty of double standards: they attack mr karimov ferociously – and quite rightly so – but are very gentle indeed with king abdullah. in fact, recently king abdullah was given an extravagant welcome on state visits to britain and italy. the main difference between uzbekistan and saudi arabia is money – lots of it – and as long as king abdullah spends his billions in britain and italy, his involvement in gross violations of human rights and democratic institutions in his country can be conveniently overlooked. that, i suppose, is why, when i suggested that the situation in saudi arabia be discussed here today, it was turned down ceremoniously by almost all the groups. perhaps more sensitivity might be shown next time, i hope.
author. – madam president, somalia has been the subject of european parliament and un resolutions in the past. unfortunately, the situation there has not improved and the prolonged destructive civil war has carried on unabated. the resulting tragic human suffering continues, with hundreds of thousands of poverty-stricken refugees, thousands of malnourished and dying children, and the reported emergence in the region of contagious diseases like cholera and hepatitis. that country is in a desperate situation, where anarchy and the law of the jungle prevail. in this joint motion for a resolution, as in previous ones, we make a series of useful suggestions, such as the cessation of all foreign military intervention in somalia – mainly from ethiopia and eritrea – and full implementation of the arms embargo against somalia, which, although imposed 15 years ago, is sadly still to become truly effective. we also make a call for protection of freedom of the press by strongly condemning the somali government’s systematic harassment of the media and its shameful failure to investigate the killing of journalists whose reporting was deemed to be critical of the government. we make these calls conscious of the fact that the chances of them being listened to are very slim indeed. still, we must persevere in the hope that perhaps common sense and a humanistic attitude will at last prevail and that the somali people eventually will see more peaceful and prosperous days.
madam president, on a point of order before we proceed with the vote, i note once again that there is no council representation in this chamber. this is now becoming almost a permanent situation, and perhaps something needs to be done about it.
mr president, the annapolis conference on the middle east issue ended with mixed results for the european union. in recent months both commissioner waldner and high commissioner solana have reassured us in the house that the european union is playing an active role in shaping middle east policy. but reading president bush's speech today, that doesn't come up anywhere. i read instead that the contracting parties agree to set up a mechanism for implementing the road map, which will be controlled by the united states. the implementation of the forthcoming peace treaty will also be based on the implementation of the road map with the usa as the final criterion. so where is the european union? what message of hope can we give for the future, as mere spectators?
mr president, on a point of order, some of us have been waiting here since 7 p.m. – the time now is 9.40 p.m. – just to get a chance to speak in the one-minute speeches. now you cut it down to less than 15 minutes. it is not fair for the meps who have been waiting here all evening. we should, perhaps, have been warned earlier on so that we would not have had to wait so many hours.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the tourist industry, madam president, particularly in countries such as cyprus, spain, greece and others, is a sector of major economic importance. the european commission, however, has not said a word about workers in the tourist industry. this is an industry that may be the first to introduce flexible working hours for workers, and where seasonal layoffs are on the agenda. it is also a sector where the employment of foreigners raises two central issues: their over-exploitation on the one hand, and their exploitative use by large hotel chains to reduce wages or benefits for locals on the other. the european commission also merely confirms the fact, without any substantive comments, that the reason for the creation of jobs in the sector is the high degree of parttime work and flexible working conditions. the concept of longterm employment therefore seems to be a summer night's dream.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, venezuela is a country of exceptional natural beauty and is very rich in natural resources. it has some of the world’s largest deposits of oil, coal, iron and gold. despite its natural riches, the majority of venezuelans have remained very poor, with far too many living in conditions of appalling poverty. only a small minority belonging to a rich elite have benefited from the country’s riches. under those conditions of gross social inequality, it is no wonder that populist politicians like hugo chávez have emerged as saviours of the poor. it is also no wonder that mr chávez’s nationalisation programme was welcomed by most venezuelans. they saw hugo chávez as someone who was going to lift them out of the misery of poverty and deprivation. the same thinking applies to the forthcoming constitutional reform referendum. i am sure that referendum will secure the necessary popular approval, and it is too late now for public opinion to be changed. therefore, what we will in essence have after 2 december is the emergence of another fidel castro. it seems that, just as one totalitarian leader is fading away in cuba, another is being born in venezuela. however, in diagnosing that sad reality, we should, perhaps, also ask whether we in the west are in any way to blame for how things are turning out in venezuela. we must do this not just so that we can be morally and politically correct academically, but also so that we can, in practice, prevent similar occurrences in the future. sadly, it is apparent that, in our dealings, with venezuela over the last few years, we have made numerous grave mistakes. hugo chávez got to where he is today partly because we have helped him through our foreign policy omissions and commissions. therefore, in contemplating our strategy on how to deal with him in the future, let us start by saying ‘sorry’ to the venezuelan people.
in writing. political parties at european level have different and sometimes conflicting political positions towards european policies in different areas. therefore, any european political organisations associated with political parties must be independent in order to promote their political positions in any way they deem appropriate. european political organisations under this regulation are to be entrusted with the promotion of official european policies, which are often at odds with the stated positions of political parties. this is a direct interference in the political activity of european political parties and the national political parties which make up them. it would also constitute an indirect interference in the political and electoral processes in the member states since it would create - through the funding provided - 'favoured' and 'unfavoured' political parties, with consequent effects on the results of the european parliament elections. any regulation should therefore promote freedom of opinion and transparency, without interdependencies that bind the positions and processes of european and national political parties.
mr president, the european union-africa summit was held in lisbon. the joint text agreed on placed a great deal of emphasis on cooperation agreements between the union and african countries. the commissioner responsible for the area, mr mandelson, said that the agreements would give a boost to africa's development. if we leave aside the fact that for years we have ignored political aid at the expense of economic aid, it is appropriate to ask ourselves what more we can offer to the african countries when we know, for example, that in the last 15 years the union's exports to the african continent have increased by 84%, which has forced the poor countries to use 57% of their gdp to import food that they could have produced locally. the only beneficiaries of this cooperation are the large european companies. so let's not be sturdy and call it what it is: we give money which we get back immediately.
mr president, it is human rights day today, and the world is plagued by a plethora of examples of human rights violations. amongst these examples is that of my tiny home country, cyprus. for 33 years, turkish forces have occupied part of the island and kept 200 000 refugees away from their homes. for 33 years, the turkish army has held the uninhabited town of famagusta and uses it to blackmail the greek cypriot community. for 33 years, turkish soldiers have imposed a berlin-like division of the capital, nicosia. and all this because the turkish military seem to dictate turkish policy on cyprus. let us hope that mr erdoğan’s new government, realising how unjustifiable it is to have an eu member state occupied by its forces, will order his turkish chief of staff, mr büyükanıt, to withdraw his forces from the island as soon as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to thank and congratulate mrs lienemann for her efforts and the way she conducted the negotiations with the council and the commission. i would like to focus on some of the main positive aspects. the whole directive will sufficiently emphasize the measures necessary to comply with and achieve a good environmental status, the deterioration of which will be avoided. although the european parliament had initially requested in 2017, the timetable for member states' compliance is set to 2020, a realistic date proposed by the council in coordination with national representatives. member states will provide an initial assessment by 2012, identifying good environmental status and stating consistent environmental objectives. the european parliament was able to obtain clear commitments from the council on integrated policies and approaches which would encourage member states to cooperate in order to achieve a good common environmental status. this directive also takes into account the common fisheries policy, by exploiting fisheries resources in a sustainable manner, while allowing the integrity of ecosystems to be maintained or restored and, where necessary, to protect spawning, farming and feeding. finally, as regards the financial resources, the implementation will apply to the existing financial instruments under the financial resources and in accordance with the economic perspective for 2007-2013, to be renegotiated for the next period, given that the general duration of the directive reaches 2020.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, firstly i wish to congratulate mr krahmer for his excellent report on this difficult and most important subject. at the same time i wish to congratulate the shadows and all those colleagues who have contributed suggestions, advice and amendments, which, at the end of the day, have formulated a piece of compromise legislation agreed to in negotiation, and which will attempt, if implemented, to have a better air quality directive and provide, to some degree, for cleaner and healthier air for europe. at a time when respiratory tract infections such as asthma, emphysema and lung cancer are on the increase in many areas of europe, with those affected being mainly the most vulnerable, i.e. children and the elderly, we as legislators have a duty to ensure that we do our utmost to secure more healthy breathing for our citizens. to this end, we were united in our determination not to give in to the unreasonable demands of the council, which did not accept any changes to the provisions regarding the existing daily and yearly limit values of pm10 and rejected outright parliament’s proposal to link any derogation with the adoption of additional eu measures on sources of pollution. although an agreement has been reached, the council must nevertheless understand that this house gives greater priority to the health of its millions of citizens than to the wealth of a few european industrial giants. everybody must fully comprehend that parliament is much more concerned with preventing people’s lungs from being destroyed by disease than helping the purses of greedy industrial barons become fatter. i am confident that this house will have a future opportunity to have all its provisions successfully adopted in a less compromised piece of legislation that will truly and comprehensively protect citizens from major respiratory damage.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, for some families, this christmas will be a period of tragedy – tragedy because of the loss of a child. what makes such tragedy even more painful is that (a) it could have easily been prevented and (b) that it was caused by a gift of love – a joy that turned into a murder weapon. yes, a murder weapon. because those that produce unsafe toys know full well that those toys can and eventually, perhaps, will kill a child. therefore putting such a deadly toy on the market constitutes, in my view, the committing of murder and consequently those that through their omissions fail to prevent such a crime from taking place are accomplices to the act. madam commissioner, we all know who are the culprits that, in this respect, kill or injure our children. they are the cheap chinese toy manufacturers. and what protection have you to offer our citizens? not enough, i am sorry to say. you are happy, it seems, that in 43% of cases reported in the latest rapex-china report corrective action was taken, but, madam commissioner, how about the 57% of cases where no corrective action was taken? and how about those potentially dangerous toys which were not reported at all? you have said that ‘in this world you cannot given 100% guarantees’ but ‘you can make sure the system is fit for purpose’. what purpose, madam commissioner? the purpose of cutting safety corners in order not to upset the chinese government? there is only one way of dealing with this problem, madam commissioner: ban all imports of chinese toys till the chinese government can give a 100% guarantee that no dangerous toys will be sold in europe. only then will you be fulfilling your most important function of truly protecting our children from death caused by chinese toys. and remember, madam commissioner, mere progress from china is not enough, because even one child’s death is one too many.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank parliament for the opportunity to discuss this very important issue and to comment briefly on the motion for a resolution on a mine-free world, which we received today. ten years after the approval of the ottawa convention we can celebrate considerable progress in the achievement of its objectives. one hundred and fifty-six states have ratified the convention, and the use of anti-personnel landmines has been markedly reduced in recent years. fewer mines are being produced and there is virtually no trade in this hazardous weapon. since the adoption of the ottawa convention in 1997, the european community has been highly committed to its universalisation and to the achievement of its objectives. mine action has been part of the european community’s assistance and development programmes in third countries, which have covered a wide range of activities – stockpile destruction, mine risk education, mine victim assistance, rehabilitation and socioeconomic reintegration. a dedicated budget line, complemented by funding from other geographic instruments, underpinned the ec mine action strategy and programming. in total, approximately eur 275 million was committed over the 2002-2007 period, making the ec one of the leading donors worldwide. as parliament has noted in its resolution, the ec mine action strategy comes to an end this year. an evaluation will be carried out to assess whether it responded adequately to the nairobi action plan. a preliminary internal analysis shows positive outcomes. with the changes in the commission external funding mechanisms in 2007, the anti-personnel landmine budget line has been replaced by new instruments for ec external assistance which can be used for funding appropriate mine actions. geographical budgets for development, pre-accession and the neighbourhood policy are now the key financial instruments. in urgent cases, action in the area of anti-personnel landmines and explosive remnants of war can also be funded by the humanitarian aid budget and the new instrument for stability, which allow for funds to be mobilised rapidly in cases of crisis or emerging crisis. this is the new legislative environment, agreed by the budgetary authority, in which we must operate. the ec’s overall approach, however, remains unchanged: landmines and other explosive remnants of war must be considered within a broad context of humanitarian assistance, long-term and sustainable socioeconomic development programmes. countries wanting assistance need to prioritise mine action in their requests to the european commission. we fully share parliament’s concern, also expressed in its comments on the instrument for stability strategy, that a security gap in this important humanitarian field has to be avoided. although means and methods have changed, the ec’s commitment to the ottawa convention continues. in 2007, the european community committed assistance for mine action for a total of at least eur 33 million in the following countries: belarus, bosnia-herzegovina, cambodia, cyprus, ethiopia, guinea-bissau, jordan, lebanon, senegal and sudan. i want to assure parliament that the commission remains firmly engaged in continuing its support for the implementation of the ottawa convention and its assistance to third countries in destroying stockpiled anti-personnel mines, clearing mined areas and assisting victims.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the ottawa convention on banning mines has been very successful in saving thousands of lives and in preventing thousands of people from becoming severely wounded. unfortunately, however, there is still a lot to be done and a long way to go in order to achieve a more drastic reduction in the manufacture and use of mines. so, as we celebrate the 10th anniversary of the ottawa convention, we must turn our attention to how to achieve the signing and ratification of this treaty by all states in the world. my opinion is that we should proceed as follows. firstly, we must produce a much-publicised name-and-shame blacklist of all countries that have not signed and have not ratified the convention. this concerns 31 countries to date, amongst them, unfortunately, the biggest countries in the world, i.e. china, india, russia, the usa and others. secondly, we must try to impose strict and effective sanctions on the countries on this list so as to attempt, at least, to force them into signing. thirdly, we must set up a very effective and quick mine-clearing service which would be available on request to states that are not capable, i.e. for reasons of cost or lack of expertise, of dealing with such a problem on their own. consequently, we must invest more in research on how to carry out demining more efficiently. fourthly, we must make sure the obligation to deal adequately with the health and social assistance to victims of landmines is fulfilled by all countries concerned. to this end, a more sufficient funding system must be made available to poorer nations. fifthly, the time has come to direct our attention, not just to anti-personnel mines but to all mines, as well as to other types of weapons that have the capacity to go on killing after a conflict has finished, an example being cluster bombs.
member of the commission. mr president, success has been achieved in the last 10 years, as many of you mentioned, but it is clear that significant challenges still lie ahead. every year, landmines still leave thousands of civilians dead and thousands more with missing limbs, and they contribute to keeping countries in post-conflict poverty. this is why we will continue to pursue action in support of the ottawa convention. the european commission is determined to continue its efforts to financially assist communities and individuals affected by landmines, through all available instruments.
mr president, may i note with regret that, in this debate, as indeed in the previous debates, i.e. in the dangerous toys debate and in the fire safety debate, there has been no representative of the council in this chamber. i think that this is shameful.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's wine sector is not affected by the crisis. the first is an anti-productive and anti-environmental process, involving the forced withdrawal from the profession of thousands of small and mediumsized farmers who, instead of being supported to stay in the profession, are being sent off to become cheap labour. as regards the addition of sugar, our objection is based on the fact that the authorized increase of up to 4.5% vol. and the use of the term 'wine' for drinks not made from grapes will degrade the quality and the special characteristics of the wine. the so-called 'simplification of labelling' will also further contribute to the degradation of quality, since the obligation to register the wine-growing region will not be included. i would like to point out that, for better or worse, there have been mass extirpations in my own country in the past, for example, but there are no support measures at european level for them at present. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today should be a day of support for producers, not of throwing them into the vortex of unemployment and falling incomes.
madam president, the trialogue on this subject has already been concluded and we are simply being asked here to agree on a complex matter. the commission's proposal is complex because it seeks to provide a global solution to problems of a specific scope. it is therefore proposed that the commission should be able to impose fines as an alternative to the european aviation safety agency's power to withhold an air carrier's certificate in the event of an infringement. it is noted that under this regulation the said service will be responsible for issuing the certificates. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. while this whole grand scheme seems to have been put into a proper technocratic mold, i do wonder who will bear the political responsibility for possible future mistakes, a responsibility which today rests with the responsible national minister or head of the civil aviation authority. in this particular case, therefore, we are creating, in the name of integration policy, an agency which has no reason to exist, since these matters could very well be settled at multilateral level within the framework of existing mechanisms such as icao. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of air transport is not compromised, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we now have 22 external services of the european union. at some point, we have to stick to the basics.
mr president, it would be a mistake not to start by expressing my concern about the general use of the term 'extremism' without defining and condemning in particular extremist acts, that is to say, any extreme form of unlawful use of force. it would also be wrong to mention attempts to wake up citizens to the risks of radicalisation and the associated simultaneous creation of a rubber band for potential criminals. i would like to remind you that in modern history, at times when in the name of security, policing and strict controls, freedoms and rights have been curtailed and there has been an opportunity to prosecute on the basis of generalisations, ideological fanaticism, racism and xenophobia have been exacerbated and unpunished crimes have been committed. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. we must therefore ensure that democracy does not become a pretext for the institution of punitive measures alone, but at the same time we must embark on efforts to mitigate the real causes of violent acts of extremism which, by definition, go beyond the limits of freedom of expression and degrade every shred of human dignity. our task is to work to combat poverty, unemployment, poverty, the exploitation of workers, social exclusion and to ensure that the younger generations, through proper education and training, are kept away from chauvinist and fascist organisations which promote expression through extremist acts.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank parliament and, particularly, the rapporteur, mr adamou, for the continuous and constructive cooperation as well as the support in reaching this very important cooperation agreement. the establishment of the agency for fundamental rights was a big success for the promotion and respect of fundamental rights in the european union. it is also a success in terms of interinstitutional cooperation. i have always been committed to ensuring that this important initiative is fully supported by the three institutions. smooth cooperation between the european union and the council of europe is crucial for ensuring the success of the agency. the draft council decision reflects this objective. it represents the genuine will of the two organisations to work together, and i am delighted to see that the negotiations for the agreement have been swift and made in a very constructive way by both parties. this important agreement will enable the agency to work to the best of its capabilities. indeed, in order to be fully operational, a number of measures have already been taken, and some are still in the pipeline. this agreement will help foster a comprehensive cooperation framework. it will help to provide a structure platform for both bodies, making mutual dialogue and common action both more possible and more efficient. it will also help avoid the duplication of work between the two bodies. the agreement provides for regular contacts and meetings between officials of the agency and the council of europe, as well as for the regular exchange of information. the appointment of an independent person to sit on the management and executive boards of the agency fosters an exchange of views and cooperation. finally, this agreement reinforces our shared objective to promote and to protect fundamental rights in the european union.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at the excellent cooperation so far between the fundamental rights agency of the european union and the council of europe, particularly in reaching an agreement satisfactory to both parties. i hope that their future cooperation will continue smoothly on the same basis. despite extensive discussions and consultations with the shadow rapporteurs on the substance of the report, we were informed by the tabling office that under rules 83 (7) and 51 (2) of the rules of procedure it was not possible to amend the text of the agreement and, as regards the report itself, only procedural amendments would be accepted, which caused several colleagues in the libe committee to vote against the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council of europe, and i am sure that the council of europe will be able to take them up in the next few months. the european union's system of principles for the protection of fundamental rights has been developed mainly by the case law of the court of justice of the european communities and has been confirmed by the explicit recognition contained in the treaties of the european union. however, it is particularly important to ensure that this human rights protection system is further strengthened, while ensuring basic principles such as non-discrimination, non-exclusion, respect for freedom of expression and religion, freedom of conscience, and social and economic rights. the european union agency for fundamental rights could provide the relevant institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the community and its member states with the above-mentioned guarantees in the application of community law. it is important to recognise that it is precisely the council of europe which has developed, through its advanced work in the field, a comprehensive system of rules, legal and judicial instruments for the protection and promotion of human rights and the rule of law and has accumulated a wide experience. the common objective of the protection of fundamental rights, shared by the fundamental rights organisation and the council of europe, must therefore be achieved in a substantial and positive manner, avoiding duplication of work and any potential for the fragility of the established judicial and non-judicial system for the protection of human rights and individual rights implemented by the council of europe. we must be careful not to call into question the legal precedent and the substance of the protection of human rights as formulated by the council of europe, an organization of 47 member states. i would also like to stress that any risks of duplication of responsibilities and procedures should be avoided in order to avoid confusion as to the objectives and responsibilities of the two institutions and to achieve their proper functioning together. this should be reflected, above all, in the agency's annual work programme and in strengthening the coherence and complementarity between the two. as regards the exchange of information between the council of europe and the fundamental rights agency, it is of the utmost importance, to the extent possible, that this exchange takes place in the strictest confidence on both sides. the fundamental rights agency and the council of europe should agree on more specific rules regarding the implementation of article 15 of the agreement, which provides for the agency to provide grants to the council of europe in order to achieve full transparency and to avoid any hint of excessive interdependence between the two organisations. it is also essential to implement article 7 of the agreement in a way that allows the two bodies to exchange, by mutual agreement, as much data as possible, while respecting their procedural rules to the greatest extent possible under the applicable rules on confidentiality. the information concerned must not be used by bodies other than those directly involved in the examination of the issues at stake. they should also not be made available to institutions or bodies of third countries due to the absence of guarantees and controls regarding their use. as i have already mentioned, the cooperation between the commission and the council of europe during the negotiations to reach the agreement proved beneficial and in the same spirit of cooperation, transparency and complementarity the two organisations are also expected to cooperate efficiently in the future. however, it is of the utmost importance that the european parliament be involved in this process through periodic reports and that the council of europe be invited to give its opinion on any reviews or evaluations carried out with regard to the complementarity, non-overlapping and transparency of the work of the two bodies.
madam president, commissioner, four decisive steps have been taken by the european union in recent months to promote and protect human rights. firstly, the human rights task force has been set up. secondly, the reform treaty includes a provision on the binding nature of the charter of human rights and a provision on the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights of 1950. thirdly, the charter of human rights, which, with its publication, becomes part of the european acquis, was solemnly signed in parliament today. a modern code of human rights! fourthly, the ratification of the agreement between the european union's human rights agency and the council of europe, which we are discussing today, is precisely what the european union is constantly stressing, the promotion of human rights, and demonstrates that this element is paramount for any modern society, for any modern state. the council of europe, which has been established as the world guardian of human rights, is not seen as being dependent on, overlapping with or replacing it. on the contrary, a stage of cooperation rather than competition is being created. i therefore agree with my fellow rapporteur on this matter and his report and congratulate him on it. i am an honorary member of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and i feel honoured to be so. but i am also very proud and very happy today that the two institutions, the european union and the council of europe, are launching cooperation in this field and i hope that this century will go down in world history as the century of human rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs grabowska, on her initiative in bringing this matter forward and on her very positive statement tonight. the hague conference, which began seven years ago, is now coming to an end. the question arises as to how far the question of mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments in the field of private international law has progressed. where is the declaration that the principle of mutual recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions is the cornerstone of judicial and police cooperation in order to create an area of freedom, security and justice? the answer is that there has been no great progress in this direction. the programme for the 2004 hague european council has not been properly implemented, despite the efforts and initiatives of the commissioner responsible, mr frattini. unfortunately, the abuse of the right to invoke national sovereignty by some member states hinders the approximation of laws, not only in matters of substance but also in matters of procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. regulation 2201/03 on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in family law, parental responsibility and maintenance matters requires a radical revision and modernisation. the proposal for a regulation amending the regulation does indeed address this need to a large extent, but unfortunately only in the area of nutrition. the differences in the substantive law of the member states in the vital area of justice remain. there's a long way to go. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the amendments proposed by the european parliament fill in many of the gaps in the proposal and improve its content. first of all, many obstacles are overcome which prevent the enforcement of maintenance judgments anywhere in the european union and limit the scope for the debtor parent or spouse to evade justice by moving from one member state of the european union to another. that is precisely the aim of my amendment to rule 33a, which i tabled in an attempt not to leave unlimited scope for not applying a decree on the grounds of a change of circumstances, but to allow for such a treatment when there are serious, really serious circumstances in the matter, which give the court the right to reconsider its position.
madam president, i notice that there is no time displayed on the board. does that mean we will have the privilege of unlimited use of time this afternoon, or is there a technical error?
author. madam president, eastern chad has become a second darfur, and the déjà vu scenes of killings and destruction committed against innocent civilians are coming back to haunt us. meanwhile, we in the eu, being part of the privileged elite of this world, debate endlessly amongst ourselves on how to deal with the situation. while we – most wisely, but very slowly – consider and reconsider our decision to send an effective peacekeeping military force to the region, those criminals who carry out ethnic cleansing continue their despicable acts unhindered. one important – perhaps the most important – message that must come out of this debate today is our strong demand to the commission and council that eufor must be properly set up and deployed to the affected region most urgently. those in the council or commission, or elsewhere for that matter, who delay this action would be responsible for the further escalation of violence and tragedy that will inevitably follow soon.
author. madam president, i will speak in a personal capacity on this matter. saudi arabia is governed by a ruthless dictatorship which is, to a large extent, shamefully legitimised in most of the western world, including many eu countries, because saudi arabia is immensely rich in petrol dollars, some of which it uses in western states in order to bribe them into pretending not to see, not to hear and not to understand what is going on in that country. but even schoolchildren know that the comical rulers of saudi arabia, consisting mostly of the family of one man, his most royal excellency godlike king abdullah, are imposing on their people a brutal repression. one obvious example is that they treat women as slaves or as pieces of domestic furniture yet, as mentioned just now by mr tannock, mr abdullah and his six plane-loads of entourage were given a lavishly glorious state welcome in the uk and the vatican only a few weeks ago. and not a single word about human rights managed to escape through the honourable lips of the queen of england, or the uk prime minister, or the pope. so much for hypocrisy and double standards, one might be tempted to say.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, people can be forgiven for their sins, but people’s crimes cannot be forgotten. this applies as much to japan as it did, for example, to nazi germany or stalinist russia. the japanese committed immensely barbaric war atrocities in the 1930s and 1940s. to some extent, they paid dearly by having two of their cities, hiroshima and nagasaki, annihilated by the mighty nuclear holocaust brought upon them by the us. however, japan inflicted many dreadful evils on the world in the past, and one of these – the sexual slavery of ‘comfort women’ – only came to prominence relatively recently. some of these poor and now frail elderly ladies are still with us, as the remnants of a past that is inconvenient for japan but torturous for them. these women are asking for two very simple things from today’s rich and powerful japan: an official apology and very modest humanitarian aid. certainly, the european parliament, with this joint motion for a resolution, expects and demands that the japanese government must do both and fast. otherwise, aside from the stigma of shame, the eu must consider taking particularly effective action against ex-imperial japan.
madam president, there has clearly been an alteration to the oral amendment, and the author is now in favour of that oral amendment.
