ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european commission has chosen very carefully who will be the rapporteur for this report. she knows that the most common weapon in the european union is the car. that is why the commissioner for transport gave us the opening speech. and now, seriously, the european union's code of conduct on arms exports is really not enough to make anything new happen in this field. i think the report does a very good job of emphasizing this and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. how beautifully titled is the report 'the european union code of conduct on arms exports'. but what's behind it? the major countries of the european union are among the major arms exporters, so after the enlargement of the community, competition must be dealt with quietly. now it's the inside. the fact that the united states, one of the world's largest arms exporters, has not acted on the regulation and that the major states of the european union are still circumventing all export restrictions was unfortunately not mentioned much in the draft report. at least four countries tested missile weapons last year, but the author says north korea and iran are dangerous. the other states are out of bonds. the embargo against china continues, under the pretext that there has been no clear and lasting improvement in the situation of human rights and social and political freedoms. forgive my presumption, but this is the way to ban arms exports to most countries in the world. and we can start with the big countries of the european union and the united states. there's still somalia, saudi arabia at the end, and if i'm wrong, please oppose. and one final note: only belgium and finland require licenses to export arms within the european union, from the old countries, and the czech republic, poland, hungary, slovakia and estonia, from the new countries. the largest arms exporters are missing from the list. here is the biggest problem with the agreements of the past. the gue/ngl group is certainly not the only group which supports the rational control of arms exports, but many other colleagues are also in favour of this. but it's the real impact of all the measures in the proposal. so far, the results are pathetic.
ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the second reading of the third railway package. the composition and inclusion of the package has been controversial from the outset, and the social partners, not just the left-wing meps, have seen it that way from the very beginning. we have clearly stated on several occasions that without an evaluation of the second railway package, the conditions under which the european parliament and the commission adopted it are being violated. rational argument is being pushed aside in this very discussion. apart from the state of infrastructure, the rolling stock and the implementation of the measures under the agreement between the commissioner for transport and the association of european railways (cer), we are also discussing today the very controversial report by mr jarzembowski on the opening of the railway market. it is certainly correct to say that the commission and the council are rightly seeking to extend or to make more flexible the time limits set out in this report. for this fundamental disagreement, the representatives of the gue/ngl group will vote against this report again and again. in particular, there are some dangerous amendments that make the situation worse. on the contrary, taking account of technical realities and the demands of the trade unions and realistic management, we shall support the reports of my colleagues savary and sterckx, whom i congratulate on the result achieved. i would like to say again that some of the amendments could make the situation much worse. i believe that the results of the package vote will be reflected in the new member states' response. this is the use of transitional periods, specification of the conditions of the public transport service, etc. i hope that the problems of the annexes to the cotif convention relating to rail freight will be clarified in the near future, in particular by agreement of the member states which have ratified it. the current situation is unsatisfactory. i would like to conclude by saying that the wording used in the sterckx report suggests rather an attempt to impose penalties in the event of a train delay. i personally would prefer to see instead of sanctions more efforts to comply with the transport contract according to the swiss model, i.e. the basis is to transport the goods and the customer to the destination. in line with this objective, i am sure that not only i but also many other members will be voting on the amendments. whatever the outcome, i believe we will return to this role in the future.
mr president, a number of experts argue that, apart from speculation based on short-term observations, there is no conclusive scientific evidence that industrial increases in greenhouse gases are behind climate change. climate change has been happening for millions of years, and it will continue to happen, so i don't share the belief that humanity can change the course of the planet through our normal activities. i consider such a view to be arrogant anthropocentrism. cultivating the planet is not about emissions trading, about stricter standards and new regulations, it's not about investing massively in reducing emissions from existing energy sources. it is much more prudent to invest in the development of new energy sources and in nuclear power. i believe that the current one-way, anti-nuclear, global warming highway, under the guise of fighting greenhouse gases, leads to a dead end of bureaucratic encirclement not only of our incomes, but of our freedoms, but it is definitely not a growing globe for our children.
the united states military propaganda talks about global terrorism, the axis of evil and the need to provide defense. in the past, it was said, "if you want peace, prepare for war", but maybe it's true, "if you want war, talk about securing peace". i'm afraid the czech public is being misled into thinking that a us radar base on its territory is meant to serve the defense of the world from undefined threats. i believe that the military bases of the united states, whether in the czech republic or anywhere in europe, do not serve security, but on the contrary threaten the security of the czech republic and other european states, deepen tensions, increase the need for armaments and significantly worsen political and energy relations with russia. the current czech government doesn't care about these risks or doesn't have the courage to disagree with the us. but the czech public is aware of the risks, and i am sure that a large part of the european union's population is also aware of the danger, and they do not feel the need to be drawn into the war plans of the united states.
mr. chairman, i am responding to the speech by the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs of this parliament. this week, my colleague leinen accused the president of the czech republic, václav klaus, of having a policy that is against the interests of his own country and its citizens, in connection with his opinion on the european constitution. i want to convince jo leinen that he's wrong. the rejection of the european constitution in its current form is in the vital interest of the czech republic and president klaus is doing nothing but fulfilling his constitutional presidential promise. jo leinen should have just as loudly, while unilaterally extolling the merits of the document, said that the european constitution, for example, provides germany with unjustified and non-systemic advantages for which he was personally elected. if mr leinen does not speak about the european constitution in all its aspects and does not conceal its possible consequences for some countries, it is he whose action is directed against the citizens of the entire european union, and it is he who, unlike the czech president, is holding back the process of european integration.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in the fight against fraud. i appreciate the opportunity to produce a report on discrimination against young women and girls in access to education and i thank all my colleagues in the committee for their comments and contributions. education has always been highly valued by society. so, in the past, humanity has treated access to education the same way it treats access to any wealth, selectively. the underprivileged, the underprivileged had a hard time getting an education. foreigners, immigrants, people of other faiths, and people of other races are even more difficult. women's access to education, especially higher education, was also hampered by prejudice and the strict confinement of the social space in which women were usually required to move. archaic stereotypes, maintained for millennia, are only slowly giving way to the needs of civilization. they survive the thoughts and actions of people, even if no one would admit to them in public. i don't want to touch anyone's conscience, but the scattered remains of the middle ages, if i may put it that simply, remain with us. if that were not the case, if our culture had the principles of equality under its skin, we wouldn't have to deal with this problem. in my report, i took the view that learning is a lifelong process. however, and i'm sure you'll agree, the defining period for qualification, personal growth and career is young age. in particular, it should be free from all forms of discrimination, the most onerous of which are economic restrictions affecting in particular the weaker sections of society. if we cannot yet eliminate the effects of economic disadvantage affecting boys and girls equally, we should at least mitigate them as effectively as possible, together with the forms of discrimination which are also addressed in this report. observations from different eu countries show that gender disadvantage factors are minimal at the beginning of the educational process. school attendance is compulsory and phenomena that harm children in their reception affect both sexes equally. i am thinking in particular of handicaps such as diagnosed disorders or the consequences of parental neglect, or even of children's misdiagnoses resulting in their exclusion from standard education systems. these are extremely serious matters. however, they only marginally report on discrimination against young women and girls in the education process. we know that girls and young women are just as talented and motivated to pursue higher and higher education as their male counterparts. the ratio of male to female students is fairly even. in some types of universities, girls are even predominant, again linked to societal stereotypes that some professions are typically male and others are typically female. these are often schemes that justify other forms of discrimination, such as lower pay in so-called women's occupations. it can be said that the gender disadvantage of girls and young women in particular comes at a time when they face the dilemma of whether to start a family and take care of children or to continue their studies and develop the professional aspects of life. while young men can, and even are expected to, continue to further their qualifications after graduation, a young woman must face this dilemma. the modern trend in both sexes is to postpone family life and the arrival of children. this is related to changes in lifestyle, but it is also the result of difficulty in reconciling family and career, especially when young children are to be cared for. the competition in the profession is immense and requires a hundred percent commitment. that's why women are statistically lagging behind men in this field. women are graduating from higher education and scientific institutions at a lower rate than men. there's a much smaller representation of women in leadership positions. this is the way gender discrimination in access to education manifests itself. but to some extent it also affects women who have attained a higher level of education and social function. they haven't won even though they've overcome all the limitations. because society still mechanically attributes professional success primarily to men, and women who move in this small, forbidden space are seen as intruders. despite all the challenges that a successful woman faces in the workplace, as well as in the home and family, i am optimistic about this phenomenon. and i think that over time, it's going to go away on its own. on the other hand, unless we find effective ways to help young women in particular to link education and further professional growth with motherhood and family, then discrimination against women in access to education will remain a problem with its consequences.
the news. thank you for your words, mr president. i think that there are many women who are very important in our european union and in europe in general, and we could name them. so it's not just the lady i respect very much, marie curie-skłodowska, who should be on the list. but i think this report addresses the issues that have been mentioned here. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what i was interested in in the report was the emphasis on the fact that women are significantly less likely to achieve academic degrees than men. only 15% of the full professors. and this is despite the fact that the number of women who have graduated from university is 59%, which is even higher than the number of men. the small proportion of women with high academic performance does not appear to be the result of discrimination against young women and girls in access to education. there are a number of other reasons for this low number. if we want to change the current state of affairs, it is essential to define, analyse and try to influence these causes and relationships. for example, the need to eliminate stereotypes in the inclusion of women in the personnel hierarchy. women are very welcome and appreciated as members of research teams. but they're less trusted in their ability to lead teams. but it is precisely this position that allows and conditions the formation of its own scientific school and contributes to the development of the given discipline, specialization, at the faculties of universities. to declare from time to time that we need to increase the number of women in academia is nice, it's nice, but it's not enough. the conditions of the process need to be defined in a serious way and work on optimising them so that women can be more involved. thank you, sir.
ladies and gentlemen, i fear that the trade war, codenamed "global warming", will soon take its toll. the european council is obviously going to accept their fashionable pseudo-scientific claims that we will save this planet by drastically reducing co2 emissions. if we are persuaded that we can influence the natural climate cycles of the planet by sacrificing the competitiveness of european industry, we are not doing our planet any favors. we're only serving the economic interests of those investors and countries that don't look at any oxides or protocols. their co2 production will replace the pollution we'll spare by our sacrifice. that is why i am concerned that the starting point of the european council's energy negotiations is the fight against climate change. i believe that citizens and businesses are more interested in energy prices and, above all, in the secure and continuous supply of energy. the council should therefore address the liberalisation of the energy market in such a way as to prevent massive price increases. the presidency should come up with a realistic proposal to ensure a smooth supply from russia to the whole of the european union, and not just to germany. finally, investment should be made in the development of new forms of energy, particularly nuclear energy. if we do not, the high cost of energy will put european companies' competitiveness on ice. and how will the unemployed cope with astronomical electricity bills? they can be sent to the council headquarters in brussels, but i fear with little success. thank you, sir.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the wine market has in recent years been facing surpluses which the current common market policy on wine is unable to address satisfactorily. for example, i see the promotion of wine distillation as an inefficient waste of limited resources. the reformed wine market today, on the other hand, does not motivate producers of poor quality table wine, which they are not interested in, to change production towards quality. therefore, reform of the wine market is necessary. the competitiveness of european wine production needs to be substantially strengthened. the report by mrs batzella gives us a lot of guidance in this respect and i personally find it very balanced. the key area we need to focus our attention on is budget reform. the aid must be proportionate to the existing area under vines and, where appropriate, to the value of the wine produced. it is also not possible to grant compensation for grubbing up vineyards planted in contravention of the acquis. export refunds for table wine are entirely non-systemic and do not contribute to the good name of european wines. ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember that if we are to promote the competitiveness of european products, it is not possible to persecute european producers. in the northernmost states, the geographical conditions are diametrically different from those in the south. the sweetening with beet sugar is an established tradition in these countries, similar to the addition of tartaric acid in southern countries. to ban it would mean the end of many good wine-making families in our lands, the interruption of tradition and, consequently, the solution of the problems of landscape creation. thank you for your attention.
thank you, mr. chairman. seven months ago, i expressed my hope that the final report of the temporary committee would be more balanced than its interim version. i have to say that, unfortunately, that was not the case. the report we are sending is a strong message to the european public and our allies, mixing fact with speculation, selectively treating the results of investigations, judging countries on whether they cooperated with the committee, not on what they actually did, making a whole host of accusations but hardly any evidence. understandably, the limited powers of our committee made it impossible to substantiate many of the allegations. the only ambition that could have succeeded in these circumstances was to propose a framework for an effective fight against terrorism without violating human rights and thus preventing the mistakes of the past from being repeated by proposing concrete measures. mr. president, ensuring the safety of our citizens is the fundamental mission of any government. unfortunately, the use of military or intelligence services in emergencies can sometimes be overused. and today we know that they happened after 9/11. it's very important to convict them. i think it is a great mistake on the part of our committee to deliberately try to give the impression, by its choice of words, that these excesses are a system and not a few isolated cases. and despite the fact that there's not a shred of evidence to support this hypothesis. some of my colleagues are defending the baseless accusation by claiming that it is a political report, not a legal document. let me remind you of the duty we have to our constituents and to this institution to provide balanced and objective information. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that by approving the report we would be undermining the credibility of the european parliament. thank you, sir.
ladies and gentlemen, let me address an argument that has been voiced by some on the right wing of this parliament. and that the claudio fava report is a sort of stick in the hand of the european left against the united states of america. i don't agree with that at all. the social and political order of the european states and of the united states of america is based on shared values such as fundamental human and civil rights, democracy and the rule of law. these democratic values also include the division and control of power by, inter alia, parliaments. the european parliament shall fulfil this role within the limits of its powers. the fight against terrorism is one of the greatest challenges of our time. we can only defeat this evil if we act together, in europe and in the us, and of course with the cooperation of the intelligence services. but this fight must be fought within the framework of our shared transatlantic democratic principles and values. if not, the terrorists will achieve their goal. they will succeed in dismantling our democratic institutions, both in europe and in the united states.
ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by wishing our rapporteur, luisa yañez-barnuev garcía, a very good and balanced report. i see the value of this report in its balance between the need for a firm, uncompromising approach and more effective international coordination in the fight against terrorism on the one hand, and the need to respect human and civil rights and the rule of law on the other. the report also takes into account the factors contributing to the radicalisation and recruitment of terrorists, both within and outside europe. factors such as extreme poverty, lack of access to education, social, economic, ethnic and religious discrimination, collective discontent, etc. i am convinced that the gradual elimination of these factors and causes is a very important prerequisite for a successful fight against terrorism. finally, i would also like to call on the council and the member states of the european union which have not yet signed or ratified the 16 un universal instruments on combating terrorism to do so as soon as possible. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr. chairman. ladies and gentlemen, in my view, the visa facilitation agreement with russia, despite all the above comments and reservations, is a step forward. it shows that even on complex issues, a compromise can be found between the european union and russia. moreover, let us answer the question: 'do we want to make it easier, faster and cheaper for at least students, scientists, business people or perhaps family members to get visas?' i think we do. yes, it is a selective approach, and we in the czech republic know it. for example, in relation to the european union. for example, we are forced to go through the schengen integration process in stages, and not without problems. however, as someone who has spent many years in russia, and as a member of the delegation for relations with russia, i have seen firsthand the complications of visas and therefore i say: 'simplifying at least part of visa relations is better than nothing'. thank you, sir.
in writing. the european union has repeatedly declared its readiness to develop and deepen its neighbourhood relations. one of the basic prerequisites for improving bilateral relations is to facilitate the legal movement of persons. in this respect, it should be noted that it was the russian federation that offered the european union the bilateral abolition of the visa requirement. despite the rejection of this generous offer, an agreement covering short-stay visas for citizens of the russian federation and the community, with the exception of citizens of the three eu countries, was reached after complex negotiations. to some extent, this is a model agreement, as negotiations for a similar treaty are currently under way with the balkan countries, ukraine, morocco and china. the agreement contains a number of positive elements: free visas for holders of diplomatic passports, multiple-entry visas, deadlines for issuing visas, a visa fee. of course, this agreement is far from visa-free, or from the quick and easy issuing of free visas. some comments made during the ep debate suggest that many meps also have a specific relationship to the material. it is trying to revive the dead body of the european constitutional treaty on the one hand and to interfere in russia's internal affairs through an agreement on the other. these efforts were largely rejected and not reflected in the visa agreement. we therefore support it and believe it is the first step towards visa-free travel with one of the eu's key partners.
in writing. the readmission agreement with russia is one of the key documents used by the european commission to regulate immigration. it's actually part of the debate about democracy, equal rights, minority rights, preserving cultural identity. the whole problem is not rooted in relations with russia or the commonwealth of independent states. the main problem for the eu countries is mass immigration from africa, turkey, the saarc countries, indochina and china, and latin america. the agreement with russia is intended to be a kind of model agreement, whereby the commission clarifies both the procedure within the european economic area and examines the extent to which it can interfere in the internal affairs of neighbouring countries. as russia is a large and strong partner on which the union depends to a certain extent, the agreement itself does not contain specific provisions on the subject of 'respect for the fundamental rights of data subjects'. only the questions raised in the explanatory statement of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs show an attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of russia through the readmission agreement. this trend is so disturbing that i can't support the deal. the security and humanitarian aspects of the agreement are at odds. the foreign affairs committee is strangely most concerned about 'the absence of a regulatory framework for the implementation of the agreement'. i welcome the request that the commission assist the russian authorities in implementing the agreement. on the contrary, the emergence of a vague concept of a third safe country is negative.
in writing. i agree that the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas and the readmission agreement between the european community and russia should contribute to strengthening mutual relations and to creating a so-called common european area based on shared values and common interests. it is worth recalling that russia was the first subject of the so-called common strategy presented at the european council in 1999. it was clearly documented back then that russia must be firmly anchored in europe and that it cannot be ousted or seen as just a threat or an inferior or problem partner. not only in view of this general fact, but also in the light of current events in europe and the world, i cannot agree with the thesis that emerged in the report on the readmission agreement, namely that eu-russia relations are at a critical stage and that the new partnership and cooperation agreement after 2007 depends on the perception of the human rights situation in russia. russia is not the great power that wages wars and massively violates human rights on all continents. and anyone who criticizes human rights violations anywhere, not just in russia, should first ensure that he himself strictly respects these rights. this is not the case, for example, with the so-called non-russian citizens living in the baltic states.
ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the year, the united states of america, two european union member states, poland and the czech republic, approached the united states of america with a request to deploy elements of american missile defense in europe. according to initial statements by representatives of these states, this is a purely bilateral matter between the united states on the one hand and poland and the czech republic on the other. the same sentiment was expressed last week by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, javier solana. i do not share that view, and i think the majority of this house does not share it. the us missile defense base on european soil is not just a matter for czechs and poles. this base has a much broader dimension. it's about the relationship between europe and the united states. it concerns the eu-nato relationship, the eu-russia relationship, and the eu-russia relations. there are also a number of disarmament treaties. and this also applies to the relations between the countries of the european union with each other. in other words, it's about the very essence of... (speaker was interrupted)
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate and thank mr howitt for his initiative and for his report, and i would also like to support the many good amendments that have been adopted in our committee on employment and social affairs. as it turns out, the main problem or the main question in our debate is whether regulation is necessary in this area or whether a voluntary approach would suffice. i'm not a fan of red tape and unnecessary regulation. but in an issue like corporate social responsibility, it's clear that relying on voluntary corporate action is simply not enough. otherwise, a part of the european population is placed in an unequal position. i believe, however, that we must have real legal instruments to make it possible for companies to fulfil their obligations, not only in the social field but also in the field of the protection of working conditions and health at work, and also in the field of environmental protection and protection. although i highly value the report, i have tabled two amendments with my group colleagues, the purpose or mission of which is rather to draw attention to the current situation and problems of workers, such as the relocation of businesses, low wages, precarious jobs, insufficient occupational health protection and also the contradiction of the policies proposed by the european commission in the field of social responsibility, which are often not in line with the objectives and principles that should govern corporate social responsibility. i hope that we will be able to produce not only a declaratory document but also practical instruments for its implementation. otherwise we would be acting in the spirit of the czech proverb that the wolf ate and the goat remained whole, and i think that citizens do not expect us to do that.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's action, which has resulted in a recommendation on the collective management of copyright and related rights across borders for legal online music services, is unfortunately another manifestation of an unacceptable but entirely unnecessary circumvention of the democratic decision-making process, given the role of the european parliament. as regards certain aspects of the report under discussion, which i consider to be a really good piece of work by the rapporteur and the other participants, i would like to draw attention to a few points in particular. in particular, the need to treat all rightholders equally and to maintain a system of agreements and the mutual collection of royalties combined with a higher degree of protection for rightholders. as regards competition and competition issues, attention should be paid in particular to the possible abuse of the monopoly position of collective management organisations in the future. as competition is increasingly discussed across the spectrum of intellectual property rights, it is necessary that such competition be regulated, controlled and fair. i draw attention to this because in recent years there has been a widespread application of the provisions on competition protection also to the field of intellectual property rights, in many cases giving priority to freedom of competition over the exercise of those rights.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, the european union and the united states of america together account for about 60% of world air transport, so if we are to make any progress in international air transport, it is essential that these two partners agree. the agreement must be balanced, acceptable to both parties and clearly specified in technical terms. these requirements logically include the same interpretation of the treaty by both contracting parties. the commission has also taken the view that the united states should be able to provide the union with a comprehensive and coherent legal framework for the implementation of the union's international obligations. it is therefore necessary to encourage further negotiations with a view to reaching an agreement for the european union as a whole with the most balanced outcome. despite all the progress made so far, it is still premature to talk about an integrated transatlantic air transport market. these considerations will guide our approach to the amendments. let us now look in more detail at the various aspects of the united states-european union relationship. currently, based on developments to date, there are a number of bilateral treaties between the individual states of the union and the united states, with different wording. this situation is unclear, and our efforts to achieve full compliance with union rules are illusory. the key issue here is the bargaining power of the partners. the result is necessarily a significantly stronger position of the united states and the associated undue advantages for overseas entities. the first of these is logically called cabotage. in the united states, interstate air transport is considered cabotage, whereas transport within the union has not been so defined in the treaties. we need to unite. similarly, typical safeguards in the united states that prevent foreign entities from controlling united states airlines must be discussed. the commissioner has made a good point. the requirement to control the infrastructure, i.e. the airport, is also problematic. here the stark contrast between the declared efforts for liberalization and the reality is even greater. in the context of intra-union air transport, the debate on the environmental impact of transport is very topical today. these are the taxation of fuels, the emissions balance, in particular carbon dioxide, noise and other parameters under discussion. if union carriers are to be involved in emissions trading following the kyoto protocol, then it is necessary to apply the same scheme to competitors, especially the largest one from the united states. let's face it, this is a precedent, a new international standard that will become the industry standard. as far as social conditions are concerned, then there are three basic classes of problems that arise. the first is the qualification requirements for personnel, the second is the standardisation of the working hours and shifts for aircraft personnel, and the third is the qualification requirement for ground staff providing pre-flight preparation of aircraft as well as check-in at the terminal. in particular, we have recently been confronted with so-called security risks, biometric data requirements, advance passenger lists and variously worded orders and prohibitions. in this context, the recently adopted directive on the status of disabled persons in air transport should also be kept in mind. some of the measures introduced at airports are almost in conflict with the human rights of the passengers. the handling of passengers' personal data is a typical case. i wonder, commissioner, how it relates to data protection in the schengen system, which is to be extended this year. other measures border on bullying, including repeated baggage checks at airport check-in desks. i am confident that these problems can also be resolved and look forward to working with the commission on this work.
commissioner, mr president, until the end of the 20th century, there were two schools of security. one considered the unhealthy consequences of high oil production for middle eastern stability to be the world's greatest threat, the other the environmental impacts and climate change. 9/11 and hurricane katrina have shown that the source of danger is the same, energy overload, excessive energy consumption. twenty percent renewable deployment is not going to be the total solution, the only solution to be able to address both threats, to reduce emissions and dependence on the instability of the middle east at the same time, is nuclear energy. take the greens, their now-obsolete argument about the dangers of nuclear power. we cannot allow them to use the situation in iran and elsewhere as a hostage to the threat of misuse of nuclear energy. we have the only npt tool at hand. the positive outcome of the 2010 conference is a key security measure. we consider the enrichment and reprocessing of uranium in relation to article 4 to be key issues, including the debate on regional distribution centres for nuclear fuel. the second point is the need to find a solution to the unauthorised derogation from article 10 of the treaty. we therefore ask you, the council and the commission, to take part as leaders in the preparatory committee in vienna and to make a significant contribution to a positive outcome at the 2010 conference. we also ask you to report on the implementation of the 43 measures of the council's common position, which already referred to the unfortunate negotiation of the treaty in 2005. at the same time, we are clearly asking member states to strictly comply with the hard-line unsc resolutions on the npt, including banking and business operations of some southern european states. commissioner, allow me one last sip of this. we need to start looking for a way to invite israel to the npt review negotiations. please consult and cooperate with us.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. in general, we all agree that the steps to improve aviation safety are beneficial. for example, it can be accepted that the european civil aviation safety agency can contribute to ensuring the free movement of aeronautical products, transport services and personnel by the fact that the various licences, authorisations and other documents issued by this institution or by national authorities on the basis of uniform rules will be automatically accepted in other member states. i therefore want to give my full appreciation to the proposal for a regulation and the rapporteur's work, based on my own experience as a pilot for many years. however, ladies and gentlemen, it happens that even well-intentioned actions can be controversial or even negative in some sense for some of the actors involved. for example, the introduction of the european agency's competence in relation to the category of aircraft up to 600 kg will not significantly improve aviation safety, but will, for example, cause disproportionate costs and delays in administrative procedures in the czech republic. the production of these ultra-light aircraft is a chance for our export-oriented smes to compete in challenging global markets, including the us. however, unfortunately, since the annex to the regulation does not exclude products from the scope of the regulation in this particular sector of aeronautical technology, unlike in many other cases, the document will have far-reaching consequences for the competitiveness of manufacturers in this sector. there will be discrimination in the market, which is certainly not the aim of the new rules and regulations adopted by our parliament. i also see the issue of fines as controversial. it would be better, in my judgment, to stick to the established practice of not granting or withdrawing the corresponding licence. fines are not standard measures and there could be a danger of their being abused in an attempt to increase the income of the beneficiary of the funds collected. and one more aspect: some of the proposed points in the document interfere with the sovereignty of the member states without being related to the criteria of air safety. we should therefore perhaps be more careful to consider the full impact of our actions on all citizens and entities in the member states of the european union in the interest of the general struggle for greater security. thank you. thank you.
i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr leichtfried, for his good cooperation. ladies and gentlemen, whenever a new agency is to be created or its powers extended as a result of a regulation, we should ask ourselves whether the number of people and the powers correspond to the requirements which the creation of such an organisation has raised. the common rules on civil aviation are undoubtedly an important norm. the problem, as with the previous regulation, is the delimitation of civil aviation to the areas covered by these rules. here, the united states and the european union rules still conflict, among others, in the definition of the ultralight category boundary. it is hoped that the negotiators of the european union and the united states will come to this question at some later stage of the negotiations and that the result will subsequently be incorporated into the amendment of this new arrangement in force in the european union. as far as the agency is concerned, the proposed staff and budget for coordinating and monitoring tasks seems to me to be somewhat disproportionate, with little regard for the national testing bodies. i trust that this matter will be considered and adjusted by the council. the proposals strengthen the position of easa. i don't always support them for practical reasons. i don't particularly see the benefit of testing the ultralights in the central testing room. i would also like to comment on amendment no 5 by name. i do not understand why the commission proposal limits a small aircraft with a take-off weight of 5.7 tonnes to a maximum of 9 passenger seats. this proposal is in contradiction with the development of a small aircraft in the cesar programme, which was approved by the commission more than a year ago on the basis of the third call of the 6th framework programme for science and research. the amendment provides for 19 passenger seats in line with the cesar proposal. the amendments to the original wording of the certificates required for aircraft personnel, not just pilots, are more precise and i therefore support them. unfortunately, there is no clear exclusion of ultralight aircraft from easa's remit. this is all aircraft up to 600 kg, as mr remek mentioned. it is appropriate that the accepted inspection and test procedures be applied to this category of aircraft, with verification continuing to be carried out by the national test organisation.
ladies and gentlemen, the solution to global warming is inextricably linked not only to the use of renewable energy, but also to the way we treat traditional energy. i am personally pleased that the eu summit has finally moved the static waters around the union's views on nuclear energy. the german presidency, which is turning around the nuclear power plant like a hot potato, is characterised by a contradictory approach to nuclear energy, and which knows that it will probably have to wet the energy-hungry tongue of its economy in the end, but does not want to burn itself out over the green spices. but more seriously. i see that shift in the fact that the summit participants finally admitted that member states can count on the use of nuclear energy in the interests of energy security and also emission reduction. i believe that the energy mix should not only be balanced but also democratically open to all available resources, with the utmost care, of course, to maintain the highest level of security.
mr president, it is a good sign for europe that the european council has adopted an action plan for energy for the period 2007-09. it has thus taken the first concrete step towards establishing a common european energy policy - albeit half-hearted. while recognising that europe is a long way from a competitive and interconnected internal energy market, the summit did not support the full ownership unbundling of energy companies as a necessary tool to achieve it. the unrestricted integration of energy leads to the emergence of large-scale economic complexes which have not only a great economic weight but also extraordinary political power in each country. this enables them to influence political developments effectively, not only at national level but also, as we have recently seen, at european level. the energy sector is thus much less competitive and therefore much less efficient than it could be. a no less dangerous consequence of this situation is the security risk. for the new member states of central and eastern europe in particular, the penetration of russian state-controlled ownership into these powerful giant companies would be not only an economic but above all a political disaster. the unbundling of energy companies' assets and transparent pan-european market rules for all, accompanied by a common approach by european countries to external energy policy, would improve the functioning of the energy market, make internal policies in individual eu member states more transparent and significantly reduce foreign policy and security risks not only for individual member states but also for the union as a whole.
mr president, it seems that a line has been omitted from paragraph e of annex ii by mistake during the transcription. it's part seven. i quote, 600 kg for ultralight aircraft for non-commercial use.
let me, as a shadow rapporteur, wish our rapporteur, doris pack, a very good and, in my opinion, a quality report. it is an objective and balanced document which seeks to make further progress in political and social reforms in bosnia and herzegovina and, of course, in the country's approach to the european union. the report notes the shift that has taken place in many areas, but also points out the many problems that need to be addressed, even before the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement. one of these problems, as already mentioned, is constitutional reform. i am convinced that the european union should offer bosnia and herzegovina a helping hand in this context, mainly through its special envoy, both in terms of strengthening the political dialogue between the various actors and in terms of technical assistance and expertise. as already mentioned, the adoption of the implementation of the police reform is another condition for the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreements. what i consider very important is that the report also takes account of and emphasises various aspects of education and schooling. because, as the postwar experience in europe shows, it is often precisely an educational system based on the values of human rights, civil rights, equality, tolerance, democracy, that leads to the gradual overcoming of mutual religious, national or ethnic animosities and also to gradual reconciliation. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that despite the many and difficult problems that bosnia and herzegovina is still going through, the future of this country lies in european integration. and let me conclude here, as a citizen of a country that has only recently become a member of the european union, by giving some advice to our friends in bosnia and herzegovina. it is the cooperation of all political forces, regardless of ethnic, political or religious affiliation, that is the precondition for the successful achievement of this objective. and i would like to wish both the bosnians and the croats and the serbs the very best of luck on this difficult journey.
mr president, we have been informed recently that neither the czech government nor the czech president are aware of the content of the berlin declaration. the purpose of the secrecy was perhaps to sneak a statement at the end of the sentence obliging the states to adopt a mini-constitution, but not to call it a constitution, so that citizens could not decide on it in referendums. the sentence was to be presented to the surprise heads of state at the last moment. this unworthy procedure does not correspond to the democratic presidency of the eu, but rather to the procedure of the party cryptocracy, which we remember intimately from the eastern component of today's germany, that is, from the gdr. finally, there was a blank sentence recommending that the eu be built on a new foundation, the interpretation of which we will have to debate for two years. in the czech republic, we have a clear interpretation: 'let's return the union to the original core values that were not fulfilled. let's eliminate the democratic deficit, ensure the free movement of labour and services. reform agricultural policies that discriminate against new countries. and let's stop trying to breed endless wagons of regulation and let life have its freedom and its nature. thank you, mr. chairman.
equal opportunities for men and women is an important part of the european union's strategy. not all member states have regular public information on the importance of gender equality. the project partnership created under the equal programme took the initiative of celebrating the gender equality day. in several european union countries, june 19 is already celebrated as equality day. the aim is to create respect for gender equality, to portray partnerships between men and women in a positive light, to raise awareness in society and to inform about the relevance of the issue. gender equality day is also targeted at men, because men can also be discriminated against or disadvantaged. international women's day recognizes the long-standing efforts of women activists to advance women's rights and strengthen the political, economic and social position of women. gender equality day seeks to extend the concept of equal opportunities to both sexes. june 19 is close to father's day in the calendar, which allows us to highlight the common interest in fathers' participation in childcare and family life. i therefore believe that this year's year of equal opportunities for all is the most appropriate date for the establishment of a european union day for equality between women and men.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, football is probably the most popular sport in europe and the football environment and those around it have a considerable influence on the younger generation. the influence is spontaneous and uninhibited, so it's stronger. it is therefore important that football is not seen as an environment where huge amounts of money are made, where laws are broken and violence is committed, and where the professional top of the pyramid is detached from the amateur base. and yet, i would venture to say, the amateur base is more socially beneficial than the exclusive environment of professional sports, where business has largely eclipsed the original joy of the game. i join the rapporteur, mr belet, in calling on the european union to ensure that the ways and customs of professional sport do not influence school and adult football, that children are not sold their talents and performances as little gladiators. this harms the child's right to an open and all-round development of personality and lays the foundation for education in the principles of a ruthless adult world. at the same time, it reduces the interest of football clubs in the education of their own youth, which limits the mass participation of children in popular sports and strengthens the selection process, which makes a small percentage of talent the product of the sports market, while leaving the vast majority of children on the sidelines. but top-level football is not just about the players and the spectators. it is a world in which children and young people in particular find their role models. therefore, care must be taken to ensure that football stadiums are not the scene of aggressive behaviour, that xenophobia and racism disappear from football, and that the business of football is no longer associated, rightly or wrongly, with corruption.
ladies and gentlemen, i am the delegate for the czech republic, which is considering the placement of u.s. missile defense radars on its territory. i would like to stress that in this context i very much welcome javier solana's recent statement that the decision to participate in the us missile system must be taken by the individual states themselves. i believe that in today's world, there is no alternative to the us defense system. the events in yugoslavia have clearly demonstrated that the european union was unable to prevent the killing, either politically or militarily. in addition, there is the historical experience of the last century, in which my country was just thrown to the nazis by a number of european states. all of this gives both the czech republic and poland a legitimate right to decide on their own defense. i would therefore ask our neighbours who, in the light of the radars, threaten to divide europe, to remember who divided europe in the past and how. and for those who want to talk to us, i challenge president chirac to remember to keep quiet. thank you, sir.
ladies and gentlemen, i believe that nothing is so divisive in the political scene in the czech republic at the moment as the question of the location of the american military base. there are two graph lines. first, there is the obvious willingness of the government to accept the base and, second, the public's unwillingness to accept it. according to the latest polls, 60% of the respondents are against the base, 25% are for it. the second fault line is the division of the parliamentary parties, with the opposition on the left being for the referendum and against the base, the government right being against the referendum and for the base. i mention this because it is essential that the european union also expresses a clear position on this problem. to wash our hands of the fact that this is a bilateral matter between the czech republic or poland and the united states is to avoid a problem that will start to grow into a pan-european dimension tomorrow. the union must be able to say unpleasant things. we're told he's in talks with russia. but so far, all indications are that the talks are just a cover-up for the fact that a global missile defense system is being built. mr. solana also acted before he was given the order to bomb yugoslavia. negotiations were going on before the iraq war. experience has shown that negotiations are useless if there is no willingness to compromise. there is a founding act between russia and nato in 1997 that rules out the threat of force, and we must not forget that.
thank you, mr. chairman. i listened with interest to mr solana's extensive presentation, for which i thank him, he has chosen interesting topics, strong topics. let me make a few comments. first, mr solana stressed that, with regard to kosovo, the european union must not fail in its neighbourhood. i wholeheartedly agree with this, and i translate it this way: in other words, the european union must first prove that it can solve the problems of its immediate neighbourhood, that it can contribute to the stability and prosperity of the immediate neighbourhood, and when it has done this in practice, it can then pursue a wider ambition, a global ambition, otherwise it will remain a mere matter of words. second, to the missile defense or, in the case of the czech republic, the radar base of the united states. the government of the czech republic yesterday approved that it will officially begin negotiations with the united states to build this radar base as a defense system. the czech government will certainly be willing to inform its colleagues and partners in the european union about the ongoing process, but the final decision will be made by the czech government, without any doubt, within its own competence. i am convinced that if this base is implemented, then the security of not only the central european region, but the european union as a whole will increase. we all know that this base is not directed against russia, and russia knows that. so to argue here in this way is a proxy argument, and i believe that the implementation of this measure will also strengthen the atlantic bond. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the czech republic and poland are able to compete in the world market. i would remind my colleagues that the european union has its limits, both security and political, and that it has just hit one of those limits. thank you, sir.
ladies and gentlemen, javier solana said this morning that citizens are interested in the eu's foreign and security policy being coordinated. i agree with that statement completely. yes, european citizens, including those of the new member states, expect the eu to coordinate its foreign and security policy, including on issues such as the us missile defence system in the european union. the system is not a bilateral matter between the united states and poland or the czech republic, as some members here believe, but it concerns the very essence of the common foreign and security policy, the relations between european states within the european union, the relations between the eu and the us, nato and russia, and the various disarmament and non-proliferation processes. i would therefore like to invite javier solana to present to this parliament an analysis of all these aspects and ways of dealing with this issue from the point of view of the common foreign and security policy. i am convinced that this is what citizens expect from the high representative for the common foreign and security policy.
mr president, we know what the iranian revolutionary guards do: they are responsible for the amia bombing in argentina, the khobar towers bombing, shehab iii and the capture of 15 uk servicemen in return for the arrest of five pasdaran in erbil. hizbollah’s international leader, imad mughniyah, is iranian. a missile defence system is all about threat assessment and priorities. the threat is here. we have to protect and strengthen europe. south-western europe needs protection against terrorism. south-eastern europe needs active layered-theatre ballistic missile defence. within nato, we have to build national missile defence systems, but we have to accommodate the third pillar. as for northern europe, the czech republic, poland and the us east coast, we can achieve complex missile defence architecture through sharing data and information in nato command and control. you know it. it is doable. sharing information costs less than eur 1 billion. to do it, we need bilateral consultations and nato consultations, but sovereign state decisions. most of all we need responsibility: my responsibility and your responsibility.
thank you, mr. chairman. i voted against mr beleta's report, together with the members of the civic democratic party, because i consider it to be a somewhat premature step towards a debate on the possibility of harmonising the complex field of professional mining in the member states. the report promises to address the so-called european model of the coalfield. but there's hardly any such model. professional kicking is undoubtedly a highly globalized phenomenon today. and trying to regulate it in some way from the perspective of the european union is, i think, a not very successful effort. the european parliament is still no world authority capable of solving global problems. i fully agree with the parts of the report that deal with the collision of professional mining with our administrative and economic rules. however, i cannot agree with the parts of the report which propose the introduction of regulations on matters which are not within the competence of the european union. this concerns in particular the proposal to set up specifically targeted inspection bodies. thank you for your attention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as regards the report on the proposal for a directive on criminal measures for the enforcement of intellectual property rights, i am one of the members who disagrees in principle with the content of this report. i have three very important reasons for this. the first reason is that the legal basis for that directive cannot be considered to be clearly defined. it is well known that the court of justice's expected opinion, which should clarify the court's judgment of 13 september 2005, is still lacking. the second major problem is that the report does not include patents and utility models in the definition of intellectual property for the purposes of the directive, which are an integral part of intellectual property rights and without which the directive would otherwise lack the systematic approach to the matter so necessary. the third reason is closely linked to the previous one. the directive on criminal law aspects should, however, complement the existing directive 2004/48/ec on the enforcement of intellectual property rights, which governs the civil and administrative fields. the directive covers the whole range of intellectual property rights, including patents and designs. the reasons for the proposal to exclude technical solutions from criminal law protection are subject to considerable debate. but i fear that pressure from powerful interest groups has unfortunately also played a part. thank you for your attention.
ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the implications of future enlargement of the union for the effectiveness of cohesion policy. the report discusses the enlargement of the union to the east and calculates how the present members will contribute to it, with the structure of the institutions unchanged and the amount of money paid to the common budget unchanged. there won't be enough money to help the new countries, and there won't be anything left for the rich regions. there is no point in discussing the individual gdp decline rates in which countries, at which time of the envisaged enlargement. the problem is elsewhere, and i believe it is in what the union is offering. if we go only in the direction of the poor balkans, then the enlargement tax is high and it will be up to the citizens of the 27 to decide whether or not to pay it in solidarity. personally, i think they should. the enlargement of the union is not only a financial matter, but, and i want to stress this, it is also a political matter. i think we should also ask ourselves why they don't want to share the union's values and policies with us from a country that doesn't need the union as a source of development aid? why not norway, switzerland or iceland, for example? i fear the reason is the all-embracing solidarity of the union, the bolshevik agricultural policy and zero pressure on competitiveness. i am convinced that unilateral enlargement will not strengthen the european union in its economic and global political significance. it is only strengthened by a fundamental shift from the current politics of excessive solidarity, from paternalism, from regulation, to a politics of healthy free competition. thank you, sir.
madam president, i would like to congratulate our colleagues who were rapporteurs and allow me to make a few comments on the general and specific points, based on my own experience. first, to point 1, where we note that not all agencies have a good reputation. i would like to defend the european agency for safety and health at work in bilbao, which is certainly an exception and not covered by this text. as rapporteur, i have worked with the agency on the evaluation of the framework directive on health at work, and currently on the development of new standards for the statistics on accidents at work. i have visited the agency twice in person and i can confirm that it gives us very good data. as regards point 11, where we call for improvements in the technical support of the agencies, i want to say one thing. it is not just about technical support, it is also about improving our tasks, which we are directing from parliament to the various agencies, and here our activity as parliament must be substantially higher. finally, this also applies to point 15 on cooperation with other organisations, where i can say that the agency in bilbao is working closely with the world health organisation and is producing very interesting statistics. lastly, i very much support paragraph 25 and i can also say that i am pleased that the agency has improved its communication methods and that its expertise is being used more by smes in particular. thank you, sir.
the reporter. thank you, madam president. the third maritime package is a set of draft directives designed to improve maritime safety. the basic idea of the whole package is to strengthen the flag state's responsibility. this responsibility is already given by international maritime law, including the obligation to carry out technical investigations after any serious maritime incident. similarly, without the existence of this package, there is already a general obligation to cooperate with the other participating states. the investigation, or rather the non-investigation, that we have witnessed following the prestige tanker accident has shown, and the conclusions of the work of the mare ad hoc committee have confirmed, that there is a need to work on more precise guidelines that will allow in the event of an emergency to conduct an investigation, publish the findings in real time and use these findings to eliminate the possibility of a recurrence of the event. the whole package is designed to prevent any kind of emergency by means of technical measures. prevention is therefore the basic idea. the technical investigation of an emergency is therefore to be the consequence of a situation where all preventive measures have failed. the conclusions of the investigation are to be used in such a way that a similar situation cannot occur again. and that's why we need to investigate why it happened. the directive covers accidents involving vessels defined in article 2, i.e. fishing vessels under 24 m, merchant vessels with more than 12 passengers. as other parts of the third package contain similar definitions of the scope, i do not recommend, after discussions with commission representatives and experts, and despite having originally recommended a similar extension, an extension to all fishing vessels under 24 m in length under amendment no 25. the logical limit here is 15 meters, as in the previous report. the commission proposal, supplemented and clarified by the amendments adopted by the committee and published in the official journal under no 2 24 is a good technical directive. the proposal here presented, in accordance with the solas and marpol conventions and article 2 of the unclos convention, is to determine who will investigate the emergency, to specify the decision mechanism and the time limit within which a decision will be taken. the establishment of a genuinely independent standing committee of inquiry is still a major problem for some countries of the union. the commission operates in the nordic countries, but in the mediterranean there is a problem with the formal independence of such a body. only spain has so far declared that it will set up a similar commission in the near future. another question is whether it is possible for an independent commission of inquiry to work under the authority of another state. i was asked about this and i answer that there is nothing formally to prevent it, and it is even enshrined in article 7 (2) of the proposed directive. this possibility was questioned by, for example, slovenia or similar small states. the essential requirement of this directive is to carry out a technical investigation, only the conclusions of which may be made available for other investigations. equally important is the requirement to apply the international maritime organisation (imo) guidelines for the fair treatment of seafarers after a maritime accident. we know what it was like in spain, how the ship's crew was treated, and how bad the whole investigation looked. imo guidelines and instructions are certainly not intended to criminalise the captain and crew. in addition, during the course of the investigation, member states have the task of protecting witnesses against the misuse of statements or other information provided by them for the purposes of criminal investigations. the commission will inform the european parliament every three years of the results of the application and of the measures taken under this directive, thus fulfilling the supervisory role of the elected body, namely the european parliament, and the european parliament may, if necessary, adopt corresponding measures on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the technical part of the directive, i.e. annexes i and ii, contains the format and content of the safety investigation report, in the form of a minimum outline of the report annex i and a list of the data to be included in the report annex ii for each accident. i believe that this data will provide a good basis for evaluating the directive and that the technical measures taken on the basis of the aggregated data will help to minimise the occurrence of emergencies. the content of this directive is very similar to the emergency investigation in industrial enterprises, where i have had the honour of practising for many years, and i think it is well-structured technically. i hope that the scheme contained in the directive will be able to be used in the future for other shipping accidents, for example for smaller ships in maritime transport and in the investigation of river transport accidents. thank you for your attention.
for the group gue/ngl mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to commend the rapporteur's work and thank her for her cooperation as shadow rapporteur. personally, i consider one of the most important benefits of the agreement to be the fact that the single european standards will be extended to another, in this case also complex, region in the balkans. as a professional aviation pilot, i know how important international cooperation is in the field of aviation and how much we need at least some common rules. by adopting this document, we will create a further prerequisite for the extension of the single european sky beyond the countries of the european union. this is undoubtedly a contribution to safety, it is also an opportunity to positively influence the quality of services for passengers, there are other opportunities for business in europe, which i believe are also important implications of the envisaged agreement. moreover, i believe that this is an example of a project that helps to spread the european idea in practice. more such concrete agreements, which are not just an attempt to bureaucratically manage the life of european countries, but which have, in principle, general support, would certainly increase the prestige of the european union. the european airspace is open to all states wishing to integrate into the european airspace family, on clear and generally acceptable terms.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work. the document presented is complex and it was certainly not easy to seek and find compromises, as the debate has shown. however, i think that the report is solid and as shadow rapporteur i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for their good cooperation. i think that it is possible to support the report in principle, but there are still about four issues in it which i have a problem with, even after consulting with a number of experts, and i will comment on them in more detail. in particular, the above-mentioned issue of financing of civil aviation security measures. i consider it problematic to address this funding within the framework of this regulation. for example, in road and rail transport, similar issues are covered by the relevant directives. in the case of civil aviation, we do not have the appropriate legal act here and we propose another way. another contentious aspect of the report is the proposal on the transparency of security expenditure in air fares. this is a difficult adjustment to implement because the airlines selling tickets do not have the necessary overview of the cost of airport security. the one who knows the cost includes it in the airport charges. the use of the phrase 'protecting civil aviation safety' is also problematic. this formulation concerns mainly the protection of civil aviation against terrorism, which is important but nevertheless only part of the package of measures to protect against unlawful acts. i believe that in this context there can be misinterpretations and the narrowing of the problems to terrorism. the number of civil aviation offences may be much higher. i would like to recall the controversial points in the report, which i do not wish to downgrade the overall quality of the work done and of the document as such, and i would like to conclude by referring to amendments nos 4 and 45. i am afraid that there is a rather significant strengthening of the commission's position here, which i do not think is necessary at this stage. i am aware that the comments are somewhat more detailed, but this is due to the fact that the proposal is largely a technical regulation and aims to establish the basic parameters of standards in the field of civil aviation safety. i have therefore tried not only to include them in the amendments, but as a former pilot i have felt it necessary to comment on the whole document presented within the space allocated.
mr president, i fully support the economic partnership agreement between the union and the united states. common standards and norms for industry and finance will not only make business easier, but also save billions of dollars and euros. i consider the abolition of visas for members of the european union to be a natural part of such an agreement. but transatlantic relations cannot be reduced to visas and trade. we must overcome our differences on how to deal with the situation in iraq and work together to secure energy sources that do not pollute the planet and that ensure sustainable development. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the time for the rivalry between the european union and the united states is over. wearing boxing gloves in a ring based on the shared values of freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law does not bring any added value to the citizens of the union. i think it's much more necessary to have a joint response to the challenges that india and china are starting to beat us in economic and political development. these great powers are based on different environmental and social values than we honor. the european union and the united states have social systems built on the past. we face the difficult task of re-engineering them in a way that is sustainable in the long term, without reducing the competitiveness of our common cultural model and the living standards of our citizens. that is why, in my view, the greatest challenge for transatlantic relations is to defend the position of the leading culture of the planet. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr. chairman. the current developments in iraq demonstrate the profound truth of the american thinker santayana, who says that those who do not learn from the past are doomed to live it again. back then, when the invasion of iraq took place, some countries refused to participate in this adventure. like france, germany, belgium, for example. secretary of defense rumsfeld at the time divided europe into old and new, and he basically gave a grade, a negative grade, to countries like france or germany. in fact, the countries that supported the invasion of iraq were the countries of old europe. countries that have basically engaged in a tradition of colonial warfare and power arrogance. i believe that the new europe is born of the idea of tolerance, dialogue and mutual understanding between civilizations, without giving up what made our continent great. i think that if the european union is the voice of reason and human dignity in the world today, we can hope that after the new presidential elections in the united states, the united states will join this voice of reason and human dignity.
mr. chairman, colleague, colleague, czech firefighters, throughout their history, two concepts have clashed in american foreign policy. the lighthouse concept and the cruiser concept. the monroe doctrine of 1823, roosevelt in 1904, the right to intervene and intervene in the caribbean (haiti, panama, dominican republic, cuba, guatemala), these are eloquent proofs of a doctrine a century old and now renewed. since the nato memorial summit in washington, bombing serbia, it's become clear that the united states can do without the security council and without nato. along with economic globalization, there was also the globalization of military intervention. the bush administration is going back a hundred years. that has to change. it is therefore appropriate to remind the united states that: public international law does not belong in the wastebasket, torture as a tool does not lead to credible results, democracy cannot and must not be exported on the nail. transatlantic relations, yes, but as equals, without the servility typical of some of the new member states.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to change the order of voting. as regards recital 11, it would be preferable to vote first on amendment no 26, because it is broader than amendment no 1.
parliament decided on harmonisation for products, gene and cell therapies and tissue engineering. central registration will unify the market, reduce costs, increase european competitiveness, improve the prospects for treating serious diseases. that's where the benefit comes in. but i fundamentally disagree with the fact that you, colleagues, today refused to set the boundaries of safe human genome experiments. the european liberals, socialists and the far left have disregarded the expert opinion of the three committees and rejected our package of amendments banning chimera products, i.e. the transplantation of human dna into animal embryos. it also opened up the space for the modification of human embryos and the trade in human bodies. i'm asking, what are the criteria for registration in london? how can the objective of market unification be achieved when in some of the old member states animal cloning and other experiments that threaten the development of mankind are not criminal offences? unfortunately, some countries have not yet ratified the convention on human rights and biomedicine. my no on the final vote is a statement of common sense that says it is a grossly irresponsible and hasty step.
let me explain my no to the directive on the criminalisation of intellectual property infringement. it was a good idea in the beginning, and i wholeheartedly support sanctions for counterfeiting and piracy. unfortunately, the resulting form of the directive will not help much against asian counterfeits. on the contrary, the contradictory paragraphs leave room for its abuse in the fight against competition instead of protecting innovative entrepreneurs. even european entrepreneurs may face unfair criminal charges in the future, perhaps even from asian counterfeiters. the union should focus on enforcing intellectual property rights beyond its borders, not on criminalising its own citizens and businesses. i criticise the fact that for the first time in history the union is intervening in the criminal law of the member states in the form of a directive. i do not agree that the union should impose criminal liability on legal persons in countries which, like the czech republic, do not have such a legal system. i do not agree that ordinary citizens, journalists, scientists, ordinary consumers and the like could be punished on the basis of so-called 'derived criminal liability'. in conclusion, i would like to ask for my first vote on articles 43 and 44 to be corrected. i was for, the red light was wrong.
ladies and gentlemen, i follow up on the letter from the mps asking the palestinian authority and other organisations to engage immediately in the unconditional release of the bbc journalist. we now urge the commission and the council to do the same, even at the cost of imposing sanctions if diplomatic negotiations fail. the kidnappers who have held this journalist for 46 days, but also president abbas, must know that they are holding all of palestine back on its path to development and dragging it into isolation. i stress that the release of alan johnston is crucial to the safety of all journalists working in the middle east. i want to take this floor to express my deep appreciation for johnston's three years of work in gaza and to commend the heroism of all his colleagues and their families in providing independent conflict coverage for the world. they are an important hope for local people facing brutal violence that could not be condemned and punished without independent reporting. europe must do everything possible to ensure the safety of journalists in this area.
ladies and gentlemen, in addition to its undoubted success in helping the less developed regions of the union countries, structural policy also has some shortcomings. experience shows that taxpayers' money is not always spent effectively, national development strategies do not always have synergistic effects, operational programmes of individual countries are not always well thought out, and do not always succeed in strengthening competitiveness, increasing employment and thus contributing to sustainable development. i believe that one of the tools to improve this situation is the so-called open days in brussels, the european week of regions and cities organised annually by the european commission and the committee of the regions. this october marks the fifth anniversary of this mega event. i would just like to remind you that thousands of regional representatives and officials, hundreds of speakers and journalists, dozens of seminars and countless cocktails and receptions will be held in brussels. the organisers themselves say that in addition to the workshops and events in brussels, a series of open days events will take place across the european union, ostensibly geared towards citizens, in order to convey the week's message to the regions and cities themselves. i consider the whole action to be very controversial and i have serious doubts that it is an effective use of citizens' money to improve regional policy. analysis of previous open days clearly shows that only about half of the participants meet expectations, and nowhere has it been disclosed how much a weekly mega party costs. i did not expect commissioner hübner to give a direct answer to the question of how many regional meetings taxpayers attend. if we do not clearly state how much marketing and public relations of structural policies cost and compare the quality of the impacts with the price of the action, we will face the legitimate criticism from citizens that the open days in brussels are nothing more than a luxury trip to the capital of the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on housing which we are debating today is the result of the efforts of the rapporteur, whom i would like to thank, and of the entire committee on regional development, which has dealt with it in depth and in detail. since the text of the report may still be substantially amended as a result of the amendments tabled, its final evaluation should be deferred until the outcome of the vote. a basic assessment can be carried out now. from the outset, it was clear that this was a politically sensitive and potentially explosive issue, with the central question of whether or not housing should be addressed at european level. i am of the opinion that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the union should speak as little as possible on housing issues and only where its action can add value to that of the member states. this applies in particular to support for the renovation of panel houses or the construction of housing for socially vulnerable groups such as the elderly, the physically disabled or young families with children. i therefore regard the report as a useful document which can provide new and needed impetus. however, in no case should action at union level replace regulation by the member states, and i fear that is what the report is aiming at, for example by calling for the adoption of a system of indicators of housing quality at union level. the european union, and in particular the european parliament, should not, however, assume more rights than those conferred on it by the treaties. the member states are the guarantors of the right to housing and should remain so, despite the fact that the original mandate was to address housing issues in the context of regional development rather than in the context of social responsibility. in this context, i would like to refer to the call to strengthen the right to housing in the social dimension of the lisbon strategy, which in my view does not belong in the report. the lisbon strategy does not talk about housing, and we should stick to that. as the shadow rapporteur of the ppe-de, i appreciate that the key amendments were discussed across the political groups and that there was a willingness to correct the original positions. if the final form of the report is in line with the agreement of the key factions, i will consider it an acceptable outcome.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a subject which affects each of us. affordable, adequate, quality housing is becoming an increasingly important phenomenon, expressing the individual needs, options and opinions of each of us. the report by mr andriessen on housing in the context of regional policy is therefore certainly useful. before deciding on further european community activities in this area, however, it must be remembered that the european union and its institutions do not have direct competence in the field of housing policy. however, strengthening social and economic cohesion, formulated as one of the main objectives of the maastricht treaty and implemented by the union's regional policy, is strongly linked to responding to the need for sufficient affordable housing, tackling homelessness, or revitalizing urban areas and brownfields. one of the important issues to be discussed is therefore where the boundaries of the european union's competence and responsibility in the field of housing policy lie and what subsidiarity means in this context. we should also consider where we are putting our energies. in my opinion, we have two options. either we go down the road of promoting the european civil right to housing, which will always be very vague in view of the different situations in the individual states, regions and municipalities and our limited competence, in which case we risk raising expectations among citizens that we will not be able to meet and thus lose credibility, or we go down the road of supporting municipalities, cities and regions in solving housing problems by making housing support and the revitalization of settlements one of the main priorities, providing local governments with the appropriate conditions and resources under the structural funds and not restricting them too much in deciding how to solve housing problems on their territory. citizens will then feel the benefits of the european union firsthand. i personally believe we should go the other way.
i would like to appreciate that most members distanced themselves from the part of the resolution on the union-russia summit in which the left tried to manipulate the european public into thinking that the placement of the us missile defense umbrella in poland and the czech republic would open the way to new arms races. it's a false argument of left-wing politics, for two reasons. on the one hand, it is a supplement to the defense system, which is supposed to deter attacks from the east, from those regimes that threaten peace, and on the other hand, as far as the factories are concerned, russia has increased military spending since putin's accession in absolute terms and in terms of gdp, those four percent are thirty percent more than the countries of the european union spend on armaments. the resulting resolution is a great political signal for the upcoming summit with russia that we condemn the aggressive policy towards both chechnya and estonia, poland and other countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of citizens of the european union has been increasingly restricted in recent times. this is the case at border crossings between the czech republic and austria. it has become a tradition for some austrian activists to organize blockades of border crossings, and it seems that they do so with at least the tacit support of some austrian authorities. the actions are meant to be a protest against the temelín nuclear power plant, which is in the czech republic. in my view, blocking traffic by such coercive measures is contrary to european law and does not contribute to good relations between the two member states. i respect the fact that some austrian citizens are against nuclear energy, but that does not in any way entitle them to promote their views by restricting the freedom of others. some austrian politicians are aware of the unacceptability of the blockade of border crossings and are distancing themselves from these actions. but that's not enough. the right to free movement must be safeguarded and guaranteed. the european union should, in my view, promote the development of nuclear energy.
ladies and gentlemen, the member states must respect the views of the esd and the commission must incorporate them into the social security regulation. it's about the right of citizens to reimbursement for health care abroad. however, for outpatient examinations, patients do not need to ask their insurance company for prior approval. the commission and the member states will not avoid agreeing on what constitutes non-acute hospital care for which the patient must request this prior consent. last year, parliament succumbed to false arguments and, under pressure from the left, trade unions and some governments, excluded healthcare from the services directive. it has led to the fact that this right is still not regulated by law, since regulation 1408 of 1977 has not been updated either. the claim that mobility would lead to a deterioration in care is nonsense. that's why i'm advocating for increased trust in foreign health care, it's about the patient's right to information about the quality of the facilities. we call on the commission and the member states to coordinate healthcare quality management systems without the union interfering with state competences. the key is patient safety programs and national or international accreditation of hospitals and clinics. having information about which hospital abroad adheres to voluntary international or national standards gives patients greater confidence that they will be treated safely, even if they do not speak a foreign language. this is the most important thing for confidence in european healthcare and to refute the purposeful arguments against patient mobility. i know that my proposal to remove barriers to the provision of non-public health services abroad has become a political issue. i wish doctors and nurses a lot of courage to face the obstacles that are put in their way by politicians who underestimate the right of citizens to a wider range of health services and are afraid of their choices.
ladies and gentlemen, the european constitution was supposed to strengthen the union's potential as a global player in the world, but what happened? a confusing document was created, and the approval of it by social engineers was completely out of hand. citizens of both countries said no. the result is an unjust document that has for many years diverted the attention of politicians from the real problems, brought unnecessary disputes into the union and confirmed the words that the union is small. not geographically, but by the intellectual dimension of their leaders, who cannot accept the failure of a project and propose to the citizens a different project. heads of state are walking around with hot sauce instead of saying to the world: in rome three years ago we signed a text that the citizens rejected. it's a dead end and we have to go another way. the future of europe as a global player is not threatened by the non-adoption of the current constitution. it is threatened by the politicians' disconnection from real life and the useless discussion of the dead text. citizens in the member states are increasingly unable to understand the language of the european institutions and their representatives. and global partners benefit from the eu's disunity and the self-centeredness of their leaders. i am convinced that the european union needs institutional reform and a new unifying document that clearly defines the competences of the union and the individual states. a treaty that is concise, clear, fair and therefore acceptable to the citizens, and above all a treaty that is not just an amended or truncated version of the constitution rejected. i believe that pension, tax, health, social, cultural, judicial and nuclear policies should remain in the hands of the individual states. as for the other policies, they must necessarily be discussed. many of us have experienced failure in life and in politics, and now the promoters of the european constitution have. they should overcome their vanity and admit defeat. and they should start negotiating a whole new contract as soon as possible. i expect that kind of realism from the june summit and the german and portuguese presidencies. only in this way will we strengthen confidence in the european project, both in the eyes of the citizens of the union and in the global economy and politics.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would ask you to allow me to make only a few brief remarks at this point, since i have an appointment with your committee on foreign affairs at 6 p.m. to review and assess the last meeting of the general affairs and external relations council. i can understand everything you have described, partly from personal travels and conversations. but i would also like to point out that it was the european union, and in particular the previous and the present presidency, which took the first steps to revive the quartet and to set a process in motion. the saudi initiative was also born out of this process. i would ask you to differentiate here that certain things are not due solely to the lack of financial resources. it is also an internal palestinian conflict. of course we have - i made this clear in the presidency statement - made it clear in talks with israel that funds owed to the palestinians - customs duties, taxes - must be returned to ensure that various infrastructure measures can be implemented. the commissioner has on several occasions - also in the council - pointed out the way in which the european union's support has been channelled in recent months. the public may occasionally have the impression that we pay nothing or only insufficiently. the opposite is true: during the very critical period as the european union we transferred more funds than we had done in any other situation. mr davis, we do not want the palestinians to be treated as saints because they expect everything. but one thing was clear - and this is what the mecca conference achieved when it was called upon to establish a government of national unity - namely that the preconditions which the middle east quartet has always demanded would be met: the right of israel to exist, the renunciation of violence, but also the observance of previous agreements of the previous government. there are certain moves, but unfortunately it is not yet clear whether the regulation is committed to this. there is no reason for us to "wall" at all. the government of national unity could take this step and the conditions could be created. it is not that we treat this as a marginal issue. at each meeting, the council discusses how to move forward. i have made it clear that the presidency is trying to arrange another meeting of the quartet in the near future, because we know how much depends on it. the high commissioner, who is many miles north in beirut, knows that this is not just about israel and palestine, but also about the question of the security and the right of self-determination of lebanon. i would like to call for us not just to stop talking, but to try to launch initiatives so that a dialogue between israel and the palestinians can take place, but also to provide financial support and so that we - i have just read this again - can advocate with israel that the freedom of movement of the palestinians is enabled and not restricted as it is currently. no one can be satisfied with this state of affairs. i ask your indulgence for having to leave your debate at this point.
madam chair, madam commissioner, thank you for staying with us today. unlike many of the members, i've been to palestine more than once. israel, as you all want, has left gaza. he handed it over to a freely elected, democratically elected government. gaza is a territory destroyed by extremism, fundamentalism, terrorism, corruption and the cynicism of the palestinian war leaders themselves. dear members, are we so naive to think that throwing in another hundred million euros without clear criteria will stop jund al-islam or dahlan from further violence? do we really think that legalizing warlords and terrorists like mashal or dahlan will bring peace to the region? fortunately, we have the council and the commission, and i thank them for their firm and clear position. thank you for standing on the side of the law in a difficult situation. we must reject violence and pay tribute to the victims in gaza and the west bank. we must clearly reject the idea that hamas, represented in the palestinian government, should make israel a hostage to its own terrible extremist interests. i warn against the clearly proven collaboration of hamas, including members of the government, and new al-qaeda organizations like fatah al-islam or jund al-islam. we demand that the palestinian government not only recognize the exchanges of letters between rabin and arafat, but stop lying about meeting the key condition for recognizing israel. we call on the palestinian government and all arab leaders, especially the saudis and the egyptians, to undertake immediately, with all political and human responsibility, peace negotiations for the proper recognition of the state of israel within the proper international borders. we call on fatah to immediately begin negotiations with hamas on the distribution of forces in the plo. only then, on the side of the law with a clear starting point, will we be able to provide not only humanitarian aid but, above all, to support the creation of a viable and democratic palestinian state.
violence and unrest in the palestinian territories continue. worldwide agencies report casualty and death figures every day. despite repeated declarations of a ceasefire between fatah and hamas, armed conflicts between these factions continue. the shelling of siderot from gaza continues, as do the israeli retaliatory attacks. palestinian doctors and teachers are on strike, and palestinian police and other public service workers are not being paid. as has been said here many times, poverty is growing rapidly. more than 80% of the palestinians in the gaza strip live on less than $2 a day. and what i'm saying is that palestine and israel need our help, because they're not going to get out of this spiral of violence on their own. i am one of those members who are calling for a greater and wider involvement of the european union. i would therefore again urge the commission to examine all the means available to mobilise faster and more effective international assistance. i fear that if this does not happen, the likelihood of the total collapse of the palestinian authority and the outbreak of full-scale civil war with far-reaching consequences not only for the palestinians, but also for israel and the entire middle east, is increasing. there was also talk of lebanon.
ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the 21st century, the european states are facing a whole range of new challenges. we have globalization, international terrorism, arms control and disarmament, nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction, uncontrolled migration, energy dependence and security of energy supply, climate change, the prevention of global poverty and many more. these are all problems and issues that concern every european country, regardless of its size and, of course, regardless of its geographical location. and these are all challenges, problems and issues that no european state, even the largest, is capable of addressing and solving on its own. that is why we need a common foreign and security policy, and not only that, we also need to strengthen it, at least to the extent proposed by the constitutional treaty. among other things, we need to create a post of european minister for foreign affairs. this minister should be both the commissioner and the president of the foreign affairs council so that the union can finally speak with one voice. we need to create a genuine european external action service, strengthen structural cooperation, we need an aid clause and many other things that the draft eu constitution treaty contains. and, very importantly, the constitutional process should be completed by 2008. i think this is important not only in terms of further enlargement, for example with croatia, but also, as has already been said, for the overall efficiency of the common foreign and security and defence policy. i fear that without this efficiency, europe will fall into the role of not only a political but also, gradually, an economic dwarf.
commissioner, mr. chairman, good afternoon. madam reporter, some people are praising you tonight. i, in addition to praising you for your report, would like to say that it has given me great pleasure. i am glad that you have done so because your report reflects at least four points i would like to stress here. firstly, your report is based on the fact that crossborder trade with the free movement of goods is a fundamental principle of european integration. the customer makes a decision on the basis of price, i.e. whether the goods are less taxed. if some member states are taxing their goods too heavily, then they must respond to this in their domestic tax policies, rather than waiting for the rescue to come from the european union. secondly, and i think this is one of the key points of your report, tax competition is fair and healthy. the creation of a so-called single market with no tax borders is only a special, new, modern protectionism. thirdly, and this has been said many times here, each member state has the right to pursue its own independent tax policy. taxes and the management of tax revenues are the essence of political competition. you know, madam rapporteur, i represent the czech republic and its interests in this house, and as the czech republic is a well-known producer and exporter of beer, i would like to stress as a final note that there is no single reason why the czech brewery and the czech consumer should be harmed by the harmonisation of excise duties.
i would like to make clear in five points why i support this hard-won compromise. first, if some critics say that this is not a market-conform solution, they forget that the fundamental problem arises when the market itself is not market-conform. then the market correction must take place, as it did in this case. i think the commissioner made it very clear that there have been attempts to remedy this before. the second point is that finally there will be alignment in this area with the principles of the european union, with the principles on which our european union is founded. thirdly, it is very important that at least some equality of access to information is achieved in the market. it is this degree of equality in access to information that, as nobel prize winner joseph stiglitz has shown, is one of the conditions for a smoothly functioning market. fourthly, although the possibility of equal access to information was significantly enhanced, the freedom of choice was preserved. this is very important for us to have a competitive relationship. and finally, fifthly, it is not a zero-sum game, as some have thought, but rather a win-win approach, as my colleague mr chichester has emphasized. and by the way, i'm pleased to find that in the person of congressman farage, we have a specialist in the workings of former state planning commissions. it is interesting to note that parliament is also concerned with historical issues.
ladies and gentlemen, the seven-year war between the european parliament and european operators is over. as members of parliament we could no longer ignore the usurious prices that are up to five times higher than the costs, which restrict communication within the internal market. we could no longer just marvel at the high price differences for international calls between the north and south of europe and just criticize the lack of transparency. the operators were unable to prove their overcharging and the national regulators here told us they had no leverage for cross-border calls. that is why we must act today at union level. regulation is the necessary impulse where the market has failed. it's limited to three years until the market moves. the price of eur 49,24 is at the level of the average of the three largest operators' prices and gives people the opportunity to choose between the additional offers that the market will bring. we also give citizens the right to switch freely to other operators and back. the most important thing is the obligation to inform customers about the price in time. just yesterday, the operators had already expanded their websites and finally published their prices. opponents of the regulation argue that there is no longer any reason to intervene in the market, as packages with lower roaming prices are already on the market. however, they forget that the tenders were only made after the commission published the regulation, i.e. the ice moved under the threat of regulation, not as a consequence of market mechanisms. we can debate whether the retail price of voice services should have been regulated. i think so, because the customer is driven by the final price and only his choice moves the market. we'll also be tracking when and how the ice is moving for data services that are not regulated. i call on the socialists not to block the adoption of this regulation in the council so that it can be in force before the summer. i hope the liberal foreign minister will give in to the lobbyists' pressure. on behalf of the czech people, i thank the negotiating team, my colleague mr rübig, mrs niebler and others from the epp-ed group and the commission for their successful work in the interests of the eu citizens.
i voted against the proposal on roaming calls for the following reasons. first of all, it is not an economic measure, but a political measure. it is an expression of protectionism and modern european mercantilism. second, it completely contradicts the relationship between supply and demand. thirdly, while i do not expect mobile operators to compensate for the loss by increasing prices on the domestic market, it is likely that they will reduce investment in their development and the downward dynamics of domestic prices will almost certainly be reduced. the most important message for the european union is that investors are losing confidence that the regulator will not interfere with their business during the game.
in writing. the elmar brok report shows the common security and foreign policy of the eu in all its ugliness. on the one hand, it calls for greater eu involvement in the conflicts in the caucasus and transnistria, thus opposing the creation and international recognition of states in these areas, and on the other hand, it seeks the repeal of the unfulfilled resolution 1244 and the declaration of 'controlled independence for kosovo'. the author, together with ms a. beer, mep for the verts/ale group, is thus reopening the pandora's box of territorial change in europe. i wonder when the demand for the separation of catalonia and the basque country (possibly also galicia) from spain will be heard in full, when the autonomists in slovakia, romania, serbia will speak. what do we do with the demand for the partition of macedonia (or still fyrom)? will the comparatively compact muslim population of some areas in southern france follow suit? or are you more likely to think of immigrants concentrated in the big cities of western europe? equally counterproductive is the concern expressed in article 25 regarding china's first anti-satellite weapons tests. we don't have that concern in the united states. unfortunately, there are so many unacceptable parts of this report that neither i nor my group in this house can support it in the final vote.
mr. prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, we hear many noble and less noble thoughts on the future of europe. we certainly need to renew the contractual framework, especially in the interests of greater accessibility. but we should also be clear about what we are offering the citizens of the union today. in this context, i must say that many people here, for example, are not interested in the debate on the usefulness of a common foreign minister, but are more concerned that, like people from other so-called new member countries of the union, they are not moving even after three years in the schengen area. it is surprising that in a europe of equal rights, they still cannot enter the labour market in some countries, when capital flows freely to and from us. why do large countries have more favourable conditions for certain sectors than new and smaller countries? why can't we go to the us without a visa like everyone else? we want to strengthen european competence where it is not necessary and where it is logical for different interests, we maintain differences in the strength of the players on the european stage. it is not surprising that many europeans often fail to understand our profound discussions on the future of europe.
last month, i was an observer at the european parliament elections in nigeria, and i saw many interesting, often contradictory, and sometimes shocking phenomena. on one side, you see nigerian voters marching, often in inhuman conditions, for miles to the polls. but on the other hand, you see the nigerian election officials doing everything they can to prevent these people from going to the polls. on the one hand, you see voters enthusiastically casting their ballots in the hope of a better, fairer, and more decent life, but on the other hand, you also see election officials rigging votes to prevent political and economic change. ladies and gentlemen, i think there is no doubt as to which side the european union, this parliament, is on. it's on the side of law, democracy, free and fair elections. on the side of millions of nigerians who believe in democratic elections, in the idea that democracy is the foundation and the key to solving political, economic and social problems. nigeria had a historic opportunity last month to show itself, to africa and to the rest of the world, that it was capable of this task, that it was capable of making a democratic and peaceful transition from one government to another, but unfortunately, it missed this historic opportunity.
chairman of the committee on legal affairs. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that no unrealistic goals are being proposed here, in the sense of catching up and outstripping the rest of the world. we must be realistic in europe in ensuring that our science, research and development do not lose contact with the rest of the world. i doubt that there is any royal road to technological and innovation activity that politicians would be able to initiate. my lifelong experience with various political programs in this area is rather skeptical. the european union has had a recent and not exactly positive experience in this area, in the form of the so-called lisbon strategy. the responsibility of us politicians should be first and foremost to define a reasonable and stable legal framework and, of course, maximum financial support for research and technological innovation. science and technological development require us above all to have transparent relations, sufficient freedom to apply innovative activities and to prioritise rather than reserve funding. i am glad that the report contains calls to increase the prestige of research and development. indeed, influencing the value system of citizens is supposed to be one of the main competences of politics. in particular, we have repeatedly discussed in the legal committee the regulatory and legislative aspects of the european innovation environment. in the field of intellectual property protection, the european union is bound by relevant international agreements and should be able to harmonise its economic and cultural space. we see traditional weaknesses in patent policy. despite repeated attempts, no significant improvement has been achieved. we have to repeatedly and regrettably acknowledge that the patent environment of the european union is heterogeneous and confusing. our scientists and inventors, our technology centers, still have to spend substantially more on patents than is the norm elsewhere. i think this report is preciously non-confrontational, because we all undoubtedly recognise the importance of innovation for the future of the european union.
i consider today's recommendation by the european parliament to the council on the development of a strategic concept to combat organised crime to be one of the most important and good news for european citizens. it is proof that the union is fulfilling its key role in an area which by its nature requires the closest international cooperation. and it's working really well. but even that is not enough today. terrorism and other forms of organized crime are not only unlimited, but they are literally taking advantage of our democratic system. and so we have to think very hard about which values are more valuable in which situations -- fighting crime or total freedom. it is time to let go of the glorious freedom of unlimited freedom in situations where it is itself an obstacle to the preservation of the most precious of all human lives. it is indeed time to change the approach and remove some internal obstacles, including those protecting illegally acquired economic and financial resources. the council will have to give greater independence and powers to europol and eurojust. this is a new strategic task, this is our responsibility to the half a billion citizens of the union.
president hugo chávez has banned the renewal of the license of radio caracas televisión. tens of thousands of venezuelans have taken to the streets to oppose independent broadcasting and expect support from a democratic europe. they know if they lose free broadcasting, they're gonna have a cuban trip. they know that they too, like the cubans, without independent information, will soon become prisoners within their own country, because they will lose the ability to decide their own affairs democratically. chávez plans to silence the media and suppress the opposition, who warn that nationalization and autocracy will not bring development to the country, but food rations for the poor on the one hand and the communist oligarchy unlimited power and luxury on the other. venezuela, cuba, bolivia - this is a dangerous alliance of autocratic regimes spreading anti-democratic ideology in latin america and the caribbean. europe will not be silent. we insist on respecting venezuela's international human rights obligations and maintaining a level playing field for independent media.
madam chairman, we have a report of an attempt to resuscitate a dead man. the dead one is the constitution, which the french people killed and the dutch people gladly buried. the problem is that the eurocratic elites are not going to take this simple fact into account. so a process has been initiated to finally remove the complicating element, the people in the member states, from decision-making. the principle was expressed in a secret questionnaire sent by the german presidency to the governments of the member states. one point in it forcefully asked: 'what if we adopted a document with the same content and legal binding force as the constitution under a different name?' it's the most brutal thing i've ever heard. and to make it sound less crude, we're going to mix in a little bit of climate alarmism and offer some very resistant people a candy-price energy solidarity so they can wave some sort of victory charge back home. let's just get the small countries to lose their veto power and get a new majority for the big countries and call it something we don't have to have a referendum on. the authors of the report like to forget that germany has not yet ratified the constitution because it is ratified by the president's signature. they therefore tend to forget that only 16 of the 27 countries have ratified the constitution, representing only 37% of the eu population. they like to forget that the two-year time limit for ratification by at least 80% of countries has passed so that the process can continue. and they like to forget that this fact has also removed the constitution from the jurisdiction of those countries to which it was imposed as part of the accession agreements.
ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place under the german presidency, and i would therefore like to thank our german friends first of all for the tremendous effort they have made to get the european council to commit itself at its meeting in june to convening an intergovernmental conference and to defining a work plan with the clear aim of reaching an agreement by the end of this year. the european union, after its historic and successful enlargement to 27, needs a new treaty base. the union needs instruments to enable it to function effectively and democratically, it needs the means to address citizens' demands on issues such as globalisation, illegal migration, security of energy supply and so on. these instruments and means are largely contained in the draft constitutional treaty, which has been ratified by two thirds of the member states and four more have confirmed their commitment to uphold the fundamental principles and content of this document. this clear majority, this balance of power, should be the basis for further negotiations, so that the outcome of these negotiations does not in any way lead to a reduction in the protection of human rights, a reduction in democracy or an inefficiency in the functioning of the union. in conclusion, i would like to call on the governments of the three states, including the government of my own country, the czech republic, which have not yet ratified the constitution, to abide by what they have signed and to submit this document to the citizens for approval. and if they are afraid of their own citizens, then at least they should stop throwing sticks at those who are trying to find a constructive, quick and democratic solution.
high representative for cfsp. mr president, i should very briefly like to reply to the contributions from the honourable members representing the different political groups in this house. i think that most of the speeches followed a line which is in a sense the same one that we have been defending for a long time: namely, the time has come to move on from the policy of crisis management – which is very important, but it is not enough. we need policies, together with crisis management, to solving the conflict. we need to work towards a political horizon to really begin to get into the business of solving the conflict that started 40 years ago. that is basically the view everybody has expressed, and it is something that we will be trying to do in the coming days. i told you that last wednesday the quartet met in berlin, and i said that for the first time the quartet is committed to starting a debate with the parties in order to begin to work towards a political horizon. this means that, before the end of this month, the quartet will meet with the palestinians and israelis in order to push forward the dialogue – which is still in its preliminary stages – that has begun between president abbas and prime minister olmert. they are the two people who must find the way towards peace. it is our obligation to push and to provide a catalyst for this process. that is what we are going to do. it is written very clearly in the statement produced by the quartet last wednesday. i think that this is a profound change, and i would like to underline that, because someone asked whether we are going wait passively for a catastrophe to arrive. the answer is no: we do not want to do that; you do not want to do that; the people in the region do not want to do that. therefore, under the leadership of the quartet, we are trying to put forward this mechanism in order to move towards peace. a few other ideas were put forward by some of the honourable members representing the political groups, including the suggestion of an international force. i would like to say that, for the first time in many years, the idea of an international force is not out of the question. as you know, the idea was brought up in the knesset by two members of the parliamentary groups, saying that this may be the time to call for an international force, at least at the beginning, in a peacekeeping role or to control the border in the south – the so-called ‘philadelphi corridor’ – where the rafah crossing is situated. we are working on that, as you probably know, because information has already been published. the israelis are also considering that possibility, as are the palestinians. the egyptians are also considering that possibility with different intensity. for the egyptians it would probably be very difficult to have an international force there, as it may give the impression that they are not able to control that part of the border. however, i think that we can still begin discussions on these issues and perhaps eventually reach a solution. this also ties in with what mrs napoletano said about the success of unifil. the fact that the international force has been responsible for unifil – i.e. for the application of the un security council resolution on lebanon – and the manner in which it has been perceived – i.e. the efficiency of the force, of which the backbone is european – have also caused some in the israeli government, the knesset and israel as a whole to think that it might be possible for a force of that nature also to be applied elsewhere. in a way, we have to link all the issues together. it may be possible for us to use what we have learned from our presence in lebanon in another place. that opens the way to a monitoring presence which will be absolutely necessary if we want the peace process to come to fruition. i would like to stress again that, as regards lebanon, the resolution creating the tribunal is very important. the tribunal is not against anybody. there has been a very negative reaction in syria, but i must stress that an international tribunal is not against anybody, any country. it is a tribunal that is organised in order to see who is responsible for the killing of a good man – a friend of many of ours, mr hariri – who was assassinated in a manner that has to be clarified if we want peace and reconciliation in lebanon. therefore we in the european union have been working towards this, and last wednesday the security council came to another important decision on setting up an international tribunal. i would like to say once again that what we have striven to do in taking the quartet in the direction that we are now moving is something that has many fathers – or many mothers – as always, but you can be sure that the europeans have been working very hard from the very beginning to arrive at this moment. let us hope that we are able to continue working in that direction. it will be difficult, but for the future i hope to have the support, help and understanding of the european parliament, as always. (applause)
mr president, i would like to begin with some quotes. on 2 april, prime minister haniyeh said on al-jazeera: ‘as far as we are concerned, the issue of recognition of israel has been settled once and for all. it has been settled in our political literature, in our islamic thought and in our jihadist culture, on which we base our moves. we will declare a truce, but never recognition of israel’. on al-jazeera on 27 april, he said: ‘if the siege continues beyond a certain time, we will be forced to make a decision and there is no doubt that we will act’. on 5 may, in a prayer, he said: ‘i reiterate, on behalf of the palestinian government, that the security plan will not hurt the resistance. we will give allah the opportunity to grant us one of the two mercies, victory or martyrdom’. as a fluent speaker of arabic, i can assure you that the translation is correct. the situation is grave. we face not only the ‘iraqisation’ of gaza but the ‘iranisation’ of the whole middle east. this is not just a threat to the middle east. this is a serious threat to our own security. europe must be a player and we must be absolutely unified. therefore parliament should remain unified, supporting the council, the commission and the quartet. the temporary international mechanism must go on. we have to continue humanitarian aid. we may even use the plo account. however, the key issue is to bring the palestinian national unity government to renounce violence, to recognise israel and to honour international agreements. only then can we return to un resolution 242, clearly asking israel to withdraw from territories, so that there are no ‘deterritories’ or occupied territories. i therefore ask the council and the commission whether they consider that the preconditions for the recognition and direct financing of the palestinian national unity government have been met.
ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from day-to-day experience that the european union is not in crisis because of the failure to adopt the constitution. expert studies say that there has been no slowdown in the functioning of the union since enlargement in 2004. on the contrary, the legislative process has even been accelerated. so let's not talk about the rate of adoption, but the quality of the document. the new treaty must ensure a fair treatment of individual members, regardless of the size of the state or the length of membership. it shall not detract from the position or the decision-making and voting weight of any person. the democratic legitimacy of the union must be derived from a balance between the principle of equal representation of citizens and the principle of equal representation of the state. decision-making and legislative processes must be transparent and verifiable by member states' governments and parliaments. the principle of subsidiarity must be strengthened and not diluted, as is often the case here. the document should not contain a charter of fundamental rights, but the union should accede to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of rome 1950. only then will a uniform european standard of human rights and freedoms be ensured.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the report by mrs maría isabel salinas garcía on the reform of the fruit and vegetable market. the european commission argues that reform is needed in this sector. yes, i agree with that. but what the commission has proposed is not reform. we need to abolish unnecessary regulation of this entire sector, we need to abolish export subsidies altogether and we need to abolish quotas altogether. but that is not what the commission is proposing. instead, it proposes cosmetic minor adjustments that preserve the regulatory nature of the whole policy. neither i nor the other members of the ods of the czech republic want this to happen, and that is why we voted against this report.
in writing. as for the report on the social status of artists, however much i may vote for its adoption, i regard it as only one of the steps towards solving the problem, a step which has unfortunately not been taken and which deserves further elaboration and differentiation. the report, in my opinion, implicitly emphasizes the so-called performing artists and rather leaves out such an important artistic sphere as literary creation - the sphere of the essentially creative. in the context of the present report, writers appear to be mere amateurs, since their work is, as a rule, hardly classified as 'professional artistic activity'. as for the conditions in the czech republic, for example, i know of only one writer who can "afford" to be a professional artist. moreover, it can be clearly and convincingly proven that the artistic organization, which unites left-leaning czech writers, the union of czech writers, has been deliberately silenced and segregated by the czech ministry of culture for years, which only illustrates the overall sad state of support for literary creation. the report also lacks a definition of 'european artist', although this term appears several times in the report. does that include writers? if so, i don't think they can be held to the same standards as so-called performance artists.
ladies and gentlemen, not only in the year of equal opportunities for all, but we should always remember that there are people living among us who are severely disabled. despite this disadvantage, they are actively involved in the life of the community. despite much that has been done for them within the european union, some problems persist. one of these is the recognition of disabled people's cards or the marking of their cars, which are issued by national associations. for example, in the czech republic, their owners can park for free, without paying motorway tickets and motorway fees. unfortunately, the divergent interpretation of the validity of these documents in some member states of the european union means that disabled drivers face problems in their recognition, for example in slovakia, but also in austria, germany and elsewhere. i therefore call on the competent institutions and bodies of the european union and the european parliament to address these problems and to achieve uniformity in the interpretation and use of the designation of cars for disabled drivers throughout the european union and to harmonise the rules on the rights and obligations of these severely disabled citizens. the sooner the better.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. quality broadband internet access is certainly one of the areas that the european union should focus on and promote. without fast and permanent connectivity, we will certainly not succeed in creating a competitive and dynamic european knowledge-based economy. the promotion of free access to the internet through the construction of free networks supported by structural and other public funds should therefore be given the green light by us. but i am sure we can all agree that the towns and cities are closest to the citizens. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to promote the provision of broadband services to end-users, but to provide them with access to the internet. in practice, however, local authorities often encounter a problem of conflict between effective promotion of free internet access through the construction of free networks supported by the structural and other funds on the one hand and public aid rules on the other. for example, when a city decides to promote free wi-fi as part of its service to citizens, it is immediately attacked by commercial internet service providers as a violation of competition. it is therefore necessary for the european commission to analyse in detail the rules for the use of the structural funds and the rural development funds to support broadband development and to subsequently adopt more precise guidelines to address situations where broadband services are developed with the help of structural and public funds in areas where these services are already partially provided.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank my colleague, the rapporteur, horst schnellhardt, for the great effort he has put into the preparation of this report, and i think that despite the initial difficulties he has managed to find a balance and a compromise both from the point of view of technology and between the various national interests. i would like to mention two points in particular, the first is the definition of vodka. i have already said in my speeches to the committee on the environment that we should not be subject to the pressure that has undoubtedly been exerted and is being exerted by the so-called traditional producers. i am convinced that the argument which is often used that just as whiskey or rum have their own precise definition of the raw materials from which they can be made, vodka needs that definition is not entirely justified. it must be taken into account that the technology for producing vodka is quite different. i conclude that the current definition of vodka is satisfactory and sufficient. despite the situation that has arisen, and with respect for the views of traditional producers, i regard the compromise definition proposed by the rapporteur under no 145 as a starting point and, as shadow rapporteur, i would recommend that at least some of our members from the group support it. i cannot fail to mention the national specificity that concerns the czech republic, and that is the definition of plum. mr. schnellhardt knows that a technical error has caused the environmental committee... (the president withdrew)
ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss the report on the labelling of spirit drinks, we should not only take account of the technical aspects and the need to ensure the transparency of the european market, but we should also bear in mind that the production and consumption of spirit drinks are often linked to local traditions and customs. therefore, european legislation should in no way restrict or even prohibit such traditions and customs. in my country, the czech republic, plum is a traditional drink. the preservation of traditional production methods is guaranteed in the accession treaties of the czech republic to the eu and should therefore not be unduly questioned, even by the environment committee of the european parliament. i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote tomorrow in favour of amendment no 144 and to correct the error which has crept into the report we are discussing. you will not only be supporting czech and moravian traditions, but also this excellent european drink.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the debate on the draft regulation on the labelling of spirit drinks, i would like to draw attention to a problem which remains in the shadow of the vodka controversy but which is of particular importance for the citizens of the czech republic in economic, political and cultural terms. it is a plum, a traditional moravian alcoholic drink made from fruit, most often plums. this plum tree was endangered when the environment committee very unfortunately interfered with its definition, which was even enshrined in the accession treaty of the czech republic. i don't believe it was intentional, i believe it was a mistake and an unfortunate display of congressional creativity. and since mistakes are to be corrected, i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendment on plum which i have worked on with rapporteur horst schnellhardt and which virtually all the political groups have voted to support. i also want to thank my colleague mr schnellhardt for his helpfulness and his willingness to find a solution which would restore the definition of plumage to a form which corresponds to its tradition. just as the scandinavians are watching developments around vodka closely, it is a priority for the czech public that slivka can continue to have the form of pure fruit brandy and that its characteristic flavour is not deformed by the addition of various additives. lastly, there is an indispensable political dimension arising from the fact that the definition of the plum tree became part of the accession negotiations and was enshrined in the accession treaty. breaking the accession treaty would undoubtedly lead to a breach of trust between the institutions of the european union and the member state concerned, not to mention setting a dangerous precedent that could otherwise affect other member states. since the fate of the plum tree is not indifferent to our citizens, it should not be indifferent to us european legislators. so we're taking the necessary step to save the plum tree by passing the amendment.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report notes that eu-russia relations are at a difficult and critical stage, but it also acknowledges that cooperation between the two sides is of vital importance to both the union and moscow. and i think there's a way out of this. the eu should in principle return to a substantive discussion not only on energy but also on other issues of economic relations with russia, without the biases and psychological burdens that prevail, especially in a number of new member countries. russia is now economically stronger, thanks to oil prices, and therefore more aggressive in defending its interests, which is understandable. it's important to note that russia is already living in election time. many of the actions outside do so with regard to the effects inside the country. however, even this does not relieve russia of the need to throw a certain amount of arrogance into the deal. and if both sides understand a number of other circumstances, like the growing economic power and energy needs of china or india, then there's hope that we can really work together. otherwise, the union will lose both russia.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union and russia are mutually dependent. we share the european continent together, without mutual agreement we cannot solve any major world problem, and without mutual cooperation we cannot even manage trade and the economy. i am one of those members who believe that the establishment of a common economic area, the creation of an open and integrated market between the eu and russia, is in the interest of both parties. both parties also have an interest in russia's accession to the wto. the european union should be open to investment from russia, but russia should also guarantee equal access rights for european companies, including those in the natural resources sector. if this is successful, i am convinced that not only economic prosperity but also stability in all areas of mutual interest and relations between the eu and russia will be strengthened.
ladies and gentlemen, the ban on the trade in cat and dog fur in the eu is important for several reasons. the first is the absolutely unacceptable so-called cat industry in asia, which supplies europe with the skins of an estimated 2 million cats a year. it's appalling that skins are being pulled alive. it's the cheapest and scariest way. i know that the european union regulation cannot change the behaviour of industrial farmers in third countries, but it can reduce the volume of animals traded considerably. the second reason is that european consumers do not know that they are buying these products. if they knew, they wouldn't buy them. cats and dogs are considered pets in europe. what most europeans do not know is that cat and dog fur can optically replace not only the more expensive fur of other animals but also artificial fur. these products are not properly labelled. it is not, therefore, merely an ethical problem, as the opponents of the regulation claim, but above all a question of misleading consumers, whether intentionally or not. and the union has a mandate to prevent that. however, it is necessary that customs officers in the member states use effective analyses to verify safely and inexpensively that imported products do not contain cat or dog skin. the key reason for adopting this regulation is the fragmentation of the market. almost half of the member states have legislation regulating or banning the trade in cat and dog fur, but the others do not. and this disharmonious regulation of the european market is exploited by shrewd traders who transport dog and cat fur products to those countries of the european union where they are already banned. this regulation will therefore significantly improve the enforceability of that right. parliament amends the commission text to make the only exception the use of hides for non-commercial purposes. we do not want to see the criminalisation of citizens. i appeal to all of you who say that the union has no competence to intervene in this matter. it's not like that! article 95 empowers the eu to act on this matter, because our common interest is the proper functioning of the european market for legal commodities! i thank the commission and i appreciate the work of my fellow rapporteurs.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate the report by mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou, who has a very knowledgeable way of dealing with the question of reconciling the study and family life of young women and has suggested solutions. frankly, finding solutions where centuries-old stereotypes are at work presents the greatest difficulty. the rapporteur shows that women with higher education are more successful in the labour markets than those with lower levels of education. but it also points out that the journey to education is limiting these women in motherhood. this often leads to women who, desiring education and employment, postpone the birth of their children or limit the number of children to one. it would seem that family is opposed to both a professional career and lifelong learning. that work and education on the one hand and family on the other are actually opposites. success and education, whether for a man or a woman, often require that one sacrifice family and children. does it have to be like this? let's ask ourselves that question. on an individual and, i must say, non-systemic level, the dilemma of young women is almost insoluble. the progress can be made by a society that recognizes the complexity of the task and does something about it. it's going to build a demand into the system, and it's going to make it easier for women to have children, to have families, and to be able to study and expand their education. this will strengthen the position of young women in labour markets, thus contributing to gender equality in the economic sphere. a developed society needs educated men and women, but also a functioning family, which is indispensable in the upbringing of children and creates an environment of security and solidarity for all its members. society must not slow down its development, but it cannot sacrifice the family, it cannot allow women to be denied access to education, but it must not restrict their right to have children. these are two imperatives that are at odds with each other. that's why we talk about reconciliation as a solution. it should also be in the interest of society, and in particular its legislators, educational institutions and employers, to be aware that the temporary economic losses involved may be worth the long-term benefits. if employers are not aware of this philosophy, the company may offer some form of compensation to compensate for any losses. the traditional solution to the conflict between family and education, or career, is well known. women who cannot afford or do not want to leave child care to someone else are renouncing higher education and careers. this works the other way around. to a limited extent, both female students and working women can use childcare facilities or ask grandparents to watch the children. when neither of these solutions is available, then a woman is faced with a choice: either family or education and career. such a dilemma should be a thing of the past and i am glad that the rapporteur has offered a good way out of this past.
i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the fact that we in this parliament are protecting europe's cultural heritage and working across the political groups to ensure that the traditional technological or geographical designation of spirit drinks is accurate enough to exclude the inclusion of other products under the same designation. we are not only protecting cultural diversity, but also consumer rights, and that's why i voted so that every consumer, wherever they are, who orders a glass of vodka, whiskey, rum or czech plum, can be sure that they're enjoying exactly the drink they want. that is why i voted for the idea that the name on the bottle should already make it possible to recognise that it is a different spirit than the traditional one, for example, a spirit made from bananas and not from potatoes, cereals or molasses should not be called banana vodka, but a banana drink or a spirit. maybe it wouldn't be so difficult to defend european vodka in the wto. the european consumer must be sure that he is buying what he really wants and not a substitute. it is therefore also important for the czech republic that the designation 'česká slivovka', which is traditionally made from plums, cannot be used for example for european distillates which taste like plums, as their juice is added to the spirit. and believe me, that's nothing compared to prunes burned on a plum tree. if you don't believe me, come and taste the plum. i ask that my plus sign be recorded in the last roll call, as my device has unfortunately failed.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, mercury is being referred to as a heavy metal, a very dangerous element in the food chain. similarly, a number of other heavy metals, from chromium and nickel to uranium and plutonium, are also mentioned. it is true that not only heavy metals but many of the light elements of the periodic table can cause health problems in large amounts. beryllium-induced berylliosis is known in this regard. mercury is not only a metal that can cause serious problems when ingested in its metallic state, but it is also a very important technical substance. in the past, it was used in electrolysis, dentistry, goldsmiths, and in chemical analysis, the famous instrumental method of using a mercury droplet electrode. for this method, called polarography, the czech academic heyrovský received the nobel prize in chemistry in 1959. the potential industrial use of mercury and its compounds is an important issue. of course, with the highest environmental standards. i'm not sure that storing mercury and its compounds in one place is the best solution. similarly, there is a question of how long the transitional period for the entry into force of the directive should be. i have the impression that in some states the time limit set by amendment no. 8 is too short. therefore, i have reservations about the proposal, even though in most member states mercury and its compounds are subject to strict monitoring by the competent national authorities, including stock inventory. i consider it unacceptable to incorporate the role of unspecified ngos in the directive. this, despite all the tolerance and openness to the public, is not covered by the directive on the prohibition of exports and the safe storage of metallic mercury. this control of civic engagement is reflected in other parts of european union legislation. i don't see why the salt mines or the almadena mines in spain should be the best storage sites for mercury and mercury compounds. i understand that the end of mining in every mine means a social problem for the miners. in the czech republic and other central and southern european countries, dozens of large mines have been closed in recent years, without anyone in the european union's directives having addressed the huge unemployment that this has created. besides, it seems to me that the bottom of the ore mines might be a better storage space than the salt mines. i very much support the intention to deal with substances with mercury concentrations below 5% by weight. in fact, heavy metals are commonly found in many rocks throughout europe and, as they weatherize, they, including mercury, enter european river waters. that's why, for example, there's always a certain non-zero concentration of mercury and other heavy metals in the elbe. it's a natural occurrence. another is the issue of water from old mines, the extraction of mercury from old landfills and sewage sludge. there's a potentially significant source of environmental pollution. but of course this cannot be covered by this directive. in conclusion, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the rational work on the directive under discussion, because mercury and its compounds have a future in science and technology. the directive suggests that. so let's support it.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on the great work she has done, in that she has in fact reworked the whole of the original commission proposal. however, i think that it has unfortunately failed to resolve the fundamental contradictions and to produce consensus material that would be consistent for all, as evidenced by the persistent negative attitude of some member states. i think it's a shame that the council has not been able, despite a fairly long period of discussion of the proposal, to come up with a company position. personally, i think that the commission's original proposal is much more favourable to the groups of people concerned than the rapporteur's proposal, because it guarantees pensioners much more rights. it is difficult to understand why the epp political group still insists on promoting the rapporteur's proposal, even though the most important part of it, namely the transfer of pension rights from one member state to another, has been omitted. our group welcomes the deletion of article 6, i.e. the transferability of rights, not only because of taxation issues, the absence of a community-wide calculation scheme, the absence of minimum standards for index policy, but mainly because the transferability of pension rights would lead to increased costs for pensioners themselves. our group disagrees with the following points, which were voted on in the committee on employment and social affairs, because they significantly worsen the commission's original proposal: the minimum age for exercising these rights is raised from 21 to 25 years, the scope of the persons covered by these rights is narrowed, the self-employed are excluded from the proposals and the period of time a person must be in the scheme to be eligible for benefits is extended to 5 years. together with other colleagues from our gue/ngl group, we have tabled amendments which should at least correct these most important points. the fate of these amendments, whether they are accepted or rejected, will also determine how we vote on the motion as a whole.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr díaz de mery rightly points out that it is necessary to ensure that information shared between countries relating to investigations has a uniform format and that data sharing is more flexible. at the same time, there is an effort to exchange other information in certain situations, which can also be useful. any such exchange of information has its logical pitfalls. at the very least, there is a difference in the legal systems of the member states and, consequently, a difference in the classification of the same act. in extreme cases, it can border on misdemeanor or felony. personally, i am concerned that my colleague díaz de mera may be the author of this report, although he is accused of not cooperating with the spanish police in the context of the dissemination of misleading information blaming eta for the attack on the train in madrid. where is the political and human responsibility of the former chief of the spanish police? in conclusion, a section of my group has serious reservations about this report.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present, after a year of work, the plenary report on consumer confidence in the digital environment together with the shadow rapporteurs. the european parliament will thus send a strong political appeal to the european commission and the member states to modernise the conditions for online business and to align the consumer protection agenda with the latest trends in the digital environment. businesses and consumers alike are waiting for clear and easily enforceable rules that will enhance the culture of online trading in the european market. the report is just the beginning of the process. i am aware that the commission, which is limited both financially and in terms of staff, has a considerable task ahead of it. public hearings and studies have revealed shocking facts that should not leave us alone: only 6% of consumers buy online across borders, a third do not receive the goods or services ordered due to their nationality, place of residence or place of issuance of their credit card. some modern electronic services providing digital content are only available if the customer is from the old 15. the user is bound by countless digital contracts that he has just clicked, not read, and therefore is unaware that they contain a number of unfair and unfair contractual terms. we found that even legal experts are unable to interpret the exact content of digital contracts, such as end-user license agreements. retailers are not aware of their obligations in e-commerce and are not familiar with the 27 legal systems. the consumer does not know his internet rights (there is no comprehensive document on them). users are not sure what they can and cannot do with the digital content they have purchased. they are afraid to deal with cross-border complaints and are unaware of the dangers of counterfeit medicines sold over the internet. we therefore ask the commission to launch an awareness-raising campaign on the risks of counterfeit medicines, we propose a europe-wide system of early warning of fraudulent activities on the internet and we ask for an extension of the scope of the contracts to be covered by the ban on so-called fraudulent contractual arrangements. the principle of the single market is less constraint and more choice. but paradoxically, despite the limitless possibilities of the internet, it's as if that doesn't apply to the electronic environment. i would venture to say that the 27 isolated national markets are holding back the development of the information society in europe, which is slipping behind the usa and asia in this sector as well. breaking down artificial or natural barriers to e-commerce also requires overcoming fragmented rules in member states. this can be achieved in the long term by full harmonisation, if there is political will. but such a dynamic industry requires faster and also more flexible solutions. this is why i prefer to coordinate the work on voluntary standards or, more precisely, on super standards, including a model of optional contract suitable for cross-border online trade. the content must be agreed by experts from both business and consumer organisations, with the european commission playing an irreplaceable coordinating role. compliance with the standards will justify the use of the european trustmark logo for cross-border e-commerce. consumer organisations welcome the introduction of the new mark and are committed to detecting and punishing any misuse of the new mark by means of existing technical and legal means. we also call for the formulation of a european charter of user rights in the information society. the european parliament is thus one of the first parliaments in the world to seek clarity on consumer rights on the internet. if the charter is made generally available and in all official languages, then consumers will start to demand their rights and it will be beneficial for businesses to comply with the charter and not risk the expense of dispute resolution. i believe that the report will inspire a higher culture in the digital environment. it is time to thank the shadow rapporteurs, mrs herczog, mrs rühle, mr schmidt and mrs jäätteenmäki, and the assistants, especially mr jirs, for their irreplaceable expertise, for their excellent cooperation. i appreciate the support of the coordinators, the chairwoman and the secretariat of the committee and the club. i appreciate the constructive communication from consumer organisations, business and individual commission departments. in particular, however, i would like to highlight the welcoming and exemplary openness of commissioner kuneva, who has made an excellent start to her new role in the commission. i am confident that it will overcome the difficulties that may arise in implementing our proposals to increase trust in the european digital space.
the rapporteur. thank you for a very stimulating and non-conflict debate and let me mention a parallel effect of this topic. there is great potential to reach european citizens, including the younger generation, if we can communicate the practical importance of the online single market properly. and it may also increase citizens' trust in the european institutions to take good care of it.
ladies and gentlemen, i was recently in cuba and cuba has made no progress at all in respecting human rights, but has actually become more rigid. i therefore call on the council and the commission to protest more forcefully against the gross violation of human rights in cuba. to actively support organizations that are concerned with the mere survival of political opponents and their families, or that help non-governmental organizations in cuba to communicate with each other and express their own views on public issues, to make the internet available to cubans in their embassies, because information is not available there. the council must work effectively to free political prisoners who are physically abused, fundamentally denied the medicines they need. but ordinary cubans also live in poverty and disease. we're short of doctors and modern technology. health care was once castro's pride, now there's common medicine for rich communist leaders or foreign tourists. the cuban people want change, they want freedom, and we cannot allow the council to open a dialogue with the cuban regime without formulating clear conditions for the release of prisoners and for pluralism of opinion.
ladies and gentlemen, the german presidency has really shaken europe up. unfortunately, not towards the prosperity of the union in the global economy, but rather towards the regime of fidel castro. unfortunately, the conclusions of the brussels summit make it clear that the union wants to preserve overpriced and dysfunctional social systems. it also shows that the eu heads of state continue to dream of full employment and stable prices. and by the third, the union had again moved a little further away from its basic principle of free competition without barriers. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that the suppression of free competition as the driving force of the european economy is a serious warning to all democratically minded citizens. it is only a short step from trampling on the freedom to do business to trampling on fundamental human rights and freedoms. the result of the german presidency is not, in my view, a bold and difficult road to prosperity, but a populist and easy road to the hell of institutional dirigism.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. in my question to the commission, i emphasized what is well known: the seriousness of cardiovascular disease, which kills almost two million people a year in the european union alone, is well known and unquestionable, and i am sure we can all agree on this. we know that the council itself recognised the need to tackle cardiovascular disease in a rapid way back in 2004. we know that medicine has made some remarkable progress in this area in the last 10 to 15 years. but the problem is the huge increase in costs in this area i always mention in the debate with the citizens of the czech republic for their representation and i will emphasize here that the treatment of myocardial infarction cost about 20 euros a day 15 years ago by the methods of that time, after the introduction of streptocinase it cost 1 000 euros per course and today in the age of stents and acute catheterization it costs 10 000 euros per course so we see that the increase in funds is considerable. on the other hand, it has enormous potential and enormous solutions for the myriad of patients who have suffered and died in the past, and today, if an acute myocardial infarction patient is treated urgently and properly, they can go home that day and they can go back to work in a few days. we see that the money spent can be recovered in the long run. another problem is the different levels not only in individual member states but within individual countries. one study in my country shows that the mortality rate from cardiovascular disease increases with distance, with how far away from a specialized center the patient lives. so we know that the european union is very heterogeneous on this issue, and there really is a path to a systemic solution here. without wishing to violate subsidiarity in any way and without wishing to become the advocate of the national governments, i would like to ask how the commission intends to deal with the exchange of information and experience, since we certainly have the means to do so and this is one of the ways in which we can make a significant improvement in this matter. what steps does the commission intend to take to reduce the economic burden and impact of cardiovascular diseases on the economies of individual member states, and what funding options are at the commission's disposal and can be recommended? in one of the amendments i signed today, i also call for consideration of the possibility of mass deployment of defibrillators to the public. we know that it's been very successful in japan, but i've seen in a number of countries, including the united states, the availability of defibrillators in public places. i know that this is a very expensive thing, and the opponents of this flat-rate approach argue that using this device requires a certain amount of erudition, but on the other hand, we know that this device can save lives in many cases before emergency medical help arrives. i would therefore be interested in the commission's answer to that additional question.
i too would like to congratulate and thank my colleague mr trakatellis for his report and his proposals. let me make a few notes. i do not want to go into the financial details, because that has already been done here, but i would just like to say as a doctor that by cutting funding we are likely to achieve that the joint programme we are discussing will simply be less effective. my deep conviction is that health promotion cannot be a budgetary residual sector. i would like to support amendment no 1 to the council, which mentions the implementation instruments we should have. i think this is a very necessary thing, because we have discussed many documents here which concern the protection of health or the fight against civilization's diseases, but we lacked effective tools for this. the second amendment i would like to mention and support concerns patient information. yes, we need an informed patient, but it's not just about better access to information, but i think it's about access to better and better quality information. such information can help our citizens not only to take better care of their own health, to take better care of their own health, but it can also help our citizens to resist advertising. as for advertising, i think we have a unique opportunity to show how honestly and sincerely we think about the fight against things like alcoholism when we discuss the proposals for action, that is, the report by our colleague foglietta, which concerns the fight against alcoholism. we will certainly have amendments here too, which concern the advertising of alcoholic products. let me also support and welcome the initiative of mr ouzky on his questions concerning cardiovascular disease. i think as a practicing cardiologist, i know quite a bit about this issue. i would like to say that today cardiology knows a lot about the causes and is prepared to help patients very effectively and return them to normal life, including working life. the problem is the willingness to invest in these programs, especially prevention. so far, we're just stumbling on the misconception that these funds are very well-repayable. the czech republic is a very good example in this respect. i believe that we cannot simply demand comparable conditions for the economic sector, but that we as members of parliament have an obligation to demand comparability in the health sector, and this also applies to a certain financial solidarity between the member states of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the action programme sets priorities for projects financed by both european and national funds according to the most common causes of death in europe. so, for cardiovascular disease, for neuropsychiatric disease, for cancer, for diseases of the digestive and respiratory systems, and so on and so forth. it's logical that we have to die of something, but the important thing is at what age. the high quality of european medicine, together with improvements in the environment and, in particular, in the economic wealth of people, are leading to longer life expectancy for europeans. this also poses new challenges. one concerns how to finance health and social systems in europe from public resources in the future, and the other concerns how to treat more effectively the polymorbidity that increases with age and is essential for the quality of life in old age. both are common to all member states, yet neither is included in the overall objectives of the union action plan on health. well, maybe next time then. addressing the first economic concern calls, among other things, for a reassessment of priorities within the company. and that's in government programs as well as in the private lives of citizens. my professional experience leads me to believe that the key is to substantially increase the personal responsibility of citizens for their health and disease prevention. patients are not stupid, and they can make their own decisions. but they need enough information, and it needs to be well-formulated. and that is why i wholeheartedly support the second reading motions. for example, proposal no 2, which concerns the programme's provision of better access to information for citizens, or proposal no 9, which concerns policies aimed at a healthier lifestyle. as regards the second concern, i would like to believe that the member states will be more active in promoting the coordination of scientific activities aimed at comprehensive treatment of comorbidities, regardless of, or precisely despite, the regrettable substantial reduction in the european budget for the action programme promoting health.
(the beginning of the speech was not heard) cooperation of the transmission system operators that more investment should be made in infrastructure. what's more controversial is the proposal to separate the power generation and distribution. the commission considers this to be a necessary step to eliminate discrimination between network users, to allow new producers to join naturally, to lead to independent investment decisions and to improve coordination between network operators. this liberal approach would certainly apply if we were talking about everyday goods, but with strategic, territorial natural resources, on which we are essentially dependent, the situation is different. do we know how to prevent the liberalised markets from immediately taking over companies linked to the main producing countries? and do we know the answer to the question of how to prevent the markets from being taken over by the russian state-owned gazprom? ladies and gentlemen, more than 40% of the union's gas consumption is currently covered by russia. in addition, individual members in bilateral agreements are reinforcing this dependence, and let us admit it, day by day. but relations between brussels and russia are not ideal. the answer to the question of what happens if russia abuses the union's dependence on its gas for political purposes is unknown. i think it's essential to know the answers before we start fundamentally changing the current energy market structure.
madam president, as the shadow rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to thank my colleague, mr vidal-quadras, for his great work, as well as for this excellent opportunity to discuss some of the very important issues, such as ownership unbundling or the role of national regulation authorities. i very much appreciate this initiative of the european parliament, as it could also help the european commission in further efforts to liberalise the internal gas and electricity market and as it assesses the measures already taken. ownership unbundling, the most controversial issue, proved to be the milestone of this report. i would like to support this activity of the european commission. however, as it is a somewhat controversial issue that needs to be further clarified and strengthened, i would like to call on the commission to carry out further impact assessment studies to analyse means other than unbundling of increasing transparency and ensuring conditions for proper investment in infrastructure. if the commission decides in favour of unbundling, the implementation process must be prepared carefully in order to be as sensitive as possible to ownership rights. with regard to ownership unbundling, i would like to support amendments and proposals that soften the assertion that unbundling is the only and most efficient way to liberalise the internal energy market and which, therefore, consider other means as well. with regard to the section entitled ‘regulators’, i would like to emphasise the role of the national regulation authorities, which should be independent of governments and bear part of the responsibility in the process of the liberalisation of the energy market. as a member from a new member state, i would also criticise some opinions of my colleagues tending to accuse only central and eastern european countries of interventionism in decisions taken by the national regulators.
commissioner, i have supported more flexible authorisation of food additives, so that the commission can directly monitor their environmental and health impact. let me draw your attention to a large group of allergy sufferers whose lives depend on following a gluten-free diet. in addition to the special bakery, they buy regular foodstuffs that do not usually contain gluten, so it is necessary that the additives are properly labelled and do not mislead the customers. both manufacturers and controls often ignore the fact that the labelling of each product must explicitly state whether or not it contains glue. hundreds of thousands of europeans suffering from food allergies unfortunately lack the confidence to buy food, so they either limit their food choices unnecessarily or, worse, risk their health. i call on the commission to ensure that gluten is thoroughly examined in additives and that the labelling of all foods is complete, so that it makes sense for europeans on gluten-free diets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. i don't see the need for a conciliatory tone. there's too much at stake. the green paper on modernising labour law has one good thing. it can be torn to shreds as an incredible compilation of half-truths and hypocritical statements. i'd like to use my opportunity to ask you a few questions. why was its content not discussed with the social partners? do they not exist at the european level? labor law was created and evolved for a hundred years to equalise the status of employees offering their labor to employers. why does the green paper pretend that the need to redress this inequality has already passed? why does the document not state that the performance of a number of jobs is already being carried out outside the field of labour law? does the commission consider labour to be a commodity? why does the green paper so eloquently state that indefinite contracts are obsolete, a claim with which 76% of europeans are said to agree? why does the green paper not propose to abolish the international labour organization, given all that it has approved over almost a century? can commissioner spidla tell me whether he is aware that, with the exception of a few member states, the hypocritical guidelines for increasing the role of the social partners cannot be met? does he know that in many member countries, social dialogue is a fiction and a tool of governments to discredit unions? i'm naming the czech republic for all of them. does he know that unionism is virtually impossible for those who have held precarious jobs? does he know that labor inspections exist in a number of countries on paper only? i'm only naming the czech republic for all of them again. the newly created concept of flexicurity deserves special attention. this new feature in european newspeak is intended to create the impression that it is not about fleexploitation. it will supposedly reduce the gap between insiders and outsiders in the labor market, apparently by making everyone outsiders.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, the common rules for the operation of air transport services in the community follow on from the third air package and the problems associated with its practical application. perhaps the biggest problem to be solved here is the safety of transport, the social conditions of the employees, including the machines rented with the crew, and the guarantees of the customers, who traditionally pay in advance. this raises questions of the financial health of the airline, increased requirements on the conditions of aircraft leasing, including proposed time limits. i think it's also desirable that the customer knows what he's actually buying with his money. surely you too would be suspicious of an airline advertisement promising transportation for 1 euro. of course, the question of how detailed the price list should be is another matter. in this context, it is very important to clarify the division of the cost item for the handling of the passenger and for the handling of the aircraft, including the never-ending discussion on the concept of reasonable profit. i cannot accept the argument that was made in the debate that this is a technical standard and social issues are not part of it. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr degutis, who also touches on social issues in his speeches. he has done a good job and his report deserves our support. as regards the amendments tabled, i agree with them, with the exception of nos 16, 29, 37, 40, 42, 49 and 50. and even with these names, it's not usually a matter of disagreement. it is usually a matter of the same thing being stated in two places or of a choice of a better alternative.
mr president, the portuguese presidency wants to complete the european treaty while facing the challenges of global competition. i must point out that these are completely incompatible and contradictory processes. the new text makes it clear that the treaty seeks to preserve overpriced and dysfunctional social systems. it also shows that the heads of state of the union are dreaming of the bolshevik dream of stable prices and full employment. and above all, the union is again moving a little further away from its fundamental principle of free competition without barriers, which it simply deleted from the new treaty. mr president, i would like to reiterate that the rejection of free competition as the driving force of the european economy is a serious warning to all democratically minded citizens. it's only a short step from trampling on the freedom of enterprise to trampling on basic human rights and freedoms. the main objective of democratic policies should therefore now be to bring free competition back into the treaty immediately.
today, i also voted to give the commission the power to amend the annexes in a flexible manner in order to lay down certain technical requirements and vehicle inspection rules in the european union. these are measures which, although they do not concern the essential elements of the directive, nevertheless allow me to say that the disposal of old vehicles should be speeded up, not only in terms of their safety but also in terms of the amount of air pollution they produce. on the one hand, we are overpricing the production of new cars because of the ever-increasing emissions parameters, and thus making them less accessible to poorer citizens, so on the other hand, more and more old cars are driving on the roads emitting dangerous fumes. i call on the commission to adopt a concept that will encourage a more rapid changeover of the fleet in the european union.
mr. chairman, this compromise is truly a square circle. we are liberalising postal services so that competition can bring consumers a wider range of services, higher quality and lower prices, but at the same time we are afraid that these universal services will fail in a market environment, so liberalisation will be regulated. i am a strong advocate of fair competition and that is why i voted for proposal no 2 to make the same universal service obligations binding on all players in the single market. but that didn't sit well with the raisins-peddlers who lobbied so vehemently against it. proposal no 6 was key to transparent accounting so that the cost of profitable products of firms was not included in the cost of universal services. new technologies compete with postal services but do not drive them out of the market. although paper mail is declining, parcel delivery is key to the development of e-commerce. it is therefore not in the interests of consumers or businesses to leave postal services to their fate without fail-safe.
madam president, the introduction of the single currency was intended to create a single internal market. but the european union today is built on the concept of rigid political integration and the creation of a re-regulated superstate, rather than the creation of the economic freedoms that were the basis of the common market in 1957 and which are still not being fulfilled. the non-approval of the original bolkenstein directive, the obstacles to the free transfer of production to efficient parts of the union, the restrictions on the free movement of labour from the new member states and other protectionist and regulatory interferences with the freedom of the common market make the euro an artificial currency. the result is a common currency in a non-unified market. typical examples have been the brutal enforcement of the stability pact concessions that some large eu countries have forced on themselves, on the one hand, and the imposition on new members of the eurozone of meaningless and outdated conditions for entry that do not respect the necessary inflation rate and other indicators that are only secondary and accompanying phenomena of highly dynamic economies that grow faster than the eu average. this rigidity of the eurozone and the failure to exercise economic freedoms in an unfairly fragmented single market make the euro a dangerous and half-baked product. madam president, please allow me to make a technical remark. on the panel above you and on the display, my name has regularly been incorrectly displayed for several months now. the "y" at the end of my name is missing. please take note of this.
please allow me to express my and our group’s satisfaction with the motion for a resolution we are going to vote for tomorrow. to our satisfaction it does not criticise the quartet as was perceived by some political groups. on the contrary, it expresses support for its future intensified action. the motion for a resolution clearly expresses full support and understanding for the extraordinary decisions taken by mahmoud abbas. the resolution will take note of confidence-building talks between salam fayyad’s government and the israeli government, as well as the renewal of security cooperation. we welcome the decision on taxes and revenues as well as the start of the release of political prisoners by israel. nevertheless, mahmoud abbas must go for real democracy, for political party congress and for work with young fatah. israel should seriously consider the lifting of roadblocks as was the state before december 2000 and stop the extension of settlements. egypt should be part of the solution to the gaza problem. sending international forces to gaza would be an incredible risk to all of us, and for the european union the composition of the proposed international conference should be a matter of great concern. syria should be held responsible for its external action. only then can it be part of the dialogue and the solution. we try to help those in the west bank, palestinians, as much as we can via financial help and in every other way. nevertheless, 90% of those in the west bank are peasants, the felaheen. they depend on agricultural exports. we urge israel to open the flow of goods, and my question is, how does our agriculture hypocrisy work? are we ready to open our markets to palestinian west bank agricultural products?
for the group gue/ngl i'd like to join in thanking the reporter for the great job he's done. so far, our debate has been consistent in our desire for ukraine, as one of our neighbours, to be a stable, democratic and developing state. i think the report misses at least three points that i would like to stress. the first point is that we should strive to stabilise the socioeconomic and, in particular, the health situation in ukraine. i do not know whether we are sufficiently aware of the seriousness of the fact that, even with a weak economy, ukraine is developing very dangerous infectious diseases, which in their own way are also a threat to other countries, especially the countries of the european union, due to strong migration. i consider it very important to strengthen our assistance to ukraine in the field of health in the period ahead. the second point concerns ukraine's neighbours, namely moldova and belarus. the european union has devoted a great deal of political work, as well as financial resources, to helping to resolve the situation in transnistria. i think we should be more attentive to how these means and human resources are used by the ukrainian side precisely for a positive solution to the situation in transnistria, especially with regard to the control of illegal trade and other negative things that are happening on this border and where ukraine can significantly intervene positively. as far as belarus is concerned, i am thinking in particular of emphasising that ukraine should cooperate more in dealing with the consequences of the chernobyl accident, but also that it should cooperate more with belarus in dealing with migration issues, because it is through ukraine that the main flows of illegal migration towards the european union are shown to be moving. i think our common wish is that the upcoming elections in ukraine are free of negative external interference, that they are truly democratic and that they show ukraine as a stable, good partner for the european union.
(ni) ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the report by mr kamińský, which sets out the situation as we, as members of the committee on parliamentary cooperation with ukraine, have recently noted in our personal contacts with parliament, the government and president yushchenko. it also reflects the union's current ambiguous stance towards the country. after supporting the orange revolution in december 2005 and the acceptance of president yushchenko in this parliament, we should move on. we should make it clear that we not only support ukraine, but we stand for it. despite all the problems facing our eastern neighbour, i am convinced that ukraine should become a member of the european union in the foreseeable future. it has not only strong historical, cultural and economic links with the member states, but also plays a key role in ensuring the energy security of the area. like the rapporteur, i support such an agreement between the european union and ukraine, which sets out the concrete terms and timetable for the development of relations and reforms leading to ukraine's integration into the union. i am also committed to increasing financial assistance to ukraine and to continuing to call for the vigorous implementation of reforms, the fight against corruption and the creation of a stable, reliable and predictable investment environment. i hope that the new member states, which share not only linguistic and geographical proximity with ukraine but also a totalitarian past and a reformist present, will play a particular role in this process.
let me also welcome, in my introduction, first of all the council's decision to open negotiations on a new agreement between the eu and ukraine aimed at deepening political cooperation and achieving ukraine's gradual economic integration into the internal market of the european union. i share the rapporteur's view that in order to achieve these ambitious and mutually important objectives, specific procedures, conditions and priorities need to be set. these priorities include, in addition to wto accession, the gradual establishment of an integrated free trade area, an area which should be based on a common legal basis and which, in my view, should cover all trade in goods, services and capital. and a second concrete economic priority should also be the swift integration of ukraine into the european energy community.
i really appreciate the political impact of the report. it is proof that ukraine is not a threat but an opportunity for the eu. i know that europe will not be whole until ukraine is part of the european union. we are bound together by a common history and hundreds of thousands of intertwined bloodlines. i am sincerely glad that ukraine is on the path to democracy. i hope that the opening of accession will not be rushed, as in the case of turkey, where all the copenhagen criteria have not been met and there is now disappointment on both sides. i wish the opposition in the country would also make it clear that for the citizens of the eastern half of the country, the goal of eu membership is also an important one. this long-term goal requires a change in the minds of millions of citizens who must also identify with it. it is easy to promise ukraine membership today, but above all we should help it to join nato and the wto first.
for the ppe-de group. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. these regional differences are more pronounced in today's enlarged european union than in the original 15. the reasons may vary, be it geographical location, the nature of the housing structure, the sectoral structure of the economy, the stratification of society or other reasons relating to the history of the area. these differences can be erased to some extent by structural policies, but we will always have poorer and richer regions. i believe that it is therefore very important to focus on making sure that all regions of the european union are experiencing more or less significant economic progress and social development. we should focus on making sure that structural money significantly boosts gdp growth, increases employment and contributes to sustainable development, and this is where i ask the following questions: what structural measures have contributed to the growth of successful regions such as ireland? what causes regions like italy's mezzogiorno to fall behind repeatedly, where structural money has been flowing for decades and still does not bring the desired change? how can we avoid eating up european money and invest it in the future? ladies and gentlemen, i am not convinced that the report we are discussing today provides any clear guidance in this respect. but the reality is that only by getting the questions posed answered can we avoid repeating the mistakes of the past in today's poorest regions and ensure that european money brings real added value to regional economies and societies. however, it is too early to fully assess the benefits of structural policy for the poorest regions, as the poorest countries have only just joined the union. the problem is still the complexity of the whole structure.
i appreciated the fact that the ppe-de group's proposals were not blocked, which put the political gestures in the report on a more realistic footing. we all know that the opening of accession negotiations with ukraine cannot begin immediately, but is a matter of ten years or more, and this despite the fact that here, except for extreme politicians, we all want to accept ukraine. i reject cheap gestures, and that's why i welcomed the sensible changes in the report. it will thus be an important signal for democratic activities before the elections in ukraine, but above all it will support the conclusion of a treaty on deepening economic cooperation, a very real step towards european integration. i thank mr. kaminski and mr. broka for their willingness to compromise.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, commissioner, i think it is very good that today the thematically linked reports on the general principles for the establishment and revision of secondary community law are being discussed in one block. he would like to make a brief comment on mr gargani's report, although i consider it to be of good quality and therefore worthy of the plenary's approval. i fully agree that a strategy of simplifying the legal environment should be a political priority. in this context, however, i believe that the role of the european parliament in the legislative process needs to be further strengthened. i am thinking in particular of the fact that parliament, like the commission, has the legislative initiative, which would undoubtedly also have a positive impact on the process of simplifying and improving the quality of the european legal environment. i would also like to express my scepticism about the commission's target of reducing the volume of community legislation, including national legislation, by 25% by 2012. the simplification programme for 2006 to 2009 indicates that 43 revisions, 12 codifications, 26 further basic measures and 8 repeals are to take place. but on the other hand, 500 new legislative initiatives are expected, just as regards the codecision procedure. i therefore consider that the commission's plans to reduce secondary community law are unrealistic.
ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the single market is the cornerstone of the european union's competitiveness and consumer satisfaction. the report we are discussing today clearly and, in my view, very correctly states that this market, of which we can be proud, is built on the principle of competition. i would therefore like to point out that the single market is now in danger. the danger for him is the reform treaty being prepared by the portuguese presidency. i would point out that, under the german presidency, undistorted competition is one of the fundamental objectives of the union, which is always decisive in resolving any disputes. the union is now the only thing left to do. competition thus falls within the scope of an additional protocol which has no legal force. the defence of the principles of undistorted competition in the union will thus be even more difficult after the adoption of the treaty than it is today. this will neither improve the union's competitiveness nor improve consumer satisfaction.
fifteen years ago, mr commissioner, the member states agreed to deeper economic integration and committed themselves to creating a single european area for the free movement of goods, services, capital and people. in the 1990s, this created a competitive environment for businesses, which brought consumers a wide range of products and lower prices. however, after 2000, we find that, in particular the old member states, covertly and visibly protect national small markets from neighbourly competition, tolerate administrative and other obstructions and thus block the rapid and complete completion of the common internal market without obstacles. it is paradoxical, given the speed with which world trade is being liberalized and the speed with which we are clearing the way for third-country goods in europe. a healthy european market would be the key to tackling the challenges of globalisation and our unemployment. the cause of this irrationality is populism and the exaltation of false national interests over the common interests of consumers and businesses. i therefore welcome the commission's green paper and the proposed revision, which reveal the circumvention of existing european legislation in a number of countries, as well as the gaps that reduce confidence in the single market. for example, ambiguity about when the country of origin principle applies and when it does not. for the market to work well, we need to make progress in the liberalisation of network services and also to tackle the financial services market and also to overcome myths in health and social services. the introduction of the euro and the recent directive have made trade within the union more transparent and deeper. we all know that businessmen are burdened by increasing administrative burdens, and we need a level playing field for fair international competition. we need to modernize and simplify regulations. i call on the commission to make a special effort to monitor the implementation of the existing directives, to make progress on mutual recognition and then to propose further harmonisation. i am aware that the globalisation of trade will force progress in the standardisation of other products and the agreement on the european mark of origin. i agree that the diversity of corporate taxation is a source of tension that will require further discussion. the european market is not a dogma, it is a process.
in writing. the report under consideration is of great importance in the context of improving and simplifying the community legal environment. i would like to stress its importance, particularly in view of the need to strengthen the role of the european parliament in the legislative process and in removing the democratic deficit. i fully support the need to establish ways of consulting the european parliament also in the area of the adoption of so-called non-binding legal acts, in particular because they are relatively common acts, often associated with such adjectives as 'vague' and 'ineffective', and because their deliberate abuse may be an expression of the commission's overstepping its bounds and because the public may identify with these acts the impression of a european 'super-bureaucracy'. although the report recommends that the term 'non-enforceable instrument' should never be used in official documents of the community institutions and that the distinction between dura lex and mollis lex should not be accepted, i do not think that this is a relevant issue. the distinction between binding and non-binding community acts objectively exists and this recommendation does not alter its existence and substance. moreover, the fact that the soft rules of secondary community law are not binding does not mean that they are without legal effect. i would like to remind you, for example, of their importance for the interpretation of legal acts. furthermore, failure to issue a recommendation or an opinion where a community institution is required to do so may give rise to an action for failure to act. however, my comment is rather formal and does not go against the report as a whole.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the single european sky project is a confirmation of my personal experience as a pilot that aviation is a prime example of the need for transnational cooperation across national borders. it is for this reason that, in view of the need to ensure maximum safety of air traffic, its most efficient operation with the least possible flight delays, we support the creation of functional blocks and, eventually, a single european sky. but let's not forget that just as fragmentation is expensive, so is defragmentation. and because it is a complex system, i am interested in maintaining the continuity for the gradual creation of a single air traffic management system in the common airspace. moreover, the unification of european skies, where 27 national control systems are now operating, is threatening the number of jobs for dispatchers and other specialists in the field. i am informed that there has been a fairly successful long-term social dialogue on these issues, and therefore i believe that there is a need to combine seemingly contradictory paths. in order to fly more safely, more efficiently, with the least possible flight delays while eliminating as much as possible the danger of aviation emergencies. it is nothing less than the lives of people, both those who fly and those who manage the airline.
in writing. member countries have agreed to create joint air blocks to control the single sky regardless of national borders. earlier, two planes crashed over germany, killing 71 people. the reasons for the single sky are stronger, for 28 thousand flights a day we have 57 checkpoints, america two, we are after three years at the beginning. the eu has not implemented all the 2004 regulations. it was intended to integrate airspace into the internal market for services and to provide the basis for an effective management system for safety, the environment and the increase of the capacity of the skies. today we have 65 radar stations and 31 systems using 22 computer networks, and we expect europe to have twice as many overflights in ten years. do citizens know that their governments and parliaments are ignoring the benefits of a united europe to their detriment? why is the joint management of airspace for civil and military flights over a united europe being built so slowly? for the local economic interests? for the sake of safeguarding national sovereignty, at the expense of transportation safety and at the cost of high costs? today we are interested in how and when we will unify the classification of upper airspace and how we will manage lower airspace in the future. can the obstacles to the emergence of functional blocs over the territory of europe be identified openly and what is the political will of the member states to meet their obligations? we are also concerned that the bottom-up approach has failed, as member states have not developed functional blocks for more effective control of the sky in three years.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, when i discussed the original strategy with the czech expert, he had one comment: 'too little, too late'. i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for correcting this view and for having succeeded in moving the text of this strategy in a very positive direction. i would like to emphasize the following points in particular: firstly, the amended draft text is in line with the view that it is necessary to increase financial resources for information and prevention programmes in the fight against alcoholism; the second strategy focuses on young people who are a vulnerable group. in particular, i welcome and support article 7.9 which deals with university students and then article 16 which provides for mandatory labelling; thirdly, i also consider the wording of article 21 to be essential, which draws attention to the link between incapacity for work and alcohol consumption, since we must not forget that any alcoholic workforce in europe will be hardly competitive in the global world. i have some doubts about the wording of article 2, which refers to a study by the world health organization on the benefits of alcohol in preventing certain diseases. with all due respect to the who, i would like to point out that there are very qualified analyses available, such as the 2006 filmora and collective, which show that the studies on the benefits of alcohol were constructed incorrectly and that they also include, for example, older people who have stopped drinking or casual drinkers. the outcome of this study is therefore highly uncertain. there is also the question of what message we want to convey to the citizens by this statement in article 2. i hope not, that alcohol in small doses is harmless in any amount. despite this critical remark, i want to give my full support to the strategy, the text which has been prepared in cooperation with the rapporteur, and i believe it will be to the benefit of our fellow citizens.
ladies and gentlemen, terrorism poses a serious threat to peace, stability and prosperity in europe. terrorism, as has been said, is also an attack on the fundamental values on which european integration is built. it means the concept of human rights, the rule of law, freedom and democracy. for this reason, i am convinced that the response of the european union and its member states to the threat of terrorism must be firm and unequivocal. however, this decisive response should not be limited to repressive security measures. it should also be more concerned than ever with prevention and preventive action, both within our member states and with our foreign neighbours. as regards our common foreign and security policy, its objectives should be to promote economic and social development, to actively promote civil society and the concept of human rights, and to seek a peaceful solution to international conflicts, including the palestinian-israeli conflict. our common foreign and security policy should also focus more than ever on promoting and developing regional cooperation, whether in the framework of the neighbourhood policy or the barcelona process. finally, mr president, commissioner, together with our friends in the united states and other countries, we should draw up a comprehensive united nations convention on terrorism.
madam president, i am not going to take part in this stupid debate on liquids. the only people entitled to do so are security and technical experts. if they come to clear conclusions, then it is only our duty to react immediately. nothing scares terrorists more than our ability to react. the threat of terrorism is built on our rigidity – the rigidity of settled, conservative systems – and our lack of ability to adapt to new dimensions in communication, flows of information, money transfers and flows of persons. the only way forward is to create floating structures, ad hoc teams, the horizontal, interoperable sharing of information and cross-agency and cross-state cooperation, and to empower europol and eurojust. the resignation of mr de vries was clearly a very bad sign. it was confirmation of the eu’s inability to overcome a stupid, old-fashioned, nation-based security approach. it was sadly symptomatic of a lack of ability to share information and execute decisions. the reform treaty, on the other hand, sends a great and positive signal. minimum rules on police cooperation, the approximation of criminal and civil codes, mutual recognition of criminal and civil judgments, as well as eu protection of evidence, victims of crimes and criminals themselves, are measures which state that with a lot of energy, money and political pain we can cope with terrorism and that we can be of some help to the european citizens of london, glasgow and other threatened locations. commissioner, member states have until december 2007 to implement the third money laundering directive. i call on the commission to be clear and decisive in its push for implementation of the necessary security measures to control money laundering and the financing of terrorism. this will be of help to us and we have to help you. then we can say clearly that we are ready to fight and to win.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in voting today on the three milk reports, i supported the commission's proposals because they are steps in the right direction. the milk and milk products market is unnecessarily and unreasonably over-regulated in the european union, and both consumers and producers are paying the price. it is therefore right that the existing rules should be liberalized, it is good that not only the three existing categories of milk but also other categories with different fat content should be allowed to be marketed. this will give consumers and producers greater freedom of choice. such developments are to be welcomed. the commission should continue to pursue the liberalisation of the milk and milk products market with determination, as the current quota system is outdated and dysfunctional. there is no reason to continue to fine producers for producing too much milk. now, with demand for milk and milk products rising worldwide, quotas are emerging as a barrier to dairy development across the european union.
i supported a report that was supposed to help reduce alcohol consumption where it's excessive or dangerous. and i'm all for zero tolerance, but only for professional drivers. i reject the general warning labels as an alibi which is not in the interests of the european union. i believe that it is up to national parliaments to take measures that are not generalised, that are not populist, that are not alibi-based, but that are aimed at educating, and that are targeted at, the target groups that are really affected by excessive alcohol consumption.
the author. mr president, first of all i would like to apologize to our interpreters, because i did not prepare any written speech and therefore could not make any speech available to them in advance. but i promise i will try to speak very slowly and also very briefly. the point is clear. let me begin by welcoming the fact that the portuguese presidency has made desertification and water scarcity one of the main objectives of its programme and of its presidency. that is why i also, of course, welcomed the organisation of the forthcoming conference mentioned at the beginning. you know that this parliament and the european union as a whole have taken climate change as one of the main challenges for the coming period, and we know that water scarcity and the increasing desertification are directly linked to this climate change. it's the real impact of them. i personally am one of those people who thinks that maybe we should be more prepared for the coming impacts of climate change than we are for desperately trying to stop it, because our efforts are unlikely to be successful. but today it is certain that europe, especially its southern parts, will face water shortages and losses in soil quality. it's clear to me from the climate debate that there's a vicious circle going on, that water loss in the atmosphere is causing further desertification, and that's causing further warming, so it's going to be very difficult to break that vicious circle. i would like to ask the commission and the council on behalf of my committee: what specific action do the commission and the council intend to take in this area and is it clear today what can be done at the level of national governments and what can be done at the level of the whole of europe?
mr president, i supported the european parliament's compromise position on the review of consumer law in the union. the report proposes improvements for half a billion citizens in contract cancellation, delivery of goods, warranty enforcement, calculation of different lengths of time, limitation of unreasonable contractual terms, and also in the purchase of digital content or online auctions. however, as the commission prepares the biggest ever revision of consumer rules, parliament could call for more modern, innovative or far-reaching changes. in particular, the five priority areas: enhanced consumer protection in electronic commerce; facilitating cross-border sales for consumers and businesses; enhanced supervision of the implementation and compliance by member states with the applicable european rules; enhanced consumer literacy and successful enforcement of consumer rights, including across borders. i believe the commission's proposal will be bolder. i know that commissioner kuněva is determined to do such a difficult job.
ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that europe needs to do more to develop renewable energy, either because it is being depleted by others or because it is an important means of reducing emissions in the energy mix. i've intentionally brought up the whole energy mix, because i consider it the foundation. i am convinced that we must also be deliberate in the development of renewable energy sources, and especially in the development of the rules for it. our goal is not to achieve a certain percentage of renewable energy, but to reduce emissions and dependence on other sources. so let's not forget about that mix. as the practice of other blasphemous and ambitious objectives and declarations here in the european parliament has shown, nothing can be achieved by simply setting percentages without taking account, for example, of the geographical, economic and other conditions of individual countries or regions. we have to be careful not to lose our competitiveness with the rest of the world. we must also not forget that some renewable energy sources, such as solar or wind, need to be backed up. so, renewable energy support, yes, but not militant struggle without substantive discussion and argument. still, renewable energy is not cheap, and many countries or even end-users simply cannot afford it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make two comments on mrs thomsen's report. the report begins by stating that: a) conventional energy sources will soon be exhausted, b) we are increasingly dependent on imported energy resources, and c) climate change will have terrible effects on the population. now my number one point. i consider only the eu countries' growing dependence on imported energy resources to be a clear and undeniable fact. this is a serious political problem. but the solution is not a unilateral preference for renewable energy sources. the solution must be much more complex. in this context, i would like to highlight the aspects which are missing from the report. on the one hand, it is the responsibility of individual member states to set their own energy policy and, in this connection, their right to their own energy mix. i also fail to stress the economic necessity of spending the limited funds at our disposal, i stress the economic use of those funds. i also believe that the european union should cooperate with the united states, including the coordination of its approach to energy exporting countries. and lastly, i am missing the importance of nuclear energy in the report. now, note two. i consider the theses of the rapid depletion of conventional energy sources and the terrible impact of climate change on the population on which the report is based to be debatable. we shouldn't operate on them as if they were indisputable facts.
ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, georgi jarzembowski, has proposed a controversial bill that would allow passengers to board and exit any station on the international route. including stations located in the same member state. i believe that this provision can be applied by analogy to international bus transport. this is the issue that has been the subject of several recent international disputes. it is good that the report by mr savary includes the rights of the social partners and the interoperability specifications. i am aware, however, that there is still a problem of funding training, the selection of examiners and the scope of the examinations for drivers. as regards language skills, it is necessary to insist on certain minimum requirements from the point of view of road safety. i welcome the call for non-discriminatory access rules for people with reduced mobility and cyclists in mr sterckx's report. it also imposes a number of clearly defined technical requirements, but i am still bothered by the fact that, unlike the swiss roads, we are talking about a penalty, not about trying to fulfil the required transport service. i think it is appropriate to evaluate this package within two years of its introduction, i think it is absolutely necessary. we'll vote against the first report and for the next two.
ladies and gentlemen, as the member for the czech republic, which has already restructured its sugar market, i cannot agree to the proposed amendments. they're unsystematic and unfair. as it appears, the reform does not lead to the selection of economically uncompetitive undertakings. it creates a disproportion that benefits only the large european sugar companies, but not the consumers and growers. i cannot explain to the public how it is that many countries have not given up their sugar quotas at all or only to a small extent and the rest of us now have to pay them more money for not keeping the agreements. in particular, firstly, i am fundamentally opposed to increasing aid for partial restructuring to the level of aid for full restructuring. secondly, the increase of the part of the restructuring aid from 10% to 50% for sugar beet growers and contracted machinery suppliers is totally unjustified. thirdly, i do not support the increase of the additional payment for growers and any increase in the temporary restructuring amount, nor do i support the extension of the additional payment for suppliers. fourthly, i consider it absolutely absurd to propose that the dismantling of equipment which took place last year should be considered as having taken place in the current marketing year and subsequent years. ladies and gentlemen, i think it is absolutely essential to take into account the total amount of quotas surrendered during the restructuring process. i do not support the amendment that only quotas renounced by undertakings from the 2008/2009 marketing year should be taken into account. i believe that unless the commission intends to abandon the purely administrative and, moreover, very unfair way of managing the sugar reform, it would be best to push for the abolition of sugar quotas as soon as possible and to liberalise the sugar market.
ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the sugar sector in the european union needs to undergo far-reaching reforms to maintain its successful future. these reforms include the necessary reduction in production. however, this reduction should primarily affect economically non-competitive undertakings. sadly, the reality is often different. for example, in my home country, the czech republic, new, efficient and economically prosperous sugar mills have been closed down and quotas have been handed over to multinational producers. of course, with very negative consequences for home growers and consumers. i would therefore urge the commission to take much greater account than it has done so far of the principles of economic competitiveness in the necessary reforms of the sugar regime and to pay much greater attention than it has done so far to the development of the biofuels sector. this is where i think there are new possibilities for sugar beet growers and a new future.
madam speaker, i am the member for the country that invented the sugar cube. quality sugar was our pride, and that pride has been ruthlessly taken away by the european union. if regulation 320 were applied, the czech republic would be punished, among other things, for behaving correctly towards foreign investors from the original eu countries and allowing them to control the sugar industry in our country. the regulation is a non-systemic attempt to cater to the interests of the big european sugar companies and ignore the interests of traditional growers and producer countries. it is therefore necessary, as the amendment proposed by mr faimone and others states, to allow member states to exclude points (a) and (b) and to leave it to the member state to deal with the critical situation which would result from a reduction of the quota by 20% or more. otherwise, after centuries, the czech republic risks becoming an unnecessary importer of its traditional product. when our grandchildren and great-grandchildren one day start to collect the reasons why the czech republic should leave the european union, the sugar policy and the regulations we are discussing will be at the top of the list.
commissioner, we must restore the parents' confidence in the european market. and since the health of the children is at stake, we want action as soon as possible. we're discussing how. ladies and gentlemen, i don't think that when a problem arises, we should immediately have a new law or even a new brand. first, we need to get countries to review their product safety controls. secondly, we must negotiate with third countries to ensure that they also introduce safety standards for the products they export to our union. the commission will soon provide us with an analysis that will reveal the gaps in product safety control in the member states, and we may learn why denmark or austria, for example, do not catch dangerous products as much as germany, even though they have the same laws. commissioner, i very much appreciate the way you have been uncompromising in your approach to the chinese government, and that is finally the right direction and i hope that other commissioners will follow suit. but back to europe. i call on the commission to focus on preventing the misuse of a brand that informs citizens that they are buying a genuine product. that's not gonna solve the new quality label. we just need enough sanctions for the misuse of today's ce mark. this will, at no great cost, enable manufacturers to improve internal controls and thus accelerate the withdrawal of other dangerous products from the market. not just toys. for example, slovakia has a high penalty in the toy act. the czech republic is not. but even under general laws, states are required to impose fines for misrepresenting information on toys or shoes and other products. i therefore ask the commission to urge the member states to take this responsibility seriously.
mr. chairman, the proposed sugar reform is not working. it is ostensibly based on economics, but there are other factors than economics that play a role in the exit considerations. in the czech republic, which produces sugar economically, we have still surrendered 22% of the quota. this quota is owned by western european owners. unfortunately, the proposed measures may have a negative impact on the czech republic. what is our advantage in economic sugar production, the larger average area of each beet grower, could turn out to be a disadvantage if farmers also have the right to initiate market withdrawals. it is not desirable that those who would survive without subsidies should leave the market. in this respect, the reform is going in the opposite direction. that is why i voted against both reports by mrs batzel.
ladies and gentlemen, in today's vote, i voted against the reports by mrs batzel on the reform of the sugar regime, as did other members of the civic democratic party from the czech republic. the reform of the sugar regime so far has caused damage in the czech republic in the form of many closed sugar factories and depreciated machinery and technology. my country has been a traditional sugar producer and exporter for a long century and now, as a result of the bad policy of the european union, we are becoming a net importer of sugar on the basis of incompetent official decisions from brussels. the czech republic has already reduced its sugar production by more than 20%, and now it is the turn of the other eu countries, especially those that have not yet reduced their production at all. for these reasons, i voted against the reform.
in writing. the european union is often rightly criticised for its intervention in a number of sectors. the food sector is particularly controversial. it is true that some of the difficulties are the fault of the member states. a typical example is the convulsive attempt by a number of central and eastern european countries to eliminate agricultural cooperatives, which are thriving in agriculture. in the czech republic, several amendments to the law on cooperatives were aimed at this objective. a number of cooperatives have been dissolved, others have been transformed into other legal entities. production was reduced in a number of sectors, including sugarcane. at the same time, it has managed to sever the privatised processing from primary production, which is very unfortunate. the sugar mills were thus acquired by foreign entities and one of the results is the literally catastrophic state of the sugar industry in the czech republic. the profits from this tragic situation are collected by foreign entities, the losses by czech entities. this is more than a 20% reduction in sugar production in a country that has been exporting sugar for 150 years. now it must import it and find new uses for farms that have been cultivating sugar beet. this unsustainable state of affairs is not the answer to the report of katerina batzel. we voted in favour of the report, however, because it at least highlights the unsatisfactory state of affairs. i'd like to warn those who see today's agreement as a solution to the problem. i believe we will return to sugar and that the result will be closer to the needs of our farmers.
in writing. i love a secular act. it doesn't matter what kind of business a layman is in with ideological blinders on. the result is always the same. black and white depictions of reality, enthusiastic conclusions detached from the realities of this world. in some fields, there are also huge costs and 'unexpected problems' in implementation. particularly fascinating are the speeches by some of my colleagues in such a compelling area as biomass and biofuels. the fact that transport of raw materials, their processing and distribution of products require a high level of energy is a basic truth proven by practice in this area. to reduce these costs, it is appropriate to build small production units that supply alternative fuels to the surrounding area. i suppose it's clear from these notes that these sources cannot be the energy supply solution. it's a relatively small improvement on today's balance sheet. similar weight is given to rapidly expanding collectors for preheating domestic hot water and some other renewable energy sources. it will be essential for the supply of large cities and industry in the next 10 years, large-scale electricity generation and natural gas supply. if we are to meet the commitments of the kyoto protocol, then it is essential that countries with high gdp growth also build large sources of electricity. and that can only be more nuclear power plant blocks. otherwise, the european union will soon become heavily dependent on imported electricity. it's not gonna change the romantic delusions of the layman.
drafting member of the committee on budgets. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european institute of technology is presented by the commission as a project of a major european institution integrating research, education and innovation and enabling innovative discoveries to be transformed into commercial opportunities. the committee on budgets therefore examined the financing proposal very carefully. unfortunately, the proposal for a blended finance has proved to be fraught with risks and uncertainties. the main problem is that the financing was not explicitly mentioned in the mff 2007-2013. the amount is 308 million. another doubt, about the 1.5 billion, was raised by the proposal to fund the institution from other programmes, mainly from the structural funds and the seventh framework programme for research. although a number of discussions with the commission and the council have taken place since the budget committee's opinion was adopted, the financing of the institute has not yet been satisfactorily resolved. the so-called fresh money could, however, come, as already indicated, only in the context of the revision of the financial framework. of course, we will not know how the eit will perform and succeed until it is established. however, it must also prove its viability by attracting private money, as proposed by the commission, and this can only be achieved on the basis of the quality and timeliness of the projects and the success of the results. and i would really like the institute to do that.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union is increasingly dependent on traditional energy supplies, particularly oil and natural gas. in order to limit and reduce this dependence, many important measures need to be taken. for example, significant energy savings and increased research in this area are needed. the use of alternative fuels, from wind, water, biomass to nuclear reactors, needs to be increased. territorial diversification of supply sources between more countries and more routes is necessary. all these challenges and challenges cannot be tackled by individual nation states alone. it is becoming clear, and politicians in many eurosceptic countries are beginning to understand, that solutions must be sought together, through common european policies. the same is true of the common european external energy policy. i therefore welcome the saryusz-wolski report as a necessary step and a basis for the debate on the formulation of this policy. the report contains important principles and recommendations that the european union should follow in order to be able to defend the interests of its members unitedly, to be able to speak with one voice, even externally. these principles and important principles include the very important principle of solidarity solidarity in crisis situations. all these principles and principles can be agreed upon. but to fulfil them we also need a new, strengthened contractual basis - in other words, we need a reform treaty. i think that this aspect should also be borne in mind when discussing the formulation of a common foreign policy on energy.
madam president, commissioner, i should like to thank and congratulate you and mr saryusz-wolski for your current work and achievements. allow me today to open a debate on a new proposal, not on a high commissioner but on a whole new issue. let us create a european fund for alternative energy resources. you might be surprised at why i am speaking about this issue. have you ever heard about one terrific night in a frozen us in 1965 which led to the baby boom? you must be able to recall early may 1986 – chernobyl – hours, days and months afterwards. and, commissioner, you probably did not have the opportunity to land and stay in kuwait in 1991 when 300 oilfields were burning. these are all cases of a lack of energy security. why do we have this lack of energy security? because we do not have freedom of choice; we are heavily dependent. as a granddaughter of the founder of čez, i know that we can say that the česká republika is no longer ‘česká’, but ‘čezká’! when you asked for 2020 for 20% of renewables, prime minister topolánek came to us and he told us, i could sign it because it is total nonsense. with this approach, we will stay insecure because we will not have freedom of choice. how to achieve it? of course, not only by external diversification – we europeans have to find our own resources. therefore, using energy tariffs to create a european fund for alternative energy can help us, not to create another lisbon strategy for 2020, but to really reach such people as topolánek and give us the ability to have new resources, so as not to be dependent.
ladies and gentlemen, europe is facing a double challenge. on the one hand, we have aging and demographic decline. on the other hand, hundreds of thousands and millions of people from third countries, both legal and illegal, are knocking on the union's southern and eastern gates. this challenge must be tackled together in the european union. no country, no matter how great, can solve it alone. i therefore welcome the commission's efforts to seek and propose common solutions. solutions, such as preventing illegal migration through frontex. solutions, such as managing legal immigration through a blue card scheme or cooperative agreements with countries of origin. i also welcome commissioner frattini's renewed call today for those european union countries that have not yet opened their labour markets to their fellow citizens from the new member states to do so as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not support the proposal to establish a european institute of technology. of course, like most of you, i want the european union to change so that it produces more inventions, patents and innovations. however, in the light of the experience gained in the debate on this proposal, i do not believe that the establishment of another institution is the right way forward. our universities and research institutes will not receive any extra money, but rather will be competing with other institutions for research grants. and of course, by voting for this honorable assembly, we have not created any new set of scientific supermen. the institute will be run by scientists who will be removed from their existing universities, and i believe that we would do better to allocate the available money, if we have the ability to find it, to research grants to existing top-notch scientific teams.
mr president, i would like to comment on the vote on the establishment of the european institute of technology. i voted in favour because this is the first time that there has been a systematic link between research, education and the business sector. as a major european innovation project, it is beset by problems, in this case, financial ones. the intention to encourage the establishment of the institute and to give it the space to prove the meaning of its continued existence deserves support.
mr president, although the eu treaty guarantees citizens unhindered access to services beyond their country's borders, only a handful of providers and consumers benefit from the benefits of the single market. thus, because of the low level of competition, services at the border remain more expensive and not always well available compared to inland. research shows that the problem is not language barriers but a problematic legal framework. it is not always clear when the law of the country of origin and the law of the home country apply. unfortunately, thanks to the opponents of the country of origin principle, we have missed the opportunity to define this better in the services directive. the report is also accompanied here in strasbourg by an almost panic-stricken fear of mentioning the principle of country of origin, despite the fact that providers of a whole range of professions do not have to know the law of a neighbouring country to provide crossborder services. we will soon have case law that will settle the dispute over when consumer protection is governed by the law of the home country and when it is governed by the law of the host country. in this situation, i consider the lehtinen report to be a great contribution. i believe that we should define the general obligations of providers based on the european standards of conduct agreement. i agree that the obligations of private and public service providers should be the same as regards consumer protection. i also support funding network communications between member states, which will allow both effective supervision and the development of out-of-court dispute settlement. we owe a lot to the european citizens, commissioner, in terms of the conditions for the free movement of services across borders. this report is one of the payments on that debt. the european parliament gives the commission political legitimacy to clearly define the obligations of providers, regardless of their origin. the report by mr lehtinen is a good example of the work of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, when the library of alexandria was burned down during caesar's invasion of egypt, a large part of all the literature of mankind was lost forever. i believe that something like this will never happen again thanks to digital libraries. i appreciate the reporter's work for her comprehensive approach to the subject. i'm from the czech republic, where the digitization of the national library in prague has been going on for some time and successfully. if the states have their national libraries, it is logical that the european union should have a similar institution. and all this with the latest technology. it is not a matter of trying to fulfil the task of european integration mechanically, but something that is practical. lately, there's been a surge in books in geometric order. it is inconceivable to concentrate such a vast amount of literature in one place except through computer technology. the goal of the project is gigantic. this procedure is intended to ensure that the european digital library absorbs digital collections already created, based on works that will not be problematic from a copyright perspective. besides fine print, there will be works in the fields of science, law, journalism and, finally, audiovisual works. creating a system that is so versatile and yet simple enough will be an interesting challenge for digital technology professionals. i look forward to the european digital library going beyond the virtual space of links and complex searching to become the real giant library that we will have, so to speak, at home. of course, there are risks. perhaps digital libraries will further reinforce our reliance on computers and threaten the book market. but i don't trust that much. the classic book is a permanent part of our culture, as much as the theater or the work of art. it offers something that digital libraries can never replace. direct contact with the reader.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mrs descamps and the other members of the committee on culture and education very much for this report, because it is a very important report. the real wealth of europe, you see, is not the euro, it is not our economic progress: it is this heritage, this heritage which, over the centuries, has been created, has been put forward and which represents the real, profound wealth of europe. and the scandal, in a sense, is that this heritage is disappearing in archives, in caves, in places where the public, citizens cannot go, where they cannot touch it, where they cannot understand it, where they cannot enjoy it. the digital library is trying to overcome this barrier. i think this is one of the great advances of europe, and i would like to pay tribute to the national libraries, our national libraries, because they have been at the origin of this initiative, so strong, so important for european cultures. the directors and directors of these libraries have done pioneering work. they realized that there was a symbiosis to be made, a symbiosis between culture, which is the richness of the corpus, and technology, which is a tool for making access to these cultures happen, and the fact that they did this pioneering work, you could say, allows us, in 2008, to have the single portal of multilingual access. yes, yes, yes, i say to those who have spoken about it, we will even have access to luxembourg literature. i am proud because luxembourgish is my mother tongue and therefore the most important language in the world to me, just as every mother tongue is important. so, the works of art, the literature that has been created in those languages, in that way of expressing, that's what you have to access. let us take the luxembourg culture: of course, the luxembourgers have access to it, but do you know that there is a luxembourg culture here? no, you can't! but the one-stop-shop, once we have the digital library, will allow you to understand that, indeed, there is this too. it is extraordinary to be able to have access to these cultures, to be able to share this richness everywhere, including, and i would like to emphasize this, outside europe, because culture does not stop at our borders. culture is sharing and, therefore, it is in openness that we want to create this library and it is interoperability that will be very important, and it will not only be books, but it will also be all other forms of culture: films, music, museum content. we are therefore witnessing an extraordinary cultural opening, which will be multilingual, which will be multicultural, which will really show the very essence of europe, which is this united diversity. of course there are problems to be solved, and the honourable members have made that very clear. there's the funding issue. i call on the member states to follow up their speeches with concrete action. some of them do, and i thank them for that. we will present in 2008 an analysis of what is being done and, therefore, automatically, what is not being done. i think it's going to be very important to move the case forward. of course, we will also advocate for public-private partnerships because it will be essential to advance digitization, which is very expensive, and i also think about preserving fragile content, which is destroyed if we don't take care of it. how many rolls of film do not fall to dust? to preserve this common cultural heritage, well, we need to digitize it before it's too late. i also think, of course, of the problems we have to solve, those of copyright -- it's a puzzle -- those of scientific information. we have the high-level group that is dealing with this and is presenting solutions. mr president, we are here to discuss an extraordinary project which shows the european added value, and i believe that the most beautiful thing is to bring europeans together around their plural cultures, around their plural histories, which are made of beauty, which are made of creativity. it's the best thing we have. let's keep it safe. let's work together so we can share it.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is facing interrelated socioeconomic challenges: the emergence of highly competitive countries, an ageing population, migration, rapid changes in the structure of the labour market, the boom in information and communication technologies. each of these processes has an impact on the quality of education. low-skilled people face increasing risks of unemployment and social exclusion. fair systems ensure that education and training outcomes are independent of socioeconomic background and other factors that place individuals at a disadvantage. the aim is to encourage the involvement of pupils, students and adults from all social groups, as the current situation is particularly unsatisfactory in this area. the report i am presenting to the european parliament recommends that member states make targeted interventions in pre-primary education to ensure social diversity in classrooms and school facilities with quality curricula. skills that are innate or acquired at an early age are the foundation on which subsequent learning is built. investments made during this period have the best rate of return because the fruits of this investment last a lifetime. at the elementary level, i emphasize the negative effects of early categorization of students. on the contrary, i think it's important to tailor the curriculum to different groups of children based on ability within a school. at the secondary level, school differentiation and the possibility of flexible choice of study areas are highly effective. in the context of vocational education and training, i recommend improving access to tertiary education and developing opportunities for lifelong learning. higher education is key to the success of the knowledge-based economy. it should benefit from a higher level of funding than it currently receives. the report notes that free tuition in universities does not necessarily guarantee equity and calls for an analysis of the possibilities of financial incentives and aid that can significantly reduce inequalities in terms of access to university education. education influences economic growth by increasing its human capital, its innovative power and enabling the diffusion of technologies. every additional year of average school attendance increases productivity in the average eu country by a whopping 6.2%, and in the long run by a further 3.1%, thanks to its contribution to faster technological development. increasing the efficiency of education and training will bring a return on investment to individuals and companies of up to around 8% per year. another positive is the reduction in unemployment. in the european union today, the average rate is 12.6% for those with less than a secondary education, compared with 5% for those with tertiary education. moreover, according to a recent commission communication, 75 million people in the european union are under-educated, i.e. 32% of the labour force. in 2010, only 15% of new jobs will be available for this population. moreover, most of them belong to socially disadvantaged groups. education and training policies can have a significant positive impact on economic and social outcomes, sustainable development and social cohesion, while poor effectiveness and equity have huge costs tax losses, unemployment, increased need for healthcare and support from public sources, as well as costs associated with higher rates of socially pathological behaviour. education and training are essential factors for europe's long-term economic growth, competitiveness and social cohesion. in conclusion, let me thank all my colleagues who have collaborated with me in the preparation of this report.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, a fair and efficient system should guarantee that education is accessible to all. the rapporteur states that the situation in pre-school education, where habits and skills for further education are formed, needs to be improved. it calls on member states to step up investment in early childhood education. but what is the reality? in recent years, preschools have been closed in virtually all eu countries. and not just because of the adverse population trends. the committee on women's rights has also noted this. the situation is no different in the czech republic. there's been a cancellation of preschool facilities because they're expensive. municipalities and cities thus try to keep a substantial part of their budgets. business facilities of this type are virtually non-existent. the waiting time for placement in these facilities is getting longer. for example, private nursery schools are emerging with high standards of foreign language instruction and other facilities, but only affordable to well-off families. pre-school education in the czech republic has been and is at a good level, but there is already some inequality. i can no longer agree with paragraph 21 of the report that free tuition at universities does not necessarily guarantee justice. the solution of having students take out student loans and then pay them back means that once again, it will have a greater impact on the poor than on the rich, and it may affect the psychology of young people who enter life with debt. europe is experiencing a wave of immigration. among those who come to us are many children and students. these young people have a considerable potential to help the union in its further development. these people are also on the imaginary starting line, and we should create the conditions for them to be successful in the education system. how can i explain the fact that in the czech republic, since january 2005, a school law has been in force, according to which only foreigners with a permanent residence permit, with a long-term or short-term visa, asylum seekers or asylum seekers or persons with temporary protection can now study. the boundary between children who must attend school and children who must not attend school thus forms a single official decision. it depends on how quickly the person concerned is granted the relevant status. their entrance into life is already so much more dramatic. let us do everything within the union to make it easier for them to join our community. we do not want young people to be drawn into various undesirable social phenomena and activities.
ladies and gentlemen, once again we are outraged by the statistics that say women have better results but are consistently paid 15% less. yes, there's a glass ceiling where men don't like to let women into senior positions. there are also stereotypes, which unfortunately sometimes affect women themselves. we want to change that. but i believe that if you want to make a difference, you should start with yourself. staff statistics for both the european parliament and the commission make it clear that the highest-paid jobs are overwhelmingly held by men. and the lowest-paid ones are dominated by women. many of the polyglot high-achieving college girls work here for secretarial salaries. their higher-paid superiors are all double-qualified. they're men, and they've been here a long time. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the recommendations of the european institutions on gender issues will only be taken seriously once there is a thorough analysis of remuneration in terms of education and performance and a reworking of the pay system and human resource management. otherwise, we are in the position of those who preach water and drink wine to the citizens.
i supported the burma resolution, but i have serious reservations about the compromise text. india's support for reforms in burma should be applauded, and decisive action should be taken against china, which is blocking a un mandate to open negotiations with the military junta. china is the leading country in supporting dictatorial regimes. the union imposed sanctions long ago, so burma is now economically dependent on china. and that's why i'm asking the union to threaten sanctions against china unless they condemn the junta. if we are serious about defending human rights and democracy in the world, we must not hesitate. china is very keen to have good trade relations with europe, and we are keen to respect our values. defending democracy may come into conflict with the economic interests of european investors in china, but only for a while. after all, even for the sake of fair trade, it is necessary to stand firm and not give in. i condemn the shrewdness with which the left-wing members of parliament have approached this issue already at the monday sitting, when they tried to block the vote on the joint resolution earlier this week. it's as if they regret that supporting western europe allowed the fall of the communist regimes in 1968 in eastern europe.
i hope very much that the lisbon summit will bring about a final agreement on the text of the reform treaty. its signature and ratification will end the institutional crisis caused by the referendums in france and the netherlands. reform of the institutions is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the european union's success in a globalising world, but also for its citizens. it is an essential part of the solution, but institutional reform is not the solution. after the entry into force of the reform treaty, we will have a crucial debate on the future direction of european integration. we must find answers to europe's economic, social and security challenges through a thorough review of existing policies. the finality of the european project and the question of the borders of the european union must become the focal point of these debates. the french and dutch referendums and the difficult negotiations on the text of the reform treaty have indicated that the crucial debate on the content of the european project will be much more complex than it has been so far. the proposal by president sarkozy to set up a so-called council of wise men to give the necessary impetus and direction to this debate must therefore be properly and quickly taken up. the council should have a clear mandate, but in no case should it be composed of representatives of the governments of the member states. it should be a small group of prominent academics, prominent businessmen, former diplomats or politicians. they should be people who enjoy natural authority and respect, not officials with mandates from their governments. the aim of the council of wise men should not be to replace public debate, but to catalyse it and to come up with concrete proposals for the future of european integration. mr president, with the reform treaty we are getting the necessary, if imperfect, working tools, and it is now up to us to make good use of those tools. citizens expect concrete, tangible results from the union. our job is to meet those expectations.
ladies and gentlemen, today and tomorrow we have a historic opportunity to influence the decision on the future composition of the european parliament. the report drawn up for us by the rapporteurs lamassoure and severin is of high quality, balanced and responsible. it provides a pragmatic solution which should be readily accepted by the intergovernmental conference and which will not be an obstacle to the adoption of a reform treaty. the proposed distribution of seats in the european parliament is based on the principle of proportionality by descending order of rank. it is a principle of justice and solidarity, which expresses solidarity between large, medium and small states. the proposed solution is also based on the principle of the demographic size of each member state. that too is a just and right principle. however, some meps expressed their disagreement with this solution. they feel that their country has been discriminated against. but i don't see any discrimination here. discrimination and inequality would only be present if, on the contrary, a country with, say, five million more citizens received the same number of seats as a country with five million fewer citizens. i trust that parliament will seize its historic opportunity tomorrow to adopt the lamassoure and severina report by a large majority. to refuse would mean returning to nice. the alternative would be a loss for our colleagues who, until recently, shouted the slogan: 'nice or die!'
president of the council mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a regional and international situation in which a dynamic of peace is emerging for the resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict and the creation of a palestinian state, an opportunity which the international community cannot afford to lose. we are witnessing a key moment which could allow significant progress in the middle east peace process. the ongoing bilateral political dialogue between prime minister olmert and president abbas and the recent establishment of negotiating teams from both sides are courageous and encouraging steps which we support and encourage and which we hope will lead to concrete results to be submitted to the international meeting in the autumn, a meeting which is being promoted by the united states of america. we hope that the current dynamic, which also highlights the commitment of the arab countries, will allow progress to be made towards an independent, viable and democratic palestinian state, which will coexist side by side with israel in peace and security. in this process, the european union, both within and outside the quartet, has established itself as a trustworthy, impartial and committed partner in the success of the dialogue between the parties. we therefore remain committed to the political process, to the mission of laying the foundations for a palestinian state and to supporting the economic development of the palestinian territories. the quartet and the ministerial meeting of the ad hoc liaison committee held in new york on 23 and 24 september respectively underlined once again the international community's support for the ongoing diplomatic efforts. in the final communiqué of the quartet meeting, the union and its quartet partners expressed their concern at the conditions in the gaza strip and stressed the importance of continuing humanitarian and emergency assistance as well as the provision of basic services to the palestinian population. the representative of the quartet, tony blair, also stressed the urgent need to develop the palestinian economy and its institutions, which are essential for the proper functioning of the future palestinian state. the importance of the quartet representative developing a multiannual agenda for the institutional and economic development of the palestinian territories was underlined. this concern, as well as the need to mobilise the financial and technical support of the international community for these efforts, was also underlined by the international donors, who met at ministerial level at the meeting of the ad hoc liaison committee. several international reports show the deterioration of the humanitarian conditions of the population in that territory, a situation which is fuelling poverty and violence, which is fostering radicalism and extremism, a cycle which it is urgent to stop. the israeli decision to declare gaza a hostile territory on 19 september and the envisaged possibility of widening the scope of the sanctions applied to gaza will, if implemented, potentially aggravate the current situation. while recognising israel's right to selfdefence, the european union also stresses the need for the israeli authorities to carefully consider the implications and consequences of their decisions on the lives of the people of gaza. the european union has consistently reaffirmed its full commitment to the continuation of humanitarian assistance to gaza. the union is the largest donor. in 2006, the total amount granted by the union, the commission and the member states amounted to eur 688 million. in 2007, the commission has already made available over €425 million, spread over the areas of humanitarian and social aid, strategic support for state-building and advice on economic reforms. the temporary international mechanism, which has been extended for a further three months until the end of the year, has been a privileged means of channelling donor aid in the face of the complex situation on the ground. the commission also intends to reform aid to the abbas/fayad government to make it more effective and productive. we believe, however, that the european union should not be the only one bearing this financial burden, and it would be desirable if other partners, particularly the arab states, could contribute to this effort and bear the costs of establishing a palestinian state. the eu has stressed the importance of reopening the entry and exit points in gaza in order to ensure humanitarian and commercial flows in accordance with the access and movement agreement. european support also aims to support the private sector, which is the engine of long-term economic development, in particular by providing support to the palestinian government to pay off its debts to the private sector. short-term solutions which should not lose sight of the long-term objective of developing the palestinian economy and finances. the long-term perspective must be taken into account, so that we can gradually move from the current phase of emergency aid to a phase of support for economic development, i.e. the transition from hat to trade.
member of the commission. mr president, two weeks ago i was in new york where there were many meetings of the international community on the question of palestine. there was an important meeting of the quartet, of which i am a permanent member as part of the eu delegation, and an ad hoc liaison committee meeting of the major donors to the palestinians, in preparation for a pledging conference that will probably take place at the end of december, after the international meeting that is now being prepared. the main conclusion for all of us, as the president-in-office has already said, is that there is indeed a crucial opportunity for regional and international partners effectively to support the peace process. i must say that, knowing how difficult this is, i am at least cautiously optimistic about the prospects of a serious and substantive meeting being hosted by the us this november. i wish to thank those who have mentioned the contributions we have made, but let me also say that i have spoken out very clearly to our arab partners, because it is those partners that have not yet contributed in the same way as we have. i have called on them emphatically to do the same for their arab friends. we also stand ready to play our part in the future, and indeed we hope that this international meeting on the middle east will be a next step towards having more ongoing, positive talks and hopefully, at the right moment, a palestinian state living side-by-side with israel within secure borders. i am well aware, of course, that the delivery of humanitarian aid to the gaza strip has become much more difficult. for instance, two projects in the sector of water and sanitation, financed by the commission’s humanitarian office, have had to be suspended. the partners implementing those operations did not succeed in importing the necessary materials, because the importing of items such as spare parts for hospitals and water pumps has been banned. the european commission has not been idle in responding to this situation. on the contrary, humanitarian and emergency aid to the occupied palestinian territory, including gaza, has reached unprecedented levels. we also continue our support for the precious work of unrwa in gaza. commissioner michel has recently deployed new support through the world food programme in order to respond to the basic needs of the most vulnerable palestinians. our direct emergency support to low income and social hardship cases continues through the payment of social allowances. in september we disbursed allowances to 35 000 poor families in the west bank and gaza. this demonstrates the added value of the temporary international mechanism, which is able to operate efficiently throughout the occupied palestinian territory. by september our fuel provision to the gaza strip had surpassed 90 million litres. that fuel provides 25%, or one quarter, of the electricity needs of the local population. for those reasons, i requested the quartet, at the latest meeting in new york, to extend this financial mechanism until december. also in new york, at several meetings and with different interlocutors, i yet again pleaded on several occasions for progress on the access and movement agenda. we are very happy that tony blair is awarding close attention to this, as he wants there to be an economic possibility of development. this, of course, is not possible without freedom of movement and access, notwithstanding the justified security concerns of the israeli government. i believe that much more could and should be done, but that will require more political will than we have witnessed so far. i also agree with parliament that the closure of the gaza crossings has dire implications for the livelihood of an already impoverished population, as well as for the required humanitarian response. the karni crossing point has been closed for almost four months now, so our aid has to pass through karem shalom and sufa. we only see this as a temporary arrangement, firstly because the facilities at those crossings are inadequate and result in extra handling costs – up to 40% of the cost of aid supplies – and secondly because restrictions on the equipment we want to get into gaza create problems for our project work. having said that, our actions must also take into account the illegal takeover of the gaza strip. our policy is consistent with the quartet’s line and the position of the legitimate government of the palestinian authority, and we of course support president mahmoud abbas. on 23 september, we and other quartet partners made our position quite clear. we expressed great concern over the continued closure of major crossing points. we agreed on the importance of continued emergency and humanitarian assistance without obstruction, and we called for the continued provision of essential services. allow me also to refer finally to the situation within the west bank, which should not be forgotten. despite recent announcements made by the israeli authorities about the reduction of checkpoints, the reality on the ground is, unfortunately, quite different: things are getting worse. it is not only that the settlement policy and construction of the security barrier continue, but also that 48 new checkpoints have been installed, according to a recent report by otcha. it is essential that we see progress in the access and movement agenda. otherwise, the chances of a future sustainable palestinian state are being undermined. let me just add that already, with a view to the next foreign affairs council, the preparations for the draft council conclusions emphasise very clearly the dire situation in gaza and underline the importance of uninterrupted emergency and humanitarian assistance without obstruction.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, once again we stand here and we repeat: the situation in gaza is appalling. once again we all agree: something must be done. therefore, it is my honour, on behalf of the ppe-de group, to table this resolution, and i welcome article 5 fully supporting the maryland convention. but, frankly speaking, can i be positive, knowing that we urged you, and i called on you in this place before summer started, to be ready for a humanitarian crisis operation and for contingency planning? many of you thought i was asking for foreign intervention. no! i simply knew that being ready for a humanitarian operation would help us to react in a fast manner when the inevitable situation comes. it is october, and we are not very much farther. of course people in gaza deserve our help: our immediate, short-term quick fix. but for many years of our collaboration in the middle east, we all know well that quick fixes do not count. what we really need here is to solve the causes of suffering of palestinians. many here think – and i strongly disagree – that israel is the only cause of suffering. i was in gaza for the first time in 1990. i also saw hodeida, tanta, benghazi, ismailia, to name just a few other places in the middle east which look very much the same: no occupation, no military intervention. mismanagement, corruption, nepotism, police regimes – these are the pudelskern. we have to name them; we have to focus on how we can help those who suffer from both. we have to have patience to see the truth, to analyse properly and objectively, to design help, to prepare tailored projects, to invest money, to teach and to lead. and to be unforgiving. to be sharp, to be responsible. in gaza, ottomans, the british, egyptians, israelis, americans and europeans are all part of the problem. but the main part is palestinians themselves. we can only help them. they have to stop any use of threats, abuse, violence, terrorism and killing. they have to stop corruption. they have to stop nepotism and pashaliks. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome mrs jensen's own-initiative report because the deterioration in the quality of ground services in air transport has recently become more than urgent and a real achilles' heel. there are, of course, many reasons. i would like to mention the phenomena associated with the increased security measures currently in place at some eu airports, which often border on the humiliation of human dignity and also on the increased risk of transmitting infectious diseases, without any significant impact on safety. i am talking, for example, about requiring women to take off any similar jacket in public, even if the lady is wearing only underwear, passing through a control frame and then standing on the icy floor of the heels, and also digging through passengers' personal belongings without respecting basic hygiene rules. it is clear that if we do not take this into account, demanding better travel culture and also decency and courtesy from airport staff during security checks, civil aviation in the field of ground services will become a sometimes shocking but always at least unpleasant experience.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate our colleague, ms bělohorská, on her report on the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides. i think it has succeeded in producing a document which takes account of and balances the need for sustainable and competitive agricultural production in europe, while at the same time promoting the use of pesticides which has the least negative impact on human health and the environment. i very much welcome the inclusion in the report of an amendment i co-initiated, namely the 'precautionary principle with regard to human health and the protection of the soil and water ecosystem'. like my colleague bělohorská, i regret that although the less important expected outcome of the thematic strategy is to be the reduction of the negative impacts of pesticide use on human health, the health impacts of pesticide use as such are dealt with very marginally in the strategy. in this respect, i believe that there is a reserve for the future for the work of the european commission. in the field of occupational safety and health, i very much welcome the points in the report which point to the need for proper information, but also for appropriate protective equipment and regular checks of application equipment. i think we're getting a tool with many concrete, effective mechanisms for reducing and making safer use of pesticides.
ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to commend the rapporteur for producing a balanced and realistic report reflecting the latest developments. i also very much welcome this initiative of parliament, as it is one of the few reports that specifically addresses conventional energy sources. i am convinced that fossil fuels will continue to have their indispensable place in the energy mix for decades to come and therefore should be given significant attention. renewable energy sources are important, but they cannot replace conventional energy sources. our efforts should, as mentioned in this report, be directed towards developing new technologies, such as green coal technologies, which will enable energy production with less negative environmental impact. however, at a time when energy consumption is increasing rapidly and we do not have the technologies to replace these energy sources, too much unilateral focus on renewable sources could paradoxically accelerate the growth of the union's member states' dependence on energy imports from other countries. as energy becomes the most strategic commodity, the debate about the complete replacement of conventional sources may be popular, but it is also very irresponsible. i consider it a victory for common sense that this proposal pays sufficient attention to nuclear energy. i am convinced that if we are to have a real strategy for reducing co2 emissions, we must not reject nuclear energy, which is undoubtedly one of the cleanest sources of energy. but we cannot be alone in our efforts to reduce co2, we must convince other major powers to do the same. unless similar measures are taken by countries like the united states, china or india, our actions will have no real significance on a global scale, because they will affect about one-seventh of global co2 production. in conclusion, let me recommend to mrs harms that you study the differences between nuclear reactors. because the reactor that exploded in chernobyl and the reactors that are being built in the czech republic are diametrically different.
i would like to make ten comments on mr reul's report, which i consider to be excellent, balanced and which i believe is characterised by the thought of antoine de saint-exupéry, who said that 'it is not enough to predict the future, but it is necessary to make it possible'. and it is in this spirit that this report is written. it calculates virtually all convective power sources, so perhaps just to please my fellow greens, i could supply fox tails and ebony rods. but seriously, i think the whole energy sector is affected. in fact, since ancient times, as professor semyonov's research in the field of traceology has shown, the same laws have been in place as today. that is, on the one hand, people have tried to reduce the energy demand of technologies and on the other hand, to produce more energy. i think it is extremely important today to be able to combine resources well, to be able to diversify imports and to increase the weight of our single european market as a factor of power, so as to ensure the stability and reliability of supplies. of course there are environmental risks, mr reul mentions resources such as the arctic shelves, which represent, according to some estimates, up to 25% of new gas and oil resources, but there is a real need to consider the environmental risks. we will certainly ask the european commission to take measures to reduce the energy consumption per unit of gross domestic product. and also to develop a sensible technology transfer policy. (the president withdrew)
ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that when looking at conventional energy sources, the report makes room for all sectors of the energy mix. we definitely need to increase our efficiency in the use of fossil resources. however, i am convinced that in the interests of sustainable development, of maintaining competitiveness in the broadest sense, and in particular of genuinely protecting the environment and reducing emissions, nuclear energy is indispensable. finally, it is being discussed without any overriding feeling or emotion, even though some of the amendments tabled and, after all, the individual speeches do not bear this out. i am therefore pleased to hear realistic voices from the commission and other union institutions on the need to continue to count on nuclear energy. in many countries, it is a key resource for the energy independence and security that so many claim. so it seems that we're not going to end up chasing quotas and lower emissions percentages, as they say in our country. that means we don't spill dirty water from the bathtub with the baby.
mr president, after the fiasco of the constitution, the democratic principle of decision-making in the european union seemed to be gaining ground again, at least for the time being. we were wrong. very quickly, the very same constitution was returned to the table under a different name. and yet, the authors of the constitution do not even hide the fact that it is the original constitution, only in a slightly different form, in order to avoid the democratic will of the people in the referendum. the treaty, which strengthens the role of unelected officials of the union, thus strengthens the democratic deficit, inter alia by creating 105 legislative and non-legislative competences of the union. in 68 cases, it replaces the right of veto of the member states by a majority decision. it undermines the competence of the member states in the field of foreign policy. it delegates decision-making in the european union to large member states, especially germany, at the expense of smaller countries. a simple comparison shows that it is almost entirely the same federal constitution of europe that the french people rejected and the dutch people buried. it's just amazing how much nerve she has to put herself back on the table under a different orwellian name and with the stone face of a poker player. so in lisbon, a new type of utopian nationalism has won. the european union and pan-european nationalism. nationalism without a real national, cultural and historical basis, anchored only in the long corridors of the brussels offices. the patriotism of berlaymont has triumphed. we who represent countries that have lived under communist totalitarianism for nearly half a century are used to many things. for the arrogance of power and the contempt of the will of the people. but the openness with which the european union today deceives the citizens of its member countries is something we have not seen even in the gdr. at least there, similar attempts were hidden behind the decisions of the party politburo. but time cannot be turned back. citizens want to decide for themselves whether to hand over their sovereign rights to a european superstate that has no democratic or historical basis. that's why i'm calling for a referendum.
ladies and gentlemen, a close reading of the lisbon protocol makes it clear that the heads of state are making fundamental changes to key eu documents. the treaty of reform literally rewrites the treaties on european union and on the establishment of the european community. i would point out that the changes concern not only the influence of the individual states on the union's processes, but also the very basic principles on which the union was founded 50 years ago. the reform treaty deletes the principle of free competition from the basic text and transfers it to an additional protocol. i take that as a profound warning to all democratically minded citizens. ladies and gentlemen, if the project of european union is to be credible, the reform treaty must pass through referenda in the member states. politicians should put aside arrogance and comfort. they must explain the lisbon decisions to the citizens and get them for them. otherwise, the scissors will continue to open between the citizens and the eu's political elite. not only will this not lead to prosperity, but it will also deepen the democratic deficit of the union as a whole.
mr president, as a former member of the convention on the future of the european union, as the only member of the european parliament who was also the negotiator of the mandate and as, it must be said, a fundamental opponent of the euro from the very beginning, i can say that common sense has won at least to some extent in lisbon. the concept of the eurosystem was wrong from the start, it is good that it was abandoned and i am glad that my country has also contributed to this. the european union is not a state, it will not be a state and therefore cannot have a constitution. it must be based on an intergovernmental treaty, where the member states, the nation states, remain the cornerstones of the whole european construction. as for content, each of us has likes and dislikes. in any case, i like the strengthening of the role of national parliaments or even national executives in the form of so-called two-way flexibility clauses. i certainly don't like the reduction of the national veto, but as a realist, i know we've reached the limits of what's possible. but the other thing is that for the first time in the history of the european union, an artificial, green table concept has been brought to life and has had to be reworked to some extent. this gives me hope that in the future the european union will be able to turn away from concepts that have not proved their worth, and that is, in my view, the fifty-year-old and now outdated federalist model, and that it will be able to embark on the path of a genuine, flexible, decentralised, intergovernmental organisation capable of meeting the challenges of the 21st century. i hope, mr president, that the european parliament will not succumb to the temptation to revive a constitutional idea which is now dead, because that would prove that it is completely detached from reality.
commissioner, i am also concerned that people are exposed to health risks, for example when they spray their fields, and that pesticide concentrations are increasing, particularly in greenhouses, because of the growth of plant resistance. there is no doubt that we need to modernise the rules for the safe use of pesticides in europe. i regret, however, that populist proposals such as a total or local ban on pesticides throughout europe have been born in the workshop of the greens and the left in this parliament. it's totally irresponsible. they are plant medicines for plant diseases, and banning them would be the same as banning medicines for human medicine. both are poisonous, of course, if misused. that is why it is so important to focus on standards and education rather than on scientifically unfounded, over-arching and disproportionately bureaucratic measures. my colleagues, my common sense has led me not to support most of your proposals in the package. and i think that mrs klaß's proposal, which has been approved, is not entirely successful.
mrs ria oomen-ruijten has done an extraordinary job in finding a way to reach a compromise text on a subject which is so divisive in this parliament. i am convinced, however, that in the future we should abandon the adoption of resolutions and reports in which we seek compromise at the cost of not speaking out on the key, contentious issues. we are sending signals to turkey through our efforts to unite, which do not adequately reflect the diversity of opinion that exists in this parliament and among the european public regarding turkish membership. i do not hide the fact that i consider the opening of accession talks with turkey to be a fundamental mistake. but i am aware and respect that not everyone in this assembly shares that view. the european public is also deeply divided and polarized on this issue, which is crucial for the future of european integration. it is our duty to reflect on this polarization. i would therefore welcome it if in future we made clear in our resolutions and reports to turkey and the european public how divided parliament is on the key issues concerning turkey's possible membership of the european union. if compromise is welcomed on many of the other issues we are discussing here, turkey's membership and our relations with it will not tolerate compromise. let us therefore change the paradigm let us not produce reports and resolutions that try to create the appearance of consensus and unity, but let us show by supporting or rejecting clearly formulated positions that we are divided on the issue of turkey's membership. it is a question of our responsibility both to the citizens and to turkey, which does not deserve that we deliberately conceal the truth from it. i am sure that the turkish people would much rather welcome a message of disunity than a cover-up of the reality that europe and our parliament have been demonstrating for a long time.
ladies and gentlemen, if we are to survive in the global reality, it is necessary for the union as a strong group and russia as a great power to better integrate their economies. only then will they be able to successfully withstand the inevitable political pressures that can drive this partnership apart from reason. now the reality is that if you take out the energy from the trade relationship, russian exports to the union are about as big as those to morocco or argentina. i therefore support the call of trade commissioner mandelson, who has asked both the union and russia to stop behaving, and i quote: 'like two cities connected only by narrow roads and gas pipelines'. i believe that both partners must focus on building long-term, mutually beneficial economic and trade relations and not succumb to short-term political tact. i believe it is in the interest of the citizens of the union that it should act in a united way towards russia, which is not happening now. we should push for a more stable business and political climate in russia, which would include fewer import barriers and create more space for investors from the european union itself.
ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the union's relations with russia is one of our most frequent debates. but i keep hearing the same clichés, whether motivated by intent, misunderstanding or ignorance. but we can't deal with russia as anything other than a partner, whether we like it or not. and if we do not seek common words and take gradual steps to improve relations, the union will pay more than russia. it's not about turning a blind eye to problems, but seeing reality and measuring it with the same yardstick. the fact that russia is now economically stronger and therefore more confident is simply a fact, that they are defending their interests is the same thing that the united states and others are doing. we need a sober approach, which is why i am glad that by postponing the resolution we have given our representatives in the ep a free hand for the summit in portugal. today's russia is not the soviet union, and i say this not only from my own long experience of working in this country, but also, for the sake of curiosity, from the words of the head of american diplomacy.
ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with minister antunes that the relationship between the eu and russia is much stronger and more solid than it might appear at first glance. we share a common interest in a strategic partnership with russia. we are, after all, on the same continent, we are economically interdependent with russia, and without cooperation we cannot solve any serious international problem. whether it's global warming, the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the conflict in the middle east, kosovo, or whatever. in other words, a strong, comprehensive and balanced neighbourhood between the union and russia is essential for the stability, security and prosperity of europe as a whole. however, in cultivating and strengthening these relations, we should not forget the fundamental values on which the european union is built, namely the fundamental values of human and civil rights, democracy and the rule of law. i believe that these values need to be reminded of by our russian colleagues now, in the context of the upcoming elections in russia. at the forthcoming mafra summit, the union should also remind our russian partners of the principles of transparency and reciprocity in economic relations. yes, european markets should remain open to russian companies. however, russian markets should also be fully open to european firms, including energy markets and firms.
in writing. it can reasonably be assumed that the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters, as submitted for a second reading (council common position), will contribute to enhancing legal certainty for both natural and legal persons in the member states. the service and receipt of the abovementioned documents is, as is well known, a serious problem with a significant impact on the judicial process and on civil and commercial relations. i believe that the european parliament's recommendation is consistent with the efforts to produce good quality legislation at community level.
in writing. as regards the agreement between the european community and the republic of macedonia on the surrender and readmission of persons, which is subject to the approval of the european parliament, i consider that, whatever the importance of this agreement and similar agreements with the western balkan states from the point of view of strengthening the rule of law in general and combating crime, the problems associated with illegal migration should be tackled primarily by economic and political means. i would also like to stress the important point mentioned in the report in question, namely that the implementation of the agreement will impose a significant financial burden on macedonia and the other western balkan countries. given the economic situation of these states, it is essential that the community should provide them with adequate and effective assistance, particularly financial assistance.
we all want to breathe clean air and stop the melting of the glaciers. at the same time, we need more and more energy despite energy conservation programs. also at stake is europe's political dependence on asian oil and gas imports. so we're investing in the development of renewable energy and we're addressing the safety of nuclear power plants, and in particular the storage of spent fuel. we can use up to 14% of the clean resources. but we cannot ignore the fact that 32% of resources are fossil fuels, which employ 300,000 people and pollute the air considerably. i therefore welcome and support mr reul's report on conventional sources. i agree with him that we should re-evaluate investments and also modernize technologies that can increase the efficiency of energy production from fossil fuels and, most importantly, reduce emissions in principle. we got a lot of catching up to do.
today, we've mandated the automotive industry to develop engines that reduce co2 emissions below 120 g/km. today it is 157 g. some applauded today, but i warn that the reduction of emissions is being held back by the fact that people are driving more and more, and mainly in old cars. double-checking the advertising won't solve it. we all know that most people prefer the price of a car to the ecology. prices, but also emissions are rising because we've ordered more safety measures for cars. colleagues, until safer, greener cars and cheaper driving are available, the share of car transport in emissions will not be reduced substantially. so i'm not applauding us today. the committee's report and the commission's strategy are not comprehensive. i therefore supported the other proposals concerning fines for exceeding emission limits, and in particular tax measures and fleet renewal aid.
i voted against the report on the community strategy for reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars, although for different reasons than those mentioned here a moment ago. i voted against because we are moving away from the strategy of an integrated approach contained in previous strategy papers and are shifting the whole burden of reducing co2 emissions onto the european automotive industry. i also object to the call for a mandatory 20% advertising space. it's a dangerously close resemblance to the harmful effects of smoking. all this is becoming a carbon reduction dogma and the incorporation of this dogma into future binding legislation will mean a reduction in our competitiveness.
ladies and gentlemen, serbia has undergone significant and i am convinced successful changes over the past year. the difficult and painful process of dissolving the union of serbia and montenegro has been successfully completed. parliamentary elections were held in a free and fair manner and a new pro-european government was formed. there has been solid and much-needed economic growth. after a 13-month break, the negotiations on cooperation and association between the serbian government and the european union have been resumed. there is a real hope that a stabilisation and association agreement could be signed in the near future, which would represent a significant step towards serbia's full membership of the european union. however, as has been said several times today, the precondition is serbia's cooperation with the icty. i believe that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, when carla del ponte visits belgrade, at least some of the obstacles will be removed, such as full access to archival documents in certain ministries. i shall not be commenting on kosovo in my short speech today because we are discussing the report on serbia. i would just like to commend serbia's active and responsible approach, its cooperation in regional initiatives such as the stability pact and cefta. this cooperation demonstrates serbia's clear interest in developing and maintaining good relations with its regional neighbours.
africa was the bad conscience of europe because of colonial policy. today we're trying to help developing countries to enter the globalized world. that's why global challenges are at the forefront of our relationship. in addition to disease, hunger and water scarcity, there are also security, trade, migration, brain drain and climate change. our responsibility is to look after the responsible decision-making of african institutions based on democratic principles, in addition to charity. in this light, i consider commissioner mandelson's development strategy to be dangerous. she's too focused on the pacific trade. ladies and gentlemen, we must insist that the commission dedicate its capacities to the human rights agenda. without it, democracy in africa and elsewhere has no chance. i am concerned about the fact that the ideology of the former communist bloc is still firmly entrenched in africa and the influence of the totalitarian, chinese, market model is growing, which extracts resources from africa and takes jobs from africans. i congratulate mrs martens on the comprehensive and balanced definition of the new strategy in her excellent report today. we must also take care of its financial framework and learn to evaluate results through indicators. furthermore, it seems to me that the commission is not communicating enough to europeans about the importance of working with the african continent, which is the european union's closest neighbour. i hope that the december summit in lisbon will adopt, on the basis of today's report, a new vision of the relationship, also based on a human rights agenda. in conclusion, let me say that the summit will be very important for the shift in european-african relations and that is why i do not like very much that the czech republic and the uk want to block this pan-african summit because of the participation of the dictator from zimbabwe. but of course, we must reject and condemn his involvement in any way.
ladies and gentlemen, in my recent meeting with citizens in the czech republic, i was reminded that there are people who still have problems with the unresolved unified legislation within the european union member states. this is an assessment of the facilities available to disabled citizens when travelling outside their own country. i have already said this year in parliament that the unification of legislation, which would allow people with different degrees of physical and mental handicaps to receive a single document entitling them to benefits throughout the union, would make it easier for them to exercise their right to free movement of persons and thus to participate more widely in our society. another problem that has been raised by citizens and deserves attention is the issue of the length of time for calls for projects to receive funding from the european social fund. i appreciate that the money from the fund goes to those in need, but to be able to process and submit a project from the start of the call to its end on time is, in the opinion of the organisations representing disabled citizens, sometimes a superhuman feat even for a healthy person, let alone for disabled citizens. i know that the proposed treaty on the reform of the european union better reflects the situation of people with disabilities, but it will not solve everything. so we need to consider whether these people deserve our increased attention. where's the line between healthy and sick? who receives help and who gives it? we can be on the other side one day.
ladies and gentlemen, the final decision to join the schengen area of nine member states of the european union was also welcomed by the citizens of the czech republic. in addition to the official changes in the security system and border protection, the free movement of goods and people will also bring some surprising complications. at a recent meeting of the regional authorities of southern bohemia, bavaria, and upper austria, some experts mentioned that the so-called no-fly zone of the šumava national park could become a new obstacle on the former borders. some tourist routes from bavaria end at the border of the no-fly zone and strict environmental laws do not allow them to continue on czech territory. our borders with the federal republic of germany and austria were at one time a not-so-distant part of the iron curtain that almost imperviously separated communist totalitarian regimes from the democratic world. now we can look forward to a situation where instead of the iron curtain, the people in our region will be separated by the green curtain.
madam president, commissioner, allow me to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the great amount of work they have done on the proposal under discussion. i regret to say that i nevertheless share the view of the committee on legal affairs, which has called on the relevant committee to reject the commission's proposal. the committee's arguments are sound and persistent despite the substantial changes made to the proposal in recent months. indeed, land has no cross-border effects and should therefore remain under the legal competence of the member states. therefore, despite the positive changes that have been made, the legislation presented continues to be a breach of the principle of subsidiarity and, from the point of view of proportionality, we can also speak of a waste of resources to secure such legislation. in addition, it must be taken into account that there are a huge number of soil types in the european union, which are used in very diverse ways. it is true that the directive before us today can rightly be described as a flexible framework directive. it is also true that the philosophy has changed and that the directive is binding, but the results, form and methods are left to the member states, and it is very positive that the legislation of the countries already in force in this respect does not need to be changed. this is how we really moved towards the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. the positive impact of the proposed form is to put pressure on those member states which have an insufficient level of legislation on soil protection. but the question is whether this is the best form of pressure on such states. in summing up all the pros and cons, my conclusion is that there is no need to adopt the proposed directive. member states can be full guarantors of soil protection. in conclusion, let me quote the words of a french philosopher who once said that if a law does not necessarily have to be written, it should not be written.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was very happy to support mr schmitt's report on the role of sport in education, particularly because sport and physical activity can make a significant contribution to combating the negative trends affecting health. i also support the modernisation of physical education activities, in particular to ensure a balance between physical and mental activities in schools. i support investments in quality sports facilities and appropriate measures to make sports facilities and school curricula accessible to all students, including students with disabilities. we're creating the conditions for every student to have the opportunity to participate in a variety of sports. other positive steps include increasing the time allowance for physical education in schools and recognising institutions and organisations that contribute to better integration of sport activities into schools and pre-school facilities. i would like to thank my colleague schmitt for a very well-prepared report.
mr president, the european parliament has decided, in addition to the kyoto protocol, to include aviation in co2 emissions trading. aviation, with only 3 percent of its emissions, has doubled in 15 years. europe is once again confirming its leadership in the fight against climate change, and the challenge is to make it balanced. it is right that some of the allowances are auctioned and not distributed, this will also allow the development of young companies. the proceeds of the auctions should be used for the development of technologies to reduce emissions in aviation and not for other purposes. the big reserve for reducing emissions, as we all know, is also in integrated flight control. i was campaigning for the same start date for long-haul flights as for intra-european flights. the commission must get third countries to join by the end of 2011. i consider this to be a necessary condition for equal competition between all operators in european skies, regardless of the address company. to reduce global warming by two degrees by 2020 is to convince the rest of the world to do so. how that will play out will be revealed at the upcoming intergovernmental conference in bali.
the history of the enlargement of the schengen area is the history of applying double standards, double standards, if you will. in 1995, when three new member states joined, they were told that they had only to meet certain formalities, while in 2004 the new member states were subjected to a series of humiliating control and evaluation procedures. it took three and a half years. i would like to say that there were also some obstructive voices, particularly from germany and austria, who said that it was not possible to extend the existing schengen information system to new countries. this was finally overcome thanks to the portuguese presidency, which deserves a huge thank you for having overcome these obstructive votes. now sas for all meets all the requirements. the new member states are prepared to ensure that the schengen area is sufficiently secured. although some open issues remain, such as data protection, or securing space in the new member states against the importation of toxic waste, as in the case of shipments of toxic waste from germany to the czech republic, i believe that all these problems will be overcome and that europe will not be turned into a closed fortress, but will remain open to cooperation with other nations from central, eastern and south-eastern europe. without eastern europe and the balkans, europe is not and cannot be complete.
the commission and parliament have already given the green light to a proactive immigration policy and, above all, a common policy, albeit unpopular. but for an ageing, rich europe, immigration is a reality. we know that the illegal form reduces the gdp of many countries by up to 20%, while their economic growth limits the shortage of skilled workers. it is time to strengthen international coordination and agree common rational rules. i believe that the euromed ministerial conference in the algarve next week will go the other way and not only discuss but agree on common steps to manage migration and propose measures to mitigate the impact on transit countries. we need to negotiate international commitments with third countries to protect the lives of migrants risking escape by sea. the situation of mediterranean countries facing a disproportionate influx of migrants into the eu as transit countries is a serious issue and requires specific action. i stress here that the forthcoming conference can count on us taking this very seriously as our common concern for decent detention facilities for immigrants from third countries as well as the fight against the phenomena that cause mass migration. we must protect the lives and dignity of migrants. i would also welcome a clear statement from euromed that blue cards for the regulation of skilled immigrants are not a threat to europeans, but rather an opportunity offered by globalisation. the union headquarters' opposition to the blue cards is an irresponsible, populist, even xenophobic gesture. not legal, but illegal migration is the cause of dumping in the european labour market. commissioner frattini wants europe to be a magnet for skilled workers. we will lose them to the americas, where 55% of them go every year, to europe today it is only 5%. i believe this is the right strategy for the eu's place in a globalised world. legal migration is a mixed bag with illegal migration. the success of a coherent, safe and common migration policy will be a test of the eu's maturity.
ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a quote written by johann wolfgang von goethe over 150 years ago, and still valid today: "an earthquake is not to be disputed". but as mr vakalis' report points out, we must learn to live with earthquakes and prepare for them. i would like to thank my colleague for the specific guidance this report gives us and for showing us the way forward. there is no question that earthquakes are destructive. geophysicists and historians estimate that since the dawn of civilization, earthquakes have killed 150 million people, and half of mankind now lives in seismically active areas. in europe, earthquakes are not always catastrophic, but they are still a warning to be aware of. even an earthquake greater than 5 on the richter scale can be dangerous because it causes loose objects to fall, bags to fly off roofs, disruptions to the tectonics of buildings, and disruptions to gas and electrical lines. i am personally convinced that the steps we have taken in the past in the field of eliminating the negative effects of earthquakes are right. the introduction of a common emergency number, the building of integrated rescue systems, the promotion of international cooperation and the exchange of information between rescue services are all positive steps. these steps should be followed up and continuously strengthened, in particular, cooperation between neighbouring regions and states in the field of emergency services, improving the qualifications and skills of civil protection professionals, making widespread use of information technology, and promoting the organisation of exercises and simulations of possible disasters. but rather than setting unrealistic goals, building common institutions or harmonising legislation, we should focus on the fundamental shortcomings of the existing system. finally, we must realize that earthquakes are one type of natural disaster, like floods, fires, or a debilitating drought. we should therefore look at the issue of natural disasters in a comprehensive way.
mr. chairman, i greatly appreciate the professional level of mr. cornillett's report on humanitarian aid. the need for such aid is not diminishing, the frequency and scale of natural disasters are increasing, armed conflicts in developing countries are not disappearing, and their character is changing. humanitarian workers are often subject to attacks and other violations of international law. 40% of all global humanitarian aid is provided by europeans, either directly or through states or the european union. last year it was 2 billion euros. this is enough to make us strive to deliver this aid more efficiently, we know it should be systematic and well coordinated with other actors. i share the view that humanitarian aid should also be linked to development aid and should be accompanied by political and diplomatic activities, in particular to protect humanitarian workers and to ensure that they reach the sites of intervention. interestingly, surveys show that nine out of ten europeans support the provision of humanitarian aid, and half of them believe that the provision of aid at union level is more effective. it is therefore logical that this year humanitarian aid has been elevated to a european union policy with its own rights. but it's also a big commitment. we have to be aware that humanitarian aid is not a solution to a crisis, it should not affect local politics and trade, it should be independent of political circumstances. i therefore fully endorse the principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality, independence, urgency and efficiency. i also support the idea of a central emergency fund, because disasters require rapid response, and in particular i support a common european union needs assessment framework.
commissioner michel and mr. cornillett, thank you for your work. ladies and gentlemen, a very necessary and valuable piece of material is devalued in its name. the european union is only half of europe geographically. or has anyone already discussed the commission's proposal with european countries outside the european union? at least with russia, ukraine, turkey, kazakhstan, serbia, belarus and so on? of course not, i'm afraid of that. i therefore recommend that such negotiations be initiated immediately. yes, i am in favour of passing this very nice, very necessary resolution. how are we going to support its implementation in the prisons of our transatlantic allies in guantanamo or afghanistan? or do we agree with their approach to deepening the transatlantic partnership? yes, the resolution is necessary and right. but let us also think about how we can make sure that humanitarian principles are recognised and put into practice by our partners beyond the great lakes. otherwise, in a lot of cases, we're gonna be solving problems that someone else started.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express my disappointment with the final wording of the joint motion for a resolution. my disappointment is twofold. firstly, it is a pity that it took so long to reach agreement and that the agreement of a certain majority was reached only at the last moment, under pressure of time and, in my view, at the cost of too great concessions on the essential questions. secondly, my disappointment is that the proposal does not reflect the european interest, as the title of the document indicates, and, more importantly, does not reflect the interest of the majority of the citizens of the european community. these disappointments are based on an analysis of the text of a possible joint resolution which completely fails to acknowledge the negative effects of globalisation and in fact offers citizens nothing but a guide to dealing with globalisation in the same way as with floods. in my opinion, neither globalization nor floods are to be loved, much less tolerated. it is normal to try to influence these processes, to prevent their negative effects. but this is not what the proposal contains, nor does it even offer a model of global sustainable development. our political group's proposal focused in particular on the following: fighting poverty, as statistics show that 80 million people in the european union have a net income of less than 60% of the national average; stressing the need for more effective means to guarantee citizens' rights, such as access to quality and well-paid work, minimum social standards; on the lisbon strategy, stressing the need to develop a new integrated strategy for sustainability and solidarity to replace the current document and to provide effective tools for implementation. some political groups agreed yesterday on a joint motion and completely rejected our group's motion. they have made it clear that they put economic issues above social rights and justice. for the reasons stated above, our group will not support the motion.
(the beginning of the speech was not heard) to strive for europe to have the strongest possible position on the world market. but that requires the completion of the world trade agreement, the reduction of subsidies to european farmers and the reduction of us tariffs. furthermore, it is necessary to be much more forceful in the wto towards china and to systematically use anti-dumping measures. to succeed in globalisation, it is also necessary to remove the burden of excessive regulation on smes. this is what the barroso commission promised, but it has remained at the beginning of the road. last but not least, the union's strength would be enhanced by its enlargement to include turkey and ukraine and by a proper economic partnership with russia. immigration policy is unhealthy. europe should be transformed from a destination for the poor to a destination for the brains that are now leaving for china and the usa. most importantly, if we are to truly rise to the challenges of globalisation, the union must be a unified voice on the international stage, or else it will be laughed at. i hope the heads of state will reach the same conclusion in december. let me make one more remark. my colleague schulz was talking about the wild west capitalism that is rampant in the financial markets. this was the rhetoric of the most hardline communists, who called the financial capitalists "wall street murderers". we all know what happened to the eastern bloc economies with that approach.
europe has done a great job of adapting to the modern age, but in the face of globalisation, we are desperately looking for the right strategy to maintain our key position. the first step is to understand that the lisbon strategy lacks an external dimension and that it will have to become part of a more complex economic and social strategy. it should give a true name to the contradiction between a highly regulated european economy and liberalised world trade and give us the tools to reduce this contradiction, which is a serious competitive disadvantage for europe. the reasons that justify regulation within the single economic area are equal competition and high consumer protection. both are, however, being disrupted by an increasing influx of cheap goods from third countries and counterfeits. we are faced with such daunting tasks as checking the gigantic volume of imported goods that do not meet european safety requirements. the key point in our comprehensive strategy must be to press for the convergence of regulatory mechanisms. that is, the creation of global rules and standards, not just technical, but also environmental, social and safety. one way to help is to insist consistently on the respect of human rights in third countries. freedom of speech will enable their citizens to enforce higher standards of work and life, and thus facilitate convergence from the other side. our new energy concept is well suited to the challenge of globalisation, it is a good example. but we need to review other policies to make them part of an adequate comprehensive strategy to cope with globalisation. we have to get rid of relics like the farm policy. if we are to remain a major player on the global stage, we must not only react, but actively co-create global convergence rules on both sides, outside and inside the eu. yes, europe also needs to change a little. otherwise, we'll be like frogs in a boiler. the caterpillar is unable to detect the boiling of the water and jump out of the boiler in time.
mr president, parliament once asked the commission to submit a directive on soil protection, and commissioner dimas delivered it to us after five years. it's no secret we don't need it anymore. we have other guidelines to protect specific land problems as they cross state lines. the commission ignores that many countries and the czech republic is an example have their own laws and good systems that protect the soil from further erosion and degradation. what some countries, including flanders, need is a common strategy and strengthened coordination. thanks to the enormous work of the rapporteurs, parliament was able to vote on a revised directive, which may not do too much harm, because it will at least allow the national regulation to be retained where it already exists. in his speech yesterday, the commissioner showed his lack of understanding for the sensible solution that the rapporteur had been so devoted to negotiating in parliament. by ignoring signals from parliament, the commissioner is helping to bury his own directive. he asked for my vote to reject his report. i trust the council will do the same.
i voted clearly against this resolution for the eu-russia summit. the russian kgb regime needs legitimacy. i refuse to be a puppet and i am ashamed of all those who, out of ignorance, cowardice and, above all, small economic benefits, make this puppet of russia. russia is not a partner of europe. i completely reject the notion that russia is our partner in the matter of kosovo's independence. why does this house give him so much weight? russia continues to dump chechen bodies from helicopters over chechnya, imprison thousands of regime opponents, continue illegal trials of other russia politicians, continue illegal imprisonment of khodorkovsky. who and when will investigate the death of anna politkovskaya? when will russia stop threatening human rights activists? how come we're not invited as observers to the russian parliamentary elections? why does putin not want us, partners? they tolerate us in morocco and palestine. this house considers a partner someone who violates the basic principle of solidarity, help poland in the matter of free exports, equal conditions of export. russia is holding us hostage. we are against ourselves if we do not support a democratic stable russia and instead support a secret service regime. and finally, our country has the right to freely contribute to the security of europe, to defend it against a possible attack by iranian forces. how can we appeal to america not to threaten the peace of europe with its policies while allowing the russians to more than obviously support the iranian regime? this resolution is a sign of weakness and meanness. the one we know from the czech republic doesn't really pay off against russia. out of respect for the legacy of czech political prisoners, all those who opposed the occupation, i strongly reject the resolution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the long experience of many countries has shown that the best and most effective way to prevent extremism, instability and chaos is through the rule of democracy and the rule of law. from this perspective, president musharraf's decision to declare a state of emergency is a huge mistake and a mistake. pakistan is not a country without democratic traditions, on the contrary, as shown by the courageous and responsible stance of pakistan's judges, lawyers, journalists and other representatives of non-governmental organizations, civil society in pakistan has deep and strong roots. but this civil society needs help. we therefore call on president musharraf to lift the state of emergency, release all political prisoners and restore all constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms, including freedom of movement, expression, association and assembly, so that genuinely democratic, free and transparent parliamentary elections can be held early next year.
mr president, i should like first of all to congratulate the commission on having collaborated on such a unique concept as the enp. now finally we have a clear distinction between the enlargement instrument and the enp. europe is in a very peaceful process. so far it is extremely successful. the enp represents a necessary amount of creative thinking which will guard and protect peace and stability for our kids. energy security, immigration and counter-terrorism are all core issues. the more clear, precise and analytical and the less political that we are, the better we are equipped to face these threats. allow me, then, to use this particular context and to ask about the legal basis. some action plans will expire soon. specifically i point to the eu-israel action plan, which is due to expire in april 2008. the german presidency created the reflection group. its main task is to come up with clear working action for the future. in between, madam commissioner, your work, our work, is very positively reflected in israel itself. the council and commission received a non-paper reflecting on the simple fact that israel wishes to enhance our bilateral relations, to have the eu and israel meeting annually, to have regular high-level cooperation. madam commissioner, my question is how the commission will reflect on the israeli non-paper and especially how will the commission work on a new action plan? how will our new action plan or enhanced action plan reflect our concerns – counter-terrorism, the fight against extremism, xenophobia, energy security and of course human rights issues, as well as international issues, the geneva conventions? how will all this be reflected and how we will answer the reflection group and the german presidency?
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join those who wish to congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for the document he has presented. like the rapporteur, i support the view that the production of high-quality and comparable job vacancy statistics is a european priority. i am also convinced that the collection of these statistics at the level of gentlemen's agreements alone is insufficient and that it is necessary to adopt regulations at european level to ensure high quality and comparable information from the member states. that is to say, only the commission can coordinate the necessary harmonisation of statistical information at community level. this is the view i recently expressed in my opinion on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on community statistics on public health and safety and health at work. i was also very pleased with the results of the trilogue between the rapporteur, the commission and the bureau. the compromise proposals which emerged from these negotiations also significantly improved the quality of the document presented. like the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups, i was happy to co-sign them for the gue/ngl. among these compromise proposals, he particularly wanted to highlight the very useful requirement to include data on units with fewer than 10 employees, but also the requirement to distinguish between fixed-term and indefinite-term vacancies, as well as making this information available to as many european citizens as possible. finally, i would like to commend the definition of quality criteria, since only relevant, accurate, up-to-date and comprehensible information on job vacancies can help to combat unemployment in the community.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank elizabeth lynne for a very good report and for the good cooperation. there are many reasons for social exclusion and it would be a great pity if this report were not further developed. in my speech, i want to emphasise the importance of public services that contribute to the eradication of poverty and exclusion. privatization will lead to higher prices and less availability. i regret that we have not been able to get a position to condemn those states that introduce low flat taxes, thus preventing the collection of sufficient funds to ensure the social functions of the state. it would certainly be useful for member states to learn from each other as part of the exchange of information on best practice. however, i would also welcome the exchange of information on procedures that have not worked or have been replaced. i know that this practice does not exist, but it would certainly be useful for the social partners and ngos to oversee that this happens. the key to ensuring that more and more citizens of the member states do not find themselves in often imperfect social networks is to ensure that there are enough jobs with decent pay. it is impossible to tolerate the fact that some working people are often dependent on social support. it is therefore necessary to seek to establish a decent minimum wage in all member states, either by law or by collective agreement, as has been the tradition. the drive for pension reform is becoming very significant. in taking steps to ensure that in particular the basic pillar of public pension insurance is maintained, all member states should respect the relevant conventions of the international labour organisation which they have ratified. the inclusion of disabled people in the labour market is particularly important, and therefore the actions of governments that remove the various incentives for disabled people to increase their employment must be critically assessed. i can name the czech republic for all of them.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, european societies are undergoing dramatic changes. these changes concern the nature of work, modern family life, the position of women in society and social mobility, changing values, societies becoming increasingly multicultural. modern development has broadened people's horizons and lifestyle choices. the member states of the european union are among the richest countries in the world, but new forms of poverty and inequality are also emerging. tens of millions of european citizens are currently living in poverty. social inclusion and social protection are fundamental values of the european union, to which everyone has an inalienable right. however, member states must give greater weight to the fight against child poverty. if we do not make significant improvements in the participation of children from disadvantaged social groups in pre-primary education, we will not reduce early school leaving, we will not increase the upper secondary school leaving rate and thus the acquisition of key competences. a growing number of people will face the risk of social exclusion, unemployment and other social undesirables at great cost to them, the economy and society. the fight against youth unemployment also remains an important task in this respect. in vocational education and training, some programmes need to remove barriers to offer more flexible and effective training, taking into account labour market demand. in particular, we will increase the employment opportunities for disadvantaged people. strengthening social cohesion and eradicating poverty and social exclusion must become a political priority for the european union and its member states.
mr president, allow me to comment on the report by mr carlos coelho, on the proposal for a council decision on the full application of the schengen acquis to the nine member states which joined the european union in 2004. i personally consider this decision to be absolutely crucial. the accession of our countries, including my home country, the czech republic, cannot be postponed under any circumstances. all analyses to date have shown objectively that all of them are prepared to expand the schengen area. thanks to the enormous efforts of the member states concerned, a number of experts involved in the evaluation inspections, police officers, lawyers, officials and others, member states are now sufficiently prepared to apply the provisions of the schengen acquis in a satisfactory manner. i therefore expect that the justice and home affairs council will also express its support for the abovementioned decision on 6 or 7 december this year. the symbolic significance of the abolition of borders, which our citizens associate with the entry into the schengen area, is entirely timeless and can only be compared to the fall of the iron curtain less than 20 years ago.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to share the feeling of celebration that i had today when i voted with you - despite the technical failures - on the report which confirmed the readiness of new countries, including the czech republic, to join the schengen area as early as 2008. i appreciate the commitment and the helpfulness with which the member states and the commission have been engaged in the intensive technical negotiations which make the extension of the area necessary. the large schengen area will undoubtedly be more difficult for internal security in europe, but on the other hand, and i want to stress this now, it represents the ultimate completion and fulfilment of the right of citizens to move freely within a truly unified area. next year, europe will be more united than ever before. the iron curtain is definitely dead. thank you for that.
ladies and gentlemen, on 12 december the president of this parliament, together with the president of the european council and the president of the european commission, will proclaim the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i am confident that the overwhelming majority of members will support this historic document and this historic step in the vote tomorrow. the charter of fundamental rights reflects the moral and spiritual heritage of the european peoples of the european union. it reflects values such as human dignity, freedom, equality, solidarity, the principles of democracy and the rule of law. the individual is put at the centre of attention, inter alia, by the introduction of citizenship of the union in the charter. i am pleased that the declaration of the charter of fundamental rights comes after the enlargement of the european union to include new member states. in a way, the charter will reflect morally, legally and politically the unity of the european union, west and east, north and south. and i trust that the governments and parliaments of poland and the united kingdom will recognize this fact and allow their citizens to join in this historic moment as soon as possible.
ladies and gentlemen, for 13 years we have tolerated a most alarming and unpleasant state of affairs. the commission and the member states are mismanaging taxpayers' money in a bad and illegal way. the report of the european court of auditors clearly shows that the commission and the member states are negligent and do not even know the rules of budgetary expenditure. there are also suspicions of attempts to misuse money from the union budget. in total contradiction to the commission's regulations and national laws, no competitions are announced, reimbursement of ineligible expenditure is requested, beneficiaries are unable to prove the eligibility of overheads or staff costs and controls are restricted. ladies and gentlemen, if this were the way that citizens whose money we so shamelessly squander manage their businesses and homes, the european union would be full of socially excluded homeless people. i therefore ask the commission and the council to come to their senses and start treating taxpayers' money as their own. only in this way can confidence in the process of european integration be strengthened.
i do not share the general enthusiasm here for this text. in the field of human rights, i believe that what moses once told the world in the ten commandments of god must be true. and of course, what's enshrined in the un charter of human rights. our highest value must be the freedom of the individual, which is to be restricted only for reasons that protect the freedom of others. in particular, some provisions relating to social rights are unclearly defined and difficult to interpret. this applies in particular to anti-discrimination provisions, but also to rights such as the self-evident right of the elderly to participate in public life. i believe that the obvious should not be treated by legislation. the provisions concerning workers' rights are more problematic than clear principles. the european union, in my view, is not just an association of wage-earners. the charter then acts unbalancedly by not placing sufficient emphasis on the protection of private property and the rights of owners and entrepreneurs. i do not think, therefore, that the existence of this charter will enrich our lives in any significant way.
ladies and gentlemen, monitoring air pollution and trying to improve its quality is a very necessary and commendable activity. it is not a mistake that some parts of the proposal under consideration are a little too demanding and others are simplistic. more importantly, while the discussion on monitoring and removal of pm correctly shifts the focus from coarse particles via pm10 to pm2.5, monitoring and reduction should also apply to the finest aerosols with a particle diameter below pm2.5. these penetrate into the lungs and have a huge measuring surface, allowing them to absorb large amounts of harmful substances. because these particles don't get trapped in the upper airways, they're potentially very dangerous. despite these reservations, i support the proposal for a directive, as does the gue/ngl group of which i am a member, and i believe that we will soon return to this subject with somewhat more expertise.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the population, housing and housing census, which has been put forward by the commission, is on the one hand a step in the right direction, as are the previous proposals, which dealt with statistics on accidents, occupational safety and health and job vacancies. i also agree with the commission's assertion, which was confirmed, inter alia, by the last census of population, houses and flats for the 2001 reference year, that the collection of data from individual member states on the basis of 'gentleman's agreements' alone is not sufficient to ensure sufficiently comparable results. it is therefore necessary to adopt legislation at european level. provision to ensure that the results of the census are reliable, transparent and sufficiently comparable. on the other hand, i was very concerned about the list of data requested by eurostat from respondents in point 1.3 of the annex to the draft regulation. even if these were only the recommended indicators, i believe that the commission has gone too far in this respect. there is no justification for anyone to be asked very intimate questions about their private life. what struck me even more, and amazed me even more, was the fact that these data were only supposed to be requested from women. i therefore very much welcomed the decision of the employment committee to remove these intrusive and disproportionate requirements from the commission's proposal. i'd say that information probably belongs in a doctor's office. but i trust the anonymity of that data as much as i trust the reliability of a credit card. i think that when we collect any statistical data, we must first of all take into account the protection of personal data, the privacy of individuals and we must avoid unreasonably expanding the quantity of the required tasks. i'll recommend a vote for our faction accordingly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the proposed regulation on the population, housing and dwelling census is a completely new piece of eu legislation in an area that has not yet been covered by any existing legislation. the question is whether such a regulation is even necessary. the commission's argument that comparability and quality of statistics should be ensured is quite convincing, especially in general terms. critical insight, on the contrary, is in place the moment we read the proposed data set to be collected and evaluated. the commission's proposal thus contains a wide range of data whose validity is very difficult to defend. i consider the collection of housing data based on the conclusions of the laeken european council to be questionable. they can only be regarded as an expression of political will and not as a legally binding document. moreover, the union does not have competence in the field of housing and thus the housing statistics obtained, unlike some others, cannot serve as a support tool for the implementation of existing policies. unless, however, the results are intended to serve as an impetus for the launch of a new common housing policy, this would be an abuse of power and a breach of the treaty. the collection of a large body of data concerning the private lives of citizens is completely unjustified. from the point of view of the implementation of common policies, there is no reason for the union institutions to have data on when and how many times a woman has married or how many partners she has had in her lifetime and how long those unions have lasted. it's like trying to play big brother, intruding into people's privacy and unreasonably violating their freedom. if some of the institutions of the union are tempted to do so, it is necessary to intervene and to set clear limits. the committee on social affairs and employment has done so, in my view, by significantly restricting the range of data to be collected, and i congratulate it on that. however, the proposal from my group to delete all annexes containing references to specific types of statistical data seems to me to be the clearest and most transparent solution, and i therefore recommend that you give your attention to and support this proposal.
the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. mr. president, the wine reform proposal is unfavourable and discriminatory for the czech republic. the european union, which has readily accepted the blending of up to 30% water in american wines that are contractually allowed access to the eu market, and which tolerates the artificial blending of acid in sweetened white wines in southern europe, is also proposing a ban on the use of sucrose for northern countries. the use of sucrose has been a tradition for more than two centuries. the eu wants to replace it with concentrated must, which will be readily and excessively supplied by southern european countries. in the conversion, the czech republic receives only eur 88 per hectare of vineyards, while some preferential countries receive eur 245. the european union is trying to introduce a so-called historical principle that will discriminate against new member countries. the czech republic also drinks the wine it grows and produces. it therefore makes no contribution to the surplus of european production. and now the same union wants the czech republic to contribute financially to promoting european wine surpluses in third countries. we therefore call for the allocation of the funds for the wine reform to the national envelopes, to be distributed by the member states themselves according to their needs. the union deals with wine surpluses in two ways. the senseless and uncivilized distillation of wine into an industrial liqueur, or the grape-growing of vines. he's been all over the place, but not where he belongs. because all you have to do is exclude the black-planted vineyards in those traditional southern countries, especially one, and the reform is complete. the size of illegal vineyards is exactly equal to the number of hectares the eu needs to grub up. the eu knows perfectly well, from satellite images, the location of black, out-of-quota vineyards, for example in italy. finally, the reform brings back the favourite theme of the eurocrats, the delegation of powers to the commission instead of the council, the eu's unelected officials. we're taking away the right of small countries to decide. then wine, which has been traditionally grown in the czech republic since the days of the roman legions, will become another product that the european union will deprive it of in favor of the often illegally grown production in the south of the eu. but we're not going to marry this wonderful tradition.
mr president, commissioner, the new rules of the game for the wine sector are certainly necessary. european wine is the last unreformed area of agricultural policy where we apply the principle of the higher the harvest, the more money from brussels. the european consumers are aware of this, and they are increasingly preferring californian, chilean or south african wines to our moravian, czech, french or italian wines. let us therefore promote quality and competitiveness. however, it must not be based on discrimination between some member states and preference for others. if we really want to agree on a reform of the wine sector, it is not possible to agree to the proposed ban on the use of beet sugar for the sweetening of wine. each of our states has different climates and different traditions. in the northernmost european countries, the geographical conditions are diametrically different from those in the south. in my country, we often have to finish the wine because of the colder climate. for over 200 years, this has been the traditional, time-honored way of sweetening beet sugar. the european commission proposes to ban sugar-sweetened beverages and replace them with concentrated wine-based spirits. however, if not subsidized, grape must is at least one time more expensive than sugar, and it is produced only in certain states. in the case of the addition of concentrated grape must or rectified concentrated grape must, this must would have to be imported from abroad and one of the fundamental principles of european wine-making, namely the determination of the origin of wine by the origin of the grapes, would be denied. moreover, this would increase the price of the wine, which reduces the competitiveness of the market. that's discriminatory in my opinion. while the commission is concerned about the sweetening of wine, the ban on acidification, i.e. the addition of tartaric acid, is not a problem for the southern european countries. let us therefore drink wine and realise that the reform cannot be based on the preference of producers in certain countries.
mr president, i am one of those who criticise the weak cooperation between big companies and universities and the fact that the union's research funding is low, with only a third of private funding compared to the us. today, we finally sent out very good news from strasbourg for european research, because we approved a seven-year programme for innovative medicine worth 2 billion euros. but the very form of this venture, which is a public-private partnership, is innovative. it will not only halve the resources but also bring research objectives closer together. i believe this will be a new impetus for knowledge management, education and training. i am convinced that we will stop the declining trend in the efficiency of the european pharmaceutical industry and that the result will be better and more accessible treatments, especially for cancer and alzheimer's disease. thank you to the reporter who led the report to a successful second reading.
in writing. we are currently facing a serious problem of controlling the huge volume of goods imported, especially from asia, which requires the electronicisation and interoperability of customs systems. a paperless environment for customs and trade is already a necessary condition for the performance of the european market, even before the modernised customs code was introduced. i would point out that we need a system that can also detain goods at the union's borders if they do not meet the mandatory european safety standards. the decisions we have approved today will allow for a much more effective control of goods. the single window and one-stop-shop will also provide access to information on international transactions for customs authorities, suppliers, buyers and carriers. the system will no doubt also be used by the state surveillance authorities responsible for checking the safety of goods on the market. the council slowed the start of the new system to three steps after 3, 5 and 6 years. but i fear we need to move faster and i think the council will soon be under pressure to reconsider.
(the beginning of the speech was not heard) and cleaner air for europe is a good example of the union's functionality. the basis for the common procedure is article 251 of the ec treaty. this directive simplifies legislation, replaces several other directives and further establishes limit values for small particulate matter in air, which are the result of non-conflicting agreement between political groups as well as states. moreover, the directive demonstrates a sensitive approach to the division of competences between the union and the member states in this area. i appreciate the work of the rapporteurs and am pleased that we have adopted this modern directive, which simplifies and confirms our high ambitions in this area.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank all those who have worked hard to bring about the outcome of the conciliation procedure, in particular my colleague mr leichtfried and mr propst of easa. i appreciate the ambitious plan of easa to prepare simplification of test procedures for aeroplanes of less than 1 tonne and for aeroplanes of less than 2 tonnes mtom. after the proceedings so far, i believe that the second amendment, including the annexes, will be retained in its present form. i hope that together we will soon open the doors of the lsa category light sport aircraft to manufacturers from the european union countries in the internal market. i do not believe that any of the parties concerned would want to liquidate a promising sector in which a few dozen small and mediumsized enterprises are now operating. we need an agreement on transitional conditions for these companies, based mainly in germany, the czech republic, italy and france, as a matter of urgency. i therefore look forward to the commission and easa representatives showing similar flexibility and vision of the current situation on the world market in this rapidly developing segment, following the welcome of the parliament. i am confident that their decision will promote the development of the light aircraft sector in the european union by using the existing proven test and certification procedures, mechanisms and organisations. i hope that the representatives of the commission and the council, following the lisbon strategy, will help in this respect to further develop this technically and technologically very advanced sector of aircraft manufacturing. imprudent decisions or long hesitations could have fatal consequences for the industry at this stage of development. i look forward to further discussions and a proposal for a progressive reduction in subsidies for small aerospace manufacturers. thank you in advance for your support and understanding on this matter as well. as a sign of good faith, i fully support the compromise that has been negotiated.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my fundamental disagreement with the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 98/71/ec on the legal protection of industrial designs, in general, and without prejudice to the particular problems of this commission proposal. the proposal is an attempt to address competition concerns by limiting the legal protection of spare parts in the form of an industrial design in an unprecedented way. this approach is in stark contrast both to the lisbon strategy and to the generally respected and constantly reiterated trend of strengthening the protection of intellectual property rights, including their enforcement. it has been demonstrated that there is no single economic, legal or employment-related reason why the owners of industrial design rights should be the ones to be restricted in their rights. i also recall the fact that the monopoly resulting from industrial protection is a benefit to every economy and an incentive to further development, as well as the principle that intellectual property rights, including industrial property, including industrial designs, can only be limited exceptionally to the public interest, which does not exist in this case. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. there is sufficient evidence to show that the liberalisation of the spare parts market, which the commission expects, would ultimately harm consumers by placing low-quality and dangerous parts on the market, since if a so-called independent spare parts manufacturer were to produce standard parts of high quality, i.e. technologically demanding, this production would not be economically advantageous for it. the inadmissibility of the draft directive is demonstrated by the curious and incomprehensible statement of the imco committee, which, while supporting the draft directive as a whole, in the spirit of the sacred slogan of liberalisation of the internal secondary market, at the same time stated that 'the abolition of the protection of designs is contrary to the internationally recognised principles of intellectual property protection and would constitute a dangerous precedent for the protection of intellectual property also in other sectors, whereas the european union has committed itself, in particular within the wto, to urging the adoption of a regime for the protection of intellectual property rights in third countries, thus putting an end to imitation and counterfeiting'. there's really nothing to add to that.
ladies and gentlemen, we often discuss here what we can do to bring europe closer to its citizens and make it more democratic, but we do nothing about it. tomorrow, the prime ministers will sign the reform treaty and declare in advance that they do not want a referendum. the sad thing is that this parliament applauds them all. it's the height of arrogance and contempt for the voice of the citizenry. i feel that politicians are lazy to explain the new treaty, or - and this is even worse - citizens are afraid. politicians are reluctant to explain how the new treaty will change the role of countries in eu decision-making. politicians do not want to tell citizens that they will not have a commissioner in the european commission. they do not want to defend the idea that migration, energy and transport will be decided not by individual countries but by brussels. ladies and gentlemen, if we do not get the citizens to accept the new rules for the european union, we will not explain to them the advantages of integration on the one hand and the loss of national sovereignty on the other, which in some areas clearly accompany the treaty, and the scissors between the political elite and the citizens will continue to open up. that's why i think it's crucial that the new treaty be approved by referendum.
madam chairman, i voted against the bill to liberalize the design protection of automotive spare parts. it's an inconsistent strategy. on the one hand, we are demanding that industry develop ever safer cars and we are also fighting against industrial piracy. and in contrast, today parliament has legalized the making of copies of spare parts allegedly so that they can be cheaper. but consumers will not be sure that the repaired car still meets the original high safety standard. supporters of liberalization, particularly in britain, argue that this will help small and medium-sized businesses, even though most cheap copies of branded parts are now made in asia, not in europe. nevertheless, in the 10 eu countries where the design has not been protected to date, the cost of spare parts is 7% higher than in the other 17 countries. they still protect the design today, as do japan and other major automotive powers. i would like to point out that both passengers and pedestrians will now be at a much greater risk of using non-original parts in the event of an accident because of their inferior quality. unfortunately, this directive is an example of an inconsistent strategy of the european union.
madam president, i also object to the restriction of the industrial legal protection of spare parts. we're seeing an unprecedented intrusion into the area of industrial property rights. in the case of abuse of the monopoly of the holder of industrial rights to manufacture spare parts, ordinary legal instruments such as compulsory licensing may be used. the creation of an industrial design is costly, and therefore legal protection is also economically justified. the commission considers that the annulment will not lead to the liberalisation of trade in spare parts, but more likely to increase the price of the finished products. the producers will respond by compensating for the losses caused by the competition of independent producers on the spare parts market. there is also a legitimate concern that the lower price of spare parts submitted by independent producers will lead to a lack of compliance with safety and quality requirements. the ultimate risk will be to the consumer. that can't leave me alone.
i supported a reform of the wine market which would improve the quality and thus the competitiveness of european wines. this is particularly the case in italy, where illegal vineyards should be cleared and subsidies for overproduction of low-quality wines stopped. the reform must not favour southern producers over northern ones. i fundamentally disagree with the wine-growing in moravia, where what is grown is also consumed and where traditional wine production is of key importance for landscape design and tourism. i protest against the prohibition of the desiccation of wines in central europe, including moravia, without prohibiting the acidification of wines in the south. i don't understand why moravian winemakers would buy expensive grape must from southerners to replace the 200-year-old tradition of sugaring, and change the traditional aroma and taste of their quality wines with grape must. it is contrary to the principles of competition in the internal market and i cannot agree with that. i thank those colleagues who stood with us in the vote today and let common sense prevail. the commission will now have to comply.
we are witnessing how the wine-producing countries of southern europe are fighting tooth and nail against their overproduction of wine, which, at the same time, is pushing quality wine from other member states out of the market through excess subsidies at low prices. what bothers me is that while the european commission is treating wine-producing powers with a glove, it is treating countries like the czech republic with a stern, even harsh, attitude. how else can we understand the proposal to increase the sugar content of the must widely used in the southern parts of the union, which is to be maintained, while the addition of sucrose should be prohibited? i appreciate all the more that the european parliament has taken a responsible approach to the wine reform and has introduced an element of equal and fair treatment. by promoting the sugaring of wine, he went out of his way to help, among others, the czech republic, demonstrated the ability of an unbiased approach and resistance to be influenced by the conflicting concept of national interests. i understand that wine market reform is needed. i'm not questioning its basic objectives, but the way it's being implemented. i insist that the principle of equal and non-discriminatory treatment must be respected.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against mr castiglione's report, as did the other members of the ods from the czech republic. reforms like this will not help czech and moravian wine-making or european wine-making. instead of liberalization and reduction of regulation and bureaucratic burden, which would really help the wine sector, we are seeing the push for more new regulation and more bans and orders. central planning has never produced good results and will not produce good results in the wine sector, which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. the overall drawdown of the globalisation adjustment fund is around 3.6% and concerns only 3 countries, with globalisation affecting more or less all human activities and their consequences. so this low drawdown raises at least two questions. the first is whether the impact of globalisation is so small, and the second is whether we can draw on this fund. in other words, firstly, we can ask ourselves whether we need this fund, and secondly, if we think we do, we need to better define the potential impacts of globalisation and revise the rules for drawing on it so that this fund is accessible and understandable to other countries and their most problematic regions. the clarification of the conditions, including the quantification of economic, social and other indicators, may also contribute to this. the commission's justification of the requests, for example, by 'unexpectedness', is hardly acceptable. i voted against the motion on the basis of the doubts i have raised.
ladies and gentlemen, once again, we are reassured by the fact that the rise of extremism reflects the worsening economic situation and unemployment. but i'm afraid that assessment simply doesn't apply today. the economies of many european union countries are growing, unemployment is falling, but the problems of extremism are not disappearing, they are increasing. the number of racially motivated crimes is increasing, nationalist guards are being created, ss veterans are marching in some states of the union, politicians who speak about jews and roma as being the wounds of society are being glorified. neo-nazis and racists are infiltrating politics and the armed forces. in my home country, the czech republic, we have a prime minister who has made nazi rhetoric part of his vocabulary. last but not least, the fact that the union is almost exclusively a target of poor migration and that no one knows how to deal with it. ladies and gentlemen, no resolution, no words will erase the recently carved swastika on the side of a 17-year-old girl in mittweid, germany. in the daytime, in the indifferent gaze of the citizens, it was cut out by the neo-nazis in saxony because little russian girls came by. i am convinced that only everyday civic action, publicly declared resistance by the political elites, an open and comprehensive interpretation of history, especially of the 20th century, and in particular police and courts that do not turn a blind eye to racists, xenophobes and neo-nazis, but punish their actions immediately, can prevent extremism.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union's relations with the balkans are a delicate issue, not least because the union's largest states, through their policy of divide and rule, have made a significant contribution to the break-up of yugoslavia, which has been a key stabilizing factor in the whole region since the first world war. in the successor states, with the exception of slovenia, we see instability everywhere, ethnic social tensions, the refugee problem, high levels of corruption and unemployment, a weak state position with little influence of elected parliaments. in such an environment, smuggling, arms, white meat, drugs, tobacco, and alcohol flourish. it's hard to plan transportation, energy, economic development in an environment like this. in such an environment, it is difficult to protect the environment. how can any of you be surprised that we see these phenomena as urgent problems on earth and in montenegro? the resolution is a poor summary of what we should do to remove the guilt that, in the present state of affairs, rests upon many of you. do you realize that?
commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, montenegro has made visible progress in its short time of independent existence. the foundations of a new state have been laid and a new constitution has been approved, the economy is growing strongly at 8% and 700 million euros of investment has flowed into the country this year alone. the stabilisation and association agreement was signed and montenegro embarked on the path to future full membership of the european union. however, if this path to european union membership is to be the shortest and fastest possible, podgorica will have to make many important decisions. for example, the rule of law needs to be strengthened, including the independence of the judiciary; the fight against corruption needs to be much more vigorous than in the past; and the transparency of decision-making in political and economic structures needs to be increased in order to ensure the democratic and fair functioning of the market economy. tourism is of great importance for the economic development of montenegro. here too, its sustainability must be ensured, inter alia, by adopting a single legislative framework for the environment and coastal protection. ladies and gentlemen, the accession process of montenegro and its neighbours allows for a much stronger development of regional cooperation. i am convinced that this regional cooperation within the framework of cefta will also contribute to the solution of many political, economic and social problems, among others, throughout the region. i would therefore like to conclude by calling on the european commission to help montenegro and the other western balkan countries effectively in developing regional cooperation, particularly in the fields of energy, transport and the environment.
mr. chairman, the abolition of quotas and the introduction of monitoring of textile imports from china next year is a reality that can improve controls. i don't like that, for example, wool is excluded from the monitoring. our resolution is a political appeal to the commission to be more forceful in enforcing international obligations and a protest against chinese barriers to the import of european products. i welcome the fact that china will have to issue import licences and that this will allow controls to be carried out in chinese ports, which will better protect europe from counterfeiting. however, the commission also has a duty to protect european consumers from toxic substances, such as azo dyes, which chinese goods sometimes contain, and i therefore ask the commission to also focus on the interception of unhealthy textile products already at the borders of the european union.
