i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 29 of the rules of procedure of this house. this article provides that the formation of political groups in parliament is subject to the existence of a common political view among the members of the group. i take the view that the interview given by mrs mussolini to the apa news agency on 8 january - at least it was published by the apa - cannot be brought into line with rule 29. in this interview, mrs mussolini said that the group to be formed in future would be a technical group rather than a political one. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the information provided by the member states. this is not in accordance with rule 29 of our rules of procedure, because we know from the past of this house that technical groups are inadmissible. i therefore ask the committee on the rules of procedure to examine the legitimacy of the formation of this group. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague mr daul on his achievements. i think that of all those who are here today, he has taken on the most difficult job. i wish him every success in leading the not so simple group of which he has become the new chairman. always a happy hand, my dear joseph! i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to welcome our colleagues from bulgaria and romania. we, the socialist group, have fought more than any other group in this house for the date of 1 january 2007 to be retained, because we believe that the sooner the unity of our continent can be restored in freedom, peace and soon unshared prosperity, the better. today is a good day because the bulgarian and romanian colleagues are officially with us from today. we are not going to vote for the report. (applause from the centre) i am grateful to you, mr president borrell, for two reasons. i want to start with an apology. i must apologise to you for all the unspeakable meetings of the conference of group chairmen, in which you have had to put up with me as leader - leader and sufferer. you have conducted these sessions in an attempt to curb my known overly calm temperament. you didn't always succeed, and neither did i. i want to personally apologize for everything i've done to you. but, mr president, i would like to say on behalf of the socialist group: you have been an exceptionally worthy president of this chamber. you have represented this house with great dignity and the great respect you have earned, both within europe and outside it. i was told by a member of the european council that there is no head of state or government who does not listen attentively when josep borrell speaks at the council of heads of state or government. and there are two reasons for that: the dignity of your person and the cleverness of your speeches are both responsible for your being an excellent representative of this freely elected european institution. we, the socialist group, have elected you, and many colleagues in this house have placed their trust in you as a new and unknown colleague. i think i can say for all of us today that josep borrell has justified that trust in every way. mr president, we in the socialist group are pleased that you are now returning to the ranks of this group. you'll be a regular member of parliament again. anyone who knows you knows that you will also be an unpretentious, ordinary member of parliament, because you are capable of holding a high office and then resigning as a normal member of this house. this kind of personal modesty is perhaps the distinguishing and outstanding feature of josep borrell's personality. i would like to thank you on behalf of my group for all that you have done for this house. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am running today for the office of president of the european parliament to serve with you the citizens of the european union, the rule of law and the solidarity between our peoples. i do so on the basis of my work here in the european parliament since the first direct elections in 1979. in the committee on regional development, where i started as coordinator for my group, i became aware of the concerns of the less-favoured regions throughout europe. i was chairman of the subcommittee on security and disarmament for ten years at a time when we were ridiculed when we started this work. i particularly remember the excellent cooperation with klaus hänsch, our former president. as vice-chairman of our group - and i am particularly proud of that - i was responsible for my group and our political family for the treaty of amsterdam, which brought the european parliament the breakthrough in legislation. i was then responsible for enlargement issues. all those who were present know that i have been working from the beginning to ensure that all the countries of central europe, which are now members of the european union, are treated equally in the negotiations. i am happy that the countries of central europe are now part of our community of values in the european union. (applause from the centre) as chairman of the group of the european people's party, i have criticised the treaty of nice in this chamber. i said back then, in december 2000, 'we need another reform. we need a large convention to deal with the future of europe. i am glad that this view has been supported by our group and then by almost the whole of the european parliament. on this basis, i would like to achieve the following with you: europe must be a europe of citizens. it is our common task to convince people to join us in our great project of uniting our continent while preserving the identities of our peoples. we need even better cooperation with national parliaments, but not just at national level; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we need a trusting partnership there. we are not adversaries, but we are working towards a common goal: the unity of our continent. i want to make my decisive contribution to the realization of the substance of the constitutional treaty. this european union of 500 million people needs reforms. we must fight peacefully to make these reforms a reality. i would add that this europe has no chance of a future unless we are committed to our values. that is why the values we have agreed in part ii of the constitution are also important and we must implement them together. finally, i would like to contribute with you to the dialogue between cultures, particularly with the arab and islamic worlds. i've been to 16 arab countries in the last five or six years. we need to work together better. we want partnership and, if possible, friendship with the arab and islamic worlds on the basis of our convictions. we respect other beliefs, but we must peacefully walk the path to the future. i have been and always will be a human rights lawyer. we have repeatedly criticised chechnya and the massacres. and i say as a friend of the united states of america: 'guantánamo is incompatible with our european legal order!' (applause from the centre) i would like to thank the ppe/de group and its chairman, mr joseph daul, the socialist group and its chairman, mr martin schulz, for their support, as well as the liberal and democratic group and its chairman, mr graham watson, the uen group and its chairman, mr brian crowley, and other colleagues. i would like to pay tribute to my fellow candidates for the presidency of the group of the european people's party. i would like to join you, ladies and gentlemen, in working with great commitment for the unification of our european continent, as we have done since 1979. i promise you that i will be a fair and objective president of the european parliament. i ask for your trust! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank mr berlinguer for his report. i would like to thank you for your dignified and effective conduct of the elections. thank you very much. (applause from the centre) mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you all very much for the great confidence you have placed in me, particularly in the beautiful but also difficult and responsible task of president of the european parliament. i will do my utmost to serve the citizens of the european union, democracy and parliamentarism. i want to contribute to a democratic, strong and capable european union in europe and in the world. the dignity of the human person, respect for the rule of law and a commitment to solidarity among the peoples of the european union will be the guiding principles of my commitment. i would like to say to the citizens of the european union that only together can our peoples defend our values and interests in the world. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the president of that institution which has done so much for the values of europe and will continue to do so, the president of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, with which we want to work well, mr president rené van der linden, is with us today in the european parliament. i'd like to welcome you to the club, rené van der linden. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to present my programme of work to you at 10 a.m. on tuesday, 13 february, provided that the group chairmen - they are powerful people - decide to do so. the president of the european parliament is bound by their decisions. i will invite the presidents of all the institutions of the european union and all the former presidents of the european parliament to attend. the aim is to express the fact that, wherever we stand politically, whatever our convictions and ideals may be, we are united by the determination to create, while preserving the identity of our peoples, an ever closer union of the peoples of the european union, as the treaties require. i would like to thank my predecessor in office, josep borrell fontelles, on behalf of all of us, for his tireless and heartfelt efforts. i am doing this in particular personally. in my previous role as president of the group of the european people's party, i had constant and good contact with president borrell. thank you very much, josep borrell! (applause from the centre) well, ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to working with you on this new task. i will try to be a fair and objective president to you. i would like to ask you to be fair and objective in your assessment of my work. thank you very much. (applause from the centre) we now come to a round of group leaders. the president of the epp-ed group, mr joseph daul, has the floor. i would like to congratulate him on his election.
i was told that in the experience of past presidents, the greatest expectations were always placed on the political family from which one came, and that this was always the most difficult. i hope that this time it may be as you have expressed it.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to begin by thanking, as did my predecessor, mr francis wurtz, mr jens-peter bonde and mr monica frassoni. it was a worthy campaign, a worthy debate, always fair and in every way collegial. i congratulate the three on the results they have obtained. i congratulate you, mr president, on your election as president of this chamber. the socialist group in this house, mr poettering, will cooperate loyally with you as president, just as we expect the president, in the full neutrality of the exercise of his office, to be always a reliable, loyal partner of our group. that, mr poettering, is something no one who knows you can doubt. we therefore look forward with great confidence to the two and a half years of cooperation which we as a group will have with you as the newly elected president of this house and with whom we hope to contribute to the success of the european project. i am one of those who have had the opportunity to get to know you a little better over the last few years, mr president poettering. i therefore take the liberty of adding a personal remark to my congratulations on behalf of my group. anyone who knows you personally and intimately knows that your personal situation, your life path, is inextricably linked to your political stance. you were born in september 1945, and anyone who knows you knows that your father was killed in march 1945, in the last days of world war ii. you never met him yourself. i am sure that this experience, this experience of fatherless childhood and youth, brought you into european politics and the work of european unification, and that this experience, which is not unique in germany but commonplace in your generation, motivated you to fight for european unification in the way that you did. this work of unification, in which you played an important role, and you yourself as a person who acted within the framework of this work, your life has now led you to the top of this european parliament. i would therefore like to add to what i have said that i am sure that if our nation, our people, could have taken a different path than it had to take, if your father had not fallen, if he had been able to see where hans-gert poettering's path had led, he would certainly have been proud of his son, just as your sons today can rightly be proud of their father. i'm very happy for you. (applause from the centre)
you can assume that i always listen very, very well to my colleagues!
we have been in the european parliament together since 1979 and a great deal of trust has been built up over these years.
president of the commission. mr president, on my own behalf and on behalf of the european commission, i want to congratulate you very sincerely. it gives me great pleasure to see you as president of the european parliament. today the european parliament has elected a new leader whose qualities as a person and as a politician are uniquely well suited to this high office. i know the president as a person of political vision and integrity – qualities that will be needed in this very challenging job. as the leader of your group for eight years, mr president, you pursued your vision of a political europe as the only guarantee for a peaceful and prosperous europe. your attachment to the core values of justice, human rights and the dignity of the human being have, for so many years, been the hallmark of your work. i want to highlight your fairness to everybody, from your insistence that everybody must be treated equally within parliament to the view that, in the european union, no one country is bigger than another. we have all appreciated your honesty and transparency: with mr poettering, you know that a done deal is a done deal and one which he will honour and respect. his experience as one of the longest-serving members of this house will be of immense value to all of us. no one knows this house and its ways better than him. mr president, you have always served this house with excellence, as an ardent defender of the interests of europe and its citizens, and have thus promoted the european parliament’s standing. mr president, let me highlight what i think will be a special responsibility for your mandate. you are the first president elected in this parliament after this great enlargement of the european union. you assume your office immediately after the conclusion of the fifth enlargement of the european union with the accession of bulgaria and romania. that is why this is a truly historic moment: the first president elected by a parliament representing the citizens of 27 countries. no other parliament in the world can compare to this. i should like to make a personal remark. yesterday i was in ljubljana, slovenia, together with the current president of the council, chancellor merkel, and many colleagues from the european council, and i was really moved by the enthusiasm of the slovenian citizens, who have now joined the euro area. i was also moved by the enthusiasm and the dynamism that the new members of the european union bring to our union. that is why i believe that our joint task is to make all europe united, with no first- and second-class countries, with no first- and second-class citizens – and you may count on our cooperation to achieve this task. i have no advice to give you: you have been involved in european politics longer than i – even if you look younger, you are not so young! (laughter) however, let me use my experience as president of another european institution – the european commission – to make a personal comment: today’s union requires, more than ever, a spirit of partnership among all european institutions. this union is much more complex than before: it takes time and patience to find the necessary consensus. it is sometimes difficult; sometimes it is controversial and even painful, but we need, more than ever, this spirit of partnership. no european institution can build its prestige and standing at the expense of another institution. it is in the common interest of all the european institutions to reinforce each other in the service of the european project. this is specifically true for relations between the european parliament and the european commission, because we know that the cause of greater and deeper european integration has been advanced only when there has been this spirit of cooperation among our institutions. that is why i call for a great coalition of all those who stand for europe and its values, including, of course, some on the left, some on the right and some in the centre, whose ideological differences contribute to the richness of europe as a political system, but who are also able to go beyond those ideological differences and share what i believe is our common goal: a strong, united europe for peace, democracy and human rights. (applause)
mr president of the commission, thank you for your remarks. you can certainly always count on the president of the european parliament, and indeed the whole european parliament, as a fair partner. we have different roles to play, but we have the same ambition: to make europe united, so we can defend our values and interests. mehrere kolleginnen und kollegen haben in ihren beiträgen zum ausdruck gebracht, dass die großen und die kleinen länder der europäischen union die gleiche würde haben. ich werde am donnerstagnachmittag auf dem weg von straßburg in meine niedersächsische heimat, in den landkreis osnabrück, meinen ersten besuch in luxemburg machen, um damit zum ausdruck zu bringen, dass alle länder die gleiche würde haben. wir wollen damit das große engagement luxemburgs für europa zum ausdruck bringen. die menschen, die bürgerinnen und bürger in luxemburg haben ja gesagt zum verfassungsvertrag, und wir dürfen niemals die länder vergessen, die ja gesagt haben. nun müssen wir die überzeugen, die noch nicht entschieden haben und die nein gesagt haben. das ist unsere gemeinsame aufgabe, vor der wir jetzt stehen.
the next item is the election of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. i have received the following nominations: the candidates have informed me that they accept their respective candidacies. i am very pleased to inform you that the candidates have accepted the nomination of their respective candidates. the number of candidates may not exceed the number of seats available without the agreement of the political groups. i propose that the election be by roll-call in accordance with rule 12 (1) of the rules of procedure, but that a vote be taken afterwards to determine the order of precedence. (applause from the centre) i therefore declare the candidates i have just mentioned to be vice-presidents of the european parliament. i would like to congratulate all the members who have been elected. the next point is the establishment of the ranking of the vice-presidents. as this is a question of determining the order of precedence of the vice-presidents, the qualified majority is not necessary for this vote, since all have already been elected. the ballots are being distributed. the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
i'm announcing the results of the vote to determine the ranking of the vice presidents. the number of votes cast: 703 the vote was 696 they received: the european parliament has voted in favour of the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission is not in a position to do so. i would like to congratulate all the vice-presidents and i hope that we will work well together in the bureau of the european parliament. in accordance with rule 14 (2) of the rules of procedure, the order of precedence of the vice-presidents is determined by the number of votes cast for them and, in the event of a tie, the higher age shall prevail.
the next item is the election of the quaestors of the european parliament. i have received the following nominations: the candidates have informed me that they accept their respective candidacies. since the number of candidates does not exceed the number of seats available, i propose that the election be by teleconference in accordance with rule 12 (1) of the rules of procedure, but that an electronic vote be held afterwards to determine the order of precedence. (applause from the centre) i therefore declare all the candidates to be quaestors of the european parliament and once again i warmly congratulate these colleagues on their election and wish us good cooperation in the bureau. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. since this is a question of determining the order of precedence of quaestors only, the qualified majority is not required for this vote. - after the vote: here are the results of the vote to elect the quaestors. the vote was 669 the commission has also been asked to submit a report on the implementation of the new rules. they received: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in accordance with rule 15 and rule 14 (2) of the rules of procedure, the order of precedence of quaestors is determined by the order in which they were elected. i'm very happy for you. this will enable us to announce the composition of the new bureau and the quaestors to the institutions of the european communities.
i would like to welcome you to the debate on the programme of the german presidency. i would like to welcome you, madam president of the european council, and welcome you, madam chancellor, to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i also welcome the president of the european commission, mr durão barroso, who very often - and we appreciate this - participates in our debates out of obligation, of course, but also, i hope, with pleasure. (applause from the centre) your personality, madam chancellor, is a symbol of the change taking place on our european continent. when the european parliament was first directly elected in 1979 by the then nine peoples of the european community, germany and our european continent were divided by minefields and barbed wire and your country's capital, berlin, by a wall. you yourself were forced to live in the unfree eastern part of your then united fatherland on 3 october 1990. on 1 may 2004, estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary and slovenia joined malta and cyprus, and on 1 january this year bulgaria and romania joined the community of values of the european union, which now has 27 nations. you, madam chancellor, are the first president of the european council from the formerly unfree part of europe. today you represent the community of free peoples of the european union. you are speaking today before the democratically elected representatives of 27 european peoples, representing almost 500 million people. you speak of a strong, confident and committed european parliament. what seemed like an unattainable vision in 1979 has become a reality. this shows how right the policy of european unification was and is, based on our common values. i would now like to ask you, madam president of the european council, to address the representatives of the citizens of the european union. (applause from the centre)
president of the council. mr president, mr poettering, mr president of the commission, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking as a representative of a national parliament, almost as a colleague. i am pleased to be addressing you today for the first time as president of the council in this european parliament, a parliament with members from 27 member states. i would therefore like to extend a very warm welcome to the romanian and bulgarian members. (applause from the centre) i would like to express once again my warm congratulations to the president of the european parliament and the vice-presidents who were elected yesterday, also on behalf of the whole council, and i would like to offer you, at the beginning of the german presidency, that we will pursue a good, close, constructive, intensive cooperation, as is the case for cooperation with a confident parliament, as the president has just said. ladies and gentlemen, i have spent my entire life in europe. in the european union, however, i am still a young woman. i grew up in the former gdr, and it was only 17 years ago, after german reunification, after the overthrow of socialism, that i was accepted into the european union - along with millions of other people. so until i was 35, i knew the european union only from the outside; since 1990 i have known it from the inside. from the inside, we know that almost everything in life looks a little different from the outside. that is true of every house, and it is true of europe. from the outside, the european union is a historic success story without precedent. the european union is one of the most impressive peacebuilders on planet earth. the european union has been a great success for the peoples of europe. it ensures their freedom and enables them to prosper. (applause from the centre) the treaties of rome are almost 50 years old. we are celebrating this anniversary on 24 and 25 march in berlin, a city which symbolizes the reunification of europe after the end of the cold war like no other. but let's face it, 50 years is basically a blink of an eye in history. but in that short time, europe has achieved an unimaginable amount! so this is europe from the outside. but even from the inside, the european union is a wonderful house. i find it experienced from the inside - that's my experience of the last 17 years - even more beautiful than from the outside. i would never want to leave this house again: there is - that is my conviction - no better place for us to live in europe than our common european home! (applause from the centre) today we're going to expand it. we're expanding it. we're renewing it in some places. i sometimes think that if we are so busy building and renovating the building that today almost half a billion europeans are living in, then we can easily overlook the greatness, the uniqueness, of the building. then sometimes we can't quite grasp what this building really is, where its core is. ladies and gentlemen, many people in europe - you can feel it when you are at home - are going through exactly the same thing today. they ask themselves: what is europe supposed to be? what do we need europe for? what is it that holds europe together at its core? what is this european union? some people think that trying to define the nature of europe is a waste of time. i don't see it that way, to be honest. i remember jacques delors. he was a great man. he famously said: 'we must give europe a soul'. i would add that we must find the soul of europe. we do not need to give it to europe, because we already have it. is diversity that soul? few have put it more beautifully than the writer karel čapek, a great european from prague: 'the creator of europe made it small and even divided it into tiny pieces, so that our hearts rejoice not in its size but in its diversity.' what about diversity? it is certainly true to say that europe lives on its diversity. we want to preserve the differences between our nations, between the regions of europe, the diversity of languages and mentalities. we cannot and will not harmonize everything that can be harmonized. it is true that europe lives on its diversity. but it 's also true: the diversity as such cannot be the universal european principle which helps us to understand what holds europe together at its core, what constitutes its soul. but with the recognition of the diversity of nations and people, we create something different. that is how we get to the real question we have to answer. it is: what does europe's diversity make possible? i think the answer to that question is clear: freedom allows us to be diverse. (applause from the centre) freedom is the prerequisite for our diversity. freedom in all its forms: the freedom to express one's opinion publicly, even if it offends others. freedom to believe or not to believe, freedom of enterprise. the freedom of the artist to shape his work as he sees fit. europe needs this freedom like it needs air to breathe. where it is restricted, we wither. it is vital for europe to be aware that freedom is not won once and for all. freedom must be won anew almost every day. (applause from the centre) and freedom is not without obligations. it is inseparable from responsibility. so when we talk about true freedom, we are actually always talking about the freedom of the other. or to put it in the famous words of voltaire, i quote: "i may hate what you say, but i will stake my life on your right to say it". i think voltaire was the soul of europe. (applause from the centre) the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. we europeans have learned in our history to make the most of diversity. and the quality that enables us to do that, that enables us to be free in responsibility for the other, that is a precious asset: it is tolerance. the soul of europe is tolerance. europe is the continent of tolerance. it took us centuries to learn that. on our way to tolerance, we had to suffer through disasters. we've hunted each other down and destroyed each other. we have devastated our home. we have compromised what is sacred to us. the worst period of hatred, devastation and destruction is not yet over. it was done in the name of my people. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the european union. but from this centuries-long history, we in europe are obliged to promote tolerance everywhere in europe and throughout the world, and to help everyone to practice tolerance. (applause from the centre) yes, ladies and gentlemen, tolerance is a demanding virtue. she needs the heart and the mind. she's charging us. but it is not to be confused with arbitrariness and lack of a point of view. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is a simple way to the soul of europe, to tolerance: one must also see with the eyes of the other. try it once! it is a fascinating adventure to discover, through the eyes of the many peoples of europe, the diversity of our continent, that is, our wealth. but while we may be fascinated by it, we must not forget that tolerance is constantly being challenged. i therefore say clearly: europe must never have the slightest understanding of intolerance. (applause from the centre) europe must never have the slightest tolerance for violence by right-wing and left-wing extremism, for violence in the name of religion. tolerance is its own grave-digger if it does not guard against intolerance. or, in the words of thomas mann, "tolerance becomes a crime when it is applied to evil". tolerance without understanding intolerance - that's what makes a man human. in lessing's famous ring parable, nathan the wise tells of a quarrel between three brothers. it's about who is the true heir to the father's ring and therefore to religious truth. this heritage can only be shown by good deeds. that's what the brothers should excel at. i believe that this is where we find the soul of europe again, in our peaceful coexistence, in our search for the best for each other. for me, as a christian who expressly professes the christian foundations of europe, the most beautiful part of the play is a wish of the sultan to nathan. across all the religious divides, the muslim asks the jew, "be my friend". the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to us in the present. that was and is the great aim of european unification. (applause from the centre) this was the starting point of the first european steps after 1945: the treaty on the european coal and steel community, the treaties of rome, have not yet dealt with our culture, or have done so only very little, and the maastricht treaty does not deal with it at all. but without a vision of a common europe, of what europe is at its heart, all these treaties would not have been possible. the treaties have already addressed important questions of european coexistence and have provided some wonderful answers. and so, on this basis, i can commit myself today to the tasks of today, to a europe of the equal participation of all member states, large and small, old and new. europe will only succeed if we work together. and that is precisely the motto of our presidency: europe succeeds together. and i would add that europe can only succeed if we work together. i am in favour of a europe that focuses on what is best managed at european level, but does so with the necessary commitment and efficiency. i am in favour of a europe which, on the other hand, deliberately leaves to the member states, their regions and their local authorities policy areas where european regulation would be more of an obstacle. (applause from the centre) i am committed to a europe that explicitly relies on european solutions, where it wants and must act together to meet the challenges of the 21st century: globalisation, the threat to peace and security posed by new threats such as terrorism. i believe that we can only meet all these challenges on the basis of our understanding of tolerance. the draft constitutional treaty is the first time that a european treaty text expressly speaks of the tolerance which characterizes the member states of the european union and which will help us to create the basis on which the future europe can develop new, sensible rules, rules which are appropriate to the new size of the european union and the challenges ahead, rules which must enable us to act. we know that the european union cannot be enlarged under the present rules, nor is it able to take the necessary decisions. we have to overcome this condition. we therefore need clear descriptions of the competences of the european union and the national states. rules of procedure must be more clearly defined than before. in other words, the treaty bases we have must be adapted to the changing conditions if the european union is to survive in the world of tomorrow. this is the background against which i am consulting with all the member states, the european commission and parliament on behalf of the european council on a way out of the ratification crisis of the constitutional treaty. the thinking phase is over. the time has now come to work out new decisions by june. i am working to ensure that at the end of the german presidency a roadmap for the further process of the constitutional treaty can be adopted. (applause from the centre) it is in the interest of europe, its member states and its citizens to bring this process to a successful conclusion by the next european parliament elections in spring 2009. failure to do so would be a historic failure. (applause from the centre) let us face up to the challenge. and let us be guided by the spirit of tolerance, as we have been in the past in the historical decisions of europe, in dealing with our diversity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the community. i see two main points: firstly, the european union is facing challenges in foreign and security policy from all sides. in kosovo, the union will accompany the implementation of a status settlement. stability in the western balkans is in our common interest. i would add that without a european perspective for the countries of the western balkans, there will be no stability. (applause from the centre) in the middle east, the european union must promote the peace process together with the united states, the un and russia. in short, the so-called middle east quartet is needed. the european union must be united in its efforts to achieve peace, stability and sustainable development in the middle east. the same applies to the handling of iran's nuclear programme. the european union has a fundamental interest in the successful development of afghanistan. we know that only a combination of military and civilian efforts can succeed. everything else is a dead end. the european union must show greater political will than ever in its neighbourhood. the desire of many countries to join the community cannot always be met. neighbourhood policy is the sensible and attractive alternative. and we shall, during our presidency, develop such a neighbourhood policy in particular for the black sea region and central asia. (applause from the centre) the success of the doha round is also worth every effort. there is too much at stake, for us, but also for the developing countries. the window of opportunity is narrow. we are determined to do everything we can to make this a success. (applause from the centre) we are not going to stop there, however, because we want to discuss the deepening of the transatlantic economic partnership at the summit between the european union and the united states. the united states is the european union's most important trading partner. we are each other's most important investment partner. in the interests of global competitiveness, we must continue to reduce trade barriers, such as patent law, industry standards and stock exchange access. i am convinced that a common transatlantic market is in the best european interest. (applause from the centre) of course, we cannot look only in the direction of america. the partnership with russia is also of strategic importance for europe. it is to be extended to the widest possible extent. that is why a new partnership and cooperation agreement must be negotiated. the question of cooperation on energy will also be central. we will do everything we can to ensure that negotiations on this can begin during the german presidency. i say it loud and clear: we need reliable relations with russia. it's the only way to build trust. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. (applause from the centre) we want to lay the foundation for a global climate agreement from 2012 at the european council in march and, since germany also holds the g8 presidency, at the g8 summit. we know that europe must be the leader in this, on the one hand, and on the other hand we need the united states of america and other countries. it is therefore important to encourage the us to cooperate more closely with the european union on energy and climate policy. because it's not too much to say that access to energy and climate protection are the two challenges facing humanity in the 21st century. (applause from the centre) we also want to redefine relations with africa. africa is changing. africa is our neighbor. it is worthwhile and wise to invest there, both economically and politically. that is why we are starting to prepare a summit between the eu and africa as soon as possible. it will then be held under the portuguese presidency. ladies and gentlemen, on this short trip around the world, i want to address important foreign and security policy challenges. but as brief as this overview may be today, it is clear that only together can we meet these challenges. we must act together. that is why we need the european foreign minister for european foreign policy, so that our words can be followed by action. that is also one of the reasons for the constitutional treaty. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the european union's main policy instrument in the fight against unemployment. this is the second priority of our work during our presidency. the lisbon strategy is based on the vision of a europe that is strong in growth and social, but also responsible for its environment. meanwhile, the economy is growing at an increasing rate. this cannot be an end in itself. so when i hear growth, i think jobs. i am convinced that employment is our first and foremost concern; that is the social europe. we must also, of course, be concerned about the conditions for employment. the commission's proposals are therefore of the utmost importance to the march council, where we shall be discussing the various aspects of the commission's proposals. in my view, the reduction of red tape is also a permanent task for the european union, inseparably linked to the question of how to create jobs, how to be more efficient and competitive. (applause from the centre) we will therefore be following very closely the commission's initiatives, which you all know as 'better regulation'. i also hope - and i know this is a difficult debate - that we will also discuss the so-called discontinuity principle, which means that legislation that has not been enacted in the european union expires at the end of a european parliament's term of office. (applause from the centre) this is good democratic practice in most member states. why not europe? the new commission and the new parliament would then make a political fresh start possible. i am sure that such a democratic break would give even greater importance to the european parliament elections. i would ask the members of the european parliament to support the presidency of the council in this matter with their proposals and ideas. ladies and gentlemen, all these tasks cannot be accomplished in six months. we must and we will overcome the shortness of breath of six months of council presidency. europe needs to be continuous. that's why the idea of the trio presidency is so important. i am pleased to be inaugurating the first trio presidency of the european union here in strasbourg this afternoon, together with my portuguese and slovenian colleagues. the idea of greater continuity in europe is also an innovation, which is laid down in the constitutional treaty. and that concludes my circle of reflection. we are not going to come back to this again by chance - to a necessary treaty reform. it is quite certain that a slow, bureaucratic and fragmented europe will not solve any of the above problems, either in foreign and security policy or in the field of climate and energy policy, in the field of european research policy, in cutting red tape or in enlargement and neighbourhood policy. all these challenges require europe to act together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they require a willingness to change and renew. i find it worthwhile to look at the conditions under which the world's regions are developing most successfully. american scientist richard florida has studied this and has come across three factors: technology, talent and tolerance! only when all three factors come together can we achieve sustainable growth in areas of future. technology, talent and tolerance - what good news for europe! what a fine maxim for our actions! technology, talent and tolerance europe is a world of innovation. europe lives on scientific and technological progress, economic progress and social progress. and europe is living off curiosity. europeans have made a great invention for this: the universities. it is one of the many european ideas which are now taken for granted all over the world. and the prerequisite for the free development of curiosity is tolerance. for only those who do not consider their own opinion to be perfect or superior in every way can have any interest in learning about the other person's viewpoint, experience and knowledge. only those who also acknowledge the other's wise thoughts, moral attitude and responsible action are willing to learn from the other. and in doing so, he can win, grow, evolve. learning from each other leads to new knowledge. today we call it innovation. but by that i mean far more than just technological innovation. this is true of cultural creations, political concepts, intellectual ideas. europe would not have become the europe it is today without its outstanding innovative capacity. i want to encourage us, yes, i want to call us to maintain our curiosity in a spirit of tolerance. curiosity because we believe that the world around us can be designed in the 21st century. it is probably true what the german writer peter prange wrote in his book values. from plato to pope, he wrote: "everything we europeans have ever achieved is due to our inner contradiction, to the eternal division within ourselves, to the constant back and forth of opinion and opposition, of idea and counter-idea, of thesis and antithesis". and why, i ask myself, after countless wars and endless suffering, why could all our contradictions in europe, all our opposites, have succeeded in something as great as the work of european unification since the treaties of rome almost 50 years ago? what is it that enables us to make the best of all this? you can tell. it is what i consider to be the essence of europe's approach to its diversity: tolerance. why not do the same for the next 50 years? (applause from the centre and the right)
i am not going to go into detail. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
president of the commission. mr president, madam chancellor, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to extend my warmest greetings to chancellor merkel and wish her and her team every success in their presidency of the council. i would like to congratulate mr poettering on his new position. the commission will be able to give you both its full support. europe can only succeed if we work together. (applause from the centre) 2007 is a crucial year. the 50th anniversary of the rome treaties is certainly a time to celebrate past achievements, but also to build on those achievements for the benefit of a new generation of europeans, a generation for whom europe's original rationale is in the past, but for whom europe can and does offer so much for the future. it is a happy coincidence that this anniversary falls during the german presidency. many of our core policies social and economic cohesion, the euro, the internal market, enlargement owe much to germany, and as europeans, we should always have a word of gratitude for everything germany has done for the great cause of european integration. as we have just heard from chancellor merkel, germany's commitment to europe remains as powerful as ever. the german presidency offers an opportunity to demonstrate why the european union matters so much in the age of globalisation. i agree with the priorities presented just now by chancellor merkel. indeed, i welcome the fact that those priorities are now the priorities of a trio of presidencies which gives increased consistency and coherence to the work of the european council. therefore, i will not go into detail, but will just concentrate on two immediate priorities, bearing in mind our work leading up to the march european council: energy and climate change, and the declaration that we hope to adopt in march. let us take the march european council. the commission's proposals from last week on energy and climate change form a central part of the lisbon agenda for growth and jobs. these are issues which touch the lives of every european, where europe must continue to show leadership and where the european dimension is absolutely essential. we need that european dimension. you cannot tackle global warming, you cannot deliver sustainable, secure and competitive energy, without europe. so what must be agreed at the european council in march? first, we in the commission believe that we should agree on the strategic goal of an agreement by developed countries to cut their emissions by 30% by 2020, which is essential to ensuring that global temperatures exceed pre-industrial levels by no more than 2°c. this will be our first objective. europe must continue to lead, and to provide an incentive for others to follow. the leadership comes with the european union commitment now to at least a 20% cut in emissions by 2020; the incentive by making clear that we will go further if others join us. it is, after all, global warming, not just european warming. others have to join our efforts. second, three pillars to deliver our objectives of sustainable, secure and competitive energy. a single market in practice as well as on paper, to give real choice to european union energy users and to trigger investment. this will require a clearer separation of energy production from energy distribution, and stronger independent regulatory control with a european dimension. the commission also makes proposals on improved interconnections, on transparency and on a new customers' energy charter. a 20% target for energy efficiency by 2020, with detailed proposals for how to get there. a new drive for clean energy, through a binding commitment to triple renewable energy use by 2020. a 50% annual increase in the energy research budget and commitments to advance clean hydrocarbon technology. there is a role for the european institute of technology in this. it is essential to hear parliament's voice on these issues in the run-up to the march european council. the european union could not have found a better way to launch its anniversary than by showing its ambitions for the future and making it clear that today climate change is one of the most important challenges if not the most important challenge we face in this 21st century. this is indeed the first part of the twin-track approach of policy delivery for europe's citizens alongside working towards a constitutional settlement, starting with the berlin declaration: a declaration on the future of europe which the commission proposed last may, and the european council agreed to in june. i believe that the berlin declaration is an opportunity for the member states to commit themselves to the values and aims of the european union. it must look ahead and deliver a political statement about the europe we want for the next 50 years and, as i proposed last may, it must fully involve parliament and the commission because, now, we are no longer just an economic community but also a political community, and only by involving the three main institutions - parliament, the council and the commission - can we do what our founding fathers did 50 years ago to show our political will for the next 50 years. it provides an opportunity for the 12 member states that joined in 2004 and 2007 to contribute, as full members, to the vision of our common future. this time they will not only sign up to what has been agreed but will also have a say on the europe we all want to build. it is appropriate that this declaration - a declaration for the future of europe - should be signed in berlin, the symbol of a reunited europe, a europe reunited in the values of freedom, peace and the rule of law. what should the declaration say? i think today's leaders should stand on the shoulders of the founding fathers and look ahead to the next 50 years to the challenges which could not be imagined in 1957 but which europe must face in 2007. put simply, they must equip europeans for globalisation, in a europe of open economies, open societies, in a europe which must engage with citizens, not ignore them. a europe built on citizens' consent has solid foundations. a europe which does not work for that consent is built on sand. i have five practical proposals for this declaration. first, solidarity: an enlarged and open europe requires greater cohesion social cohesion as well as economic. second, sustainability: the fight against climate change, through energy and other policies, should be a defining mission for europe's future. this was not perceived as a priority in 1957. this must be a priority in the declaration and in the constitutional settlement in 2007. (applause) i would like to thank third, accountability, transparency and access to information should become not only rights for european citizens but also obligations for europe's institutions. at the beginning of the european community, that could be done diplomatically, but today diplomacy is not enough: we need real democracy. fourth, security: europe must guarantee the security of its citizens while preserving fundamental freedoms. fifth, the external dimension: promoting europe's values in the world, as well as its interests. sustainability, accountability, solidarity and security cannot indeed, must not stop at europe's borders. i believe the european citizens want us to have a more coherent approach on the global scene. so this is one of the reasons why we need a constitutional settlement. these are five specific suggestions for the berlin declaration, a declaration which should create the momentum to settle the constitutional question. chancellor merkel has set out the presidency's ambitions. we need, by the end of the presidency, a common roadmap towards an institutional settlement, before the next european elections in 2009. however, we do not only need a roadmap; we also need a settlement to clear the clouds of doubt which hang over parts of europe, to show vitality and confidence to our partners, and to make the european union more transparent, more effective, more democratic and more coherent in the world. as i have said before, nice is not enough. (applause) i would like to thank our task today is to show leadership, translating the principles and values that were at the core of the foundation of our community for the global challenges of the 21st century. europe was never more needed than today. we need it not only for ourselves but also for this unpredictable, unstable world. we cannot build tomorrow's europe with yesterday's tools. we have a great opportunity to start changing that in the next six months. let's go to work. (applause) i would like to thank
president barroso, thank you very much for your strong commitment to our common project.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. madam president, your speech was encouraging, and i thank you for those encouraging elements in your speech! the spirit of your speech is what europe needs and that is what will take us forward in the german presidency. the socialist group will be on your side in this respect. but, madam chancellor, let me make a few remarks on the very limited comments on social europe. your concept of freedom is correct, and we share it. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. but freedom from fear, freedom from social threat is the basic condition for realizing the other freedoms! (applause) freedom is realized in social security. madam president, the people of this continent expect this union to be social. if the europe we are building does not give people the feeling that it offers them social security, then that europe will have no basis and will not find acceptance. you asked: 'what is it that enables us to hold this europe together? other yes, it's the technology, the tolerance and the promotion of talent. but the success model of the 20th century in its second half is that economic progress has been combined with social security. if this does not continue, madam chancellor, we in europe will have big problems! i therefore ask you to add to your concept of freedom, which i fully share, that social security is also freedom! i would therefore ask you to do something very important, madam chancellor: you have spoken of the constitution. this constitution incorporates the horizontal social commitment of the european union. it is not yet in force. but we can choose this social commitment. i would ask you to come forward with a mechanism, together with the commission, to enable social impact assessment of eu legislation. everything we do here is done in a single economic area, but in the area of 27 sovereign states with their specific national social systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we do this in advance, we will not have to correct what the commission has failed to do here in parliament, as in the case of the bolkestein directive! (applause from the centre) madam president, 18 states have ratified this constitution. it was rejected in two referendums, but it was also approved in two referendums. europe succeeds together, and in the common success there is always one thing: the capacity for compromise, the capacity for solidarity. what you have proposed for the constitution is the right way. let us start with the core of this constitution - because it has the power of a majority in europe - and ask those who are sceptical to submit their own proposals on how we can reach a compromise solution in solidarity. you're on the right track! europe needs energy security and a fair partnership, above all with the countries on whose cooperation we depend. you have said what is necessary about the partnership and cooperation agreement with russia. but what we also need is the realization that we can't tackle climate change if we don't say goodbye to the waste economy! we need energy reduction and energy efficiency. and we also need technology -- you're right -- and we need contract compliance. you are leading a government that has abandoned nuclear energy. that is good, and you have the chance to promote this government's line in europe. that would be even better! (applause and cheers) but if you want to use the presidency of the council to change the course of domestic policy, to do what you wanted to do as leader of the cdu, namely to reverse the withdrawal from nuclear energy, then i have to tell you: coalition agreements are treated like gas supply contracts. if you don't follow them, you lose credibility. madam president, you have said what is necessary on africa and on international politics. i am grateful to you for the commitment of the presidency to a policy of peace in the middle east and in the world, and above all to securing peace through equitable sharing. the fact that you mentioned africa is something we support very much. you have summoned the spirit of this europe. madam president, on 17 january 1991, 16 years ago, helmut kohl was elected the first chancellor of the reunified germany. you were a member of his government at the time. helmut kohl is a subject for debate and one can see many things differently from what he and you saw in his government. but one thing is certain: helmut kohl has earned a historic merit. it has embedded this reunified germany, free of any nationalistic attitude and any aspiration to great power, in the fabric of european unification. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the spirit of this trust is the spirit of the maastricht treaty and also of the amsterdam treaty. this was the europe of helmut kohl and françois mitterrand. this was the europe of felipe gonzález and jacques delors. this was also the europe of jacques santer. this was the europe of many great men and women. it was also the europe of margaret thatcher and john major. they have agreed to these contracts. it was europe that had the will to achieve the new order of our continent, to overcome hatred and intolerance, to overcome division by common ground. let me add that this will was not easy to achieve; it had to be enforced, it had to be fought for, it had to be confessed. these men and women did. and they did it for one simple reason: they had all learned from their own experience that the opposite of tolerance and peace is hatred and war. and whoever does not want europe to return to that must commit themselves to what you have called the soul of europe; he must fight for that soul. we are ready to do this together with you! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we, the epp group and in particular the german cdu/csu members, welcome your presidency of the council; this program is excellent! you have put forward an ambitious programme and i am sure that at the end of this six-month presidency you will be successful. we will support you in this regard. i am sure that you will succeed - as mr schulz has already said - in strengthening the spirit of trust once again. but mr schulz has left out one person in his list - i was wondering - the former chancellor schröder, who has in fact destroyed this spirit of confidence in europe by his foreign policy. we're counting on you! i also ask that we do not have any internal political disputes here, neither about nuclear energy, nor about school policy all that does not matter here! we want to support the priorities of the german presidency of the council, to promote the constitutional treaty and to review europe in its legislation. i also welcome the proposal for discontinuity! it is right that the role of the european parliament can be strengthened, as can that of the commission. but in the past it was often the case that legislative proposals did not reappear for ten years. we are pleased that you, madam chancellor, have set yourself the objective of making the problems of energy policy the main focus of your presidency of the council, especially the problems of european foreign policy. i'm sure it will work. we're all here for you. it is, of course, possible that, as mr schulz says, europe is a model of peace, a model of prosperity, an economic model. if it is to be developed as a social model, we must consider where the european union's competences lie. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are delighted and wish you every success!
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to thank you very much for your beautiful and also sensitive words. your comments on the values that unite us, such as tolerance and freedom, were certainly an important step towards this soul-finding of which you spoke. you know, of course, what is expected of the german presidency, and especially of you as president of the eu, because there is a vacuum of courage and leadership in this eu. we expect no more and no less from you, mrs merkel, than to demonstrate this courage and leadership. be specific. that's what we all expect from you here. i am pleased that you have expressed your willingness to cooperate with us in a very intensive and constructive manner; you can count on us for that. i want the presidency of our common country to be a success! i am also pleased to hear your clear words on the timetable for the constitutional treaty. i am glad that you say that it should be ratified by spring 2009. they want the other heads of government to swear to it. but, of course, this statement must be accompanied by another statement, namely, the statement as to which constitutional treaty we are talking about. the present constitutional treaty has failed. he was rejected. so i would like to ask you specifically: what are your ideas? do you want a shorter version, as has already been proposed, or do you want to stick to the present constitutional treaty? how can it be ratified? should each country proceed according to its own procedures and pace? should there be national referendums, or do you want to avoid them? you have said repeatedly, mrs merkel, that you want to put the citizen at the centre of european policy. that's the way to do it! we need this in response to a growing scepticism or rejection of europe: a europe of citizens and not a europe of secret diplomacy! the constitutional treaty is more than a document setting out voting procedures and modalities; it can be the basis for our common and binding values, which are summed up in it. that is why the citizens of europe should be given the chance to express their own views on this. what do you think, mrs merkel, of a europe-wide referendum taking place on the same day throughout europe? this would be a historic moment. the citizens could have their say. in conclusion, i have to say that more than a million people want us to have such debates in brussels. i'd be happy to do that, too. it's in your hands.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. but - and here is my contradiction - we are still miles away from having achieved freedom and human rights in europe and the eu! they do not apply to people without papers, nor do they apply to the many refugees who arrive daily at the eu's external borders. the images of ceuta, melilla and lampedusa are present! and you are right, madam chancellor, freedom must be won again and again. but it is also true that freedom is only possible in social equality. millions of people who are being marginalised every day, who are unemployed, who cannot live off their incomes, and the deepening of social divisions, including and especially through the implementation of the lisbon strategy, all of this in my view prevents the implementation of individual freedoms and social human rights. the same applies to access to culture and education for all people living in the eu, including and especially in germany. unfortunately, you did not mention any concrete initiative that would lead to a reorientation of the eu towards a social union, aimed at socially and ecologically binding minimum standards and minimum incomes in the eu, and which would also make a consistent policy against poverty and social exclusion the main or main issue of the german presidency. the european parliament has already made a number of important recommendations on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on them. a constitution must be open to the future and must also allow for changing political majorities. a pure market orientation in the constitution prevents this!
had i known that you speak german, mr kirkhope, i would always have taken the opportunity to speak to you in german – maybe we will do so in the future!
mr president, madam chancellor, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union has a primary interest in protecting the freedom and security of 480 million people. in your programme for the presidency you have rightly placed particular emphasis on the area of justice and home affairs, and in turn - rightly - on civil rights. it also contains useful suggestions. but when it comes to the scales of freedom and security, i would need a clear commitment from you. what do you think of the fact that we have introduced biometric features in identity documents, in the storage of data, in the transfer of passenger data to the united states, in the transfer of financial transaction data to the united states, in the creation of european databases and in the prüm treaty? it's a growing data-crack that's spreading here. will the german presidency conclude the negotiations on the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar, so as to bring this balance of freedom and security back into balance?
- i'm not going to. i would just like to remind you that there have been two presidents from the same country for some time: when my esteemed predecessor, pat cox of ireland, was president of the european parliament, his country also held the presidency. it's nothing extraordinary, and it's all going to pass.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the debate on how to give life to the constitutional treaty has already been discussed at great length. the former president of the federal republic of germany and former president of the federal constitutional court, roman herzog, made comments on this subject over the weekend. i would like to make it quite clear that what we worked out together in the convention was the correct answer to the analysis made by roman herzog, namely that the national parliaments should be involved at an early stage. i would also like to appeal to my colleagues in the national parliaments to live up to their responsibilities. if i recall all the initiatives taken by the council of ministers, all the accusations of centralisation in europe at the end of the century, i must say quite clearly that this was not invented in brussels by the commission, mr president of the commission, nor here in this house by the european parliament, but mostly by the ministers in the council of ministers. then i am very sorry that my dear friend daniel cohn-bendit is no longer with us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. he referred to the treaty of nice, which dates back to 2000, and to the work of the intergovernmental conference after the convention. i would like to point out that during this period his friend from the old times of living together in frankfurt, the green joschka fischer, was responsible as foreign minister. so he should not bore this house with it, but he should discuss it in his own house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we all want to do that, but the question is what can this european union do to be social? what must the member states do to give people a social home? i do not think that we will solve the problems by transferring more and more to brussels, but by delegating more to the bottom, including responsibility and social security. only then will it work. we wish you every success in your presidency. we'll do everything we can to support you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think this is a good picture. that's why it's used so much. i particularly liked what you said about the soul of this house and that we need to find the soul. but building a house involves different people: architects are part of that. the architects have spoken many times now. but it also includes the small craftsmen who have to do the fine work. i am one of those small craftsmen. it's an honorable profession. you have to pay a little bit of attention to the tools these craftsmen and women are getting their hands on. i would ask you to be a little careful not to overdo the few passages you have mentioned. we are all on your side and on the side of those who want to cut red tape. but if this is used to agitate against the regulatory framework we need, then i have my problems with it; because a decent community only lives by decent rules. as former president borrell said, better regulation does not mean no regulation. you should be aware of this, and above all you should be aware that it is not always the european union that imposes these rules. if you want to reduce bureaucracy, you have to start in the european union as a whole and in the member states. i can say from my own experience - i do not know what it is like in other countries, but in my own member state it is like this - that the bureaucratic obstacles created in the country itself are much more numerous than those created at european level. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam president-in-office, i very much welcome your great commitment to overcoming the crisis in relation to the ratification of the constitutional treaty. this is the first priority of the german presidency, and it is the measure of success and failure. this parliament has adopted two resolutions on this subject by very large majorities. we say that the treaty negotiated and signed is the starting point for all considerations and that the pacta sunt servanda must also apply in this case, so that there can be trust between the 27 member states. the solution might be solid in substance, but flexible in form. we cannot accept a mini-contract which contains only institutional rules. that would, as you say, take the soul of europe. the soul of the european union is all the elements which are addressed directly to the people, namely the european charter of fundamental rights, but also all the elements of direct and indirect democracy, such as the citizens' demands or the strengthening of the chambers of citizens of this parliament, but also of our colleagues in the national parliaments. it must be in the constitution, otherwise it would not be acceptable to this parliament. a shorter constitution may offer a way out of the crisis. we have a book of 448 articles that hardly anyone can read and understand. the third part is simply misguided. you have to work on a text with maybe 100 articles that you can read in every school class. as regards the timetable, i would suggest that we should perhaps get it done under the portuguese presidency, because we must avoid this problem in the european elections. this parliament will support you, mrs merkel!
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mrs merkel, i would like to thank you for your reply. as german prime minister, you are following a great european tradition. mr martin schulz rightly pointed this out and i must take this opportunity to defend him against the unjustified accusation of my friend werner langen that he has forgotten your predecessor in the list of important german heads of government. i assure you, martin schutz is neither forgetful nor speaks without deliberation. the constitutional treaty is at the heart of our aspirations and expectations for your presidency. to use your image of the house of europe, there is a murmur in this house of europe. everybody wants to live in it. nevertheless, the citizens of the netherlands and france have said no, which means that the constitutional treaty is addressed to two levels: to the councils and governments on the one hand and to the citizens on the other. it is clear that the constitutional treaty has failed, for the time being, not in the eyes of the councils and governments, but in the eyes of the citizens, and that is why we must concentrate our efforts on winning over the citizens. the thousand dollar question is, how do we do that? i would like to return to your picture of the house of europe: we all want to live there, but the inhabitants want to do the interior decoration themselves. there are too many european regulations that interfere with the interior design of the house of europe. it promotes the crush. there is an excess of european regulation, even in places where there is no need for european regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we have the strongest support for you.
president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for the wide-ranging discussion. i would like to make a few points. firstly, with respect to the constitutional treaty, mr cohn-bendit, i must of course object to the comparison of the council with a darkroom! the fact that there is a bright light of transparency, namely the parliament, and on the other side a darkroom, namely the council - that is not, in my view, the right relationship we should have with each other! the treaties of rome were the work of the council, and parliament is, so to speak, the result of that work. we want parliament to be of great importance, we want a broad debate to take place. we must not forget that you - the members of parliament - bring europe to the people, that you are a very important link, along with all the other opinion-formers. but i would also ask that you respect the fact that the representatives of the democratically elected governments are doing their job with the best of their knowledge and conscience, and that only the cooperation of the commission, the council and parliament will bring us to a reasonable capacity to act. the issue of the referendum was raised. i will be honest: i am not in favour of a referendum taking place on the same day throughout europe or in the countries where it is possible - not only because germany could not take part in it, but also because we should make clear what is stated in the constitutional treaty: the member states are the masters of the treaties, that is the way it is. the member states must therefore decide for themselves how they will legitimise this treaty, depending on its nature, and then transfer competences to europe. but i am also in favour of having a democratic europe in which the commission and parliament work very closely together. what are we gonna do? the situation is complicated, of course, as everyone knows. the starting point is the existing contract. i'm very skeptical that another convent will help us now. we must try to put forward the things that the convention has worked out correctly and that have been partly changed in the council - there is a long debate on this. i would like to say a word to our colleague from the united kingdom: this constitutional treaty - which is almost antagonistic - is precisely a treaty which involves the national parliaments more closely, which creates more clarity and more precision. the fact that those who want more clarity, participation and subsidiarity are opposing this constitutional treaty makes things so difficult for us, because it was drawn up precisely because we recognised that citizens must be more involved. we now have the means to bring legal proceedings, we now speak with one voice where europe has competence, but we are also more reserved where europe has no competence. i simply ask you - i know i am now working on a very thick board - not to make a historic mistake and prevent europe from taking a step in the direction you want in many places. (applause from the centre) the only practical course of action is this: we are consulting confidentially and first of all we are finding out what complaints each member state is facing. the time for general debates about whether or not we need it, whether or not we should do it, is over. we must now be very specific about this, otherwise we shall not get there in my view. i would like to say again that i have only very gently indicated this in my speech earlier. those who are very much in favour of enlargement - and i am not necessarily one of them - must know that if they are also sceptical of the constitutional treaty, there will be no enlargement on the present legal basis. (applause from the centre) we are coming to exactly that point in the context of croatia. this may be the next candidate, but it is the entire western balkans. i told you, we have thousands of soldiers there. what's the perspective supposed to be? that we're arguing about whether or not we're making any progress? whether a meeting is wise or not is settled. we will ensure during our presidency that there are no good and bad members, but that we come to a common result. but the 18 member states which have already ratified it have done so out of conviction. germany is one of them. the 18 will certainly not say: 'ok, let's do something about the enlargement and leave the rest to chance.' that certainly won't work in europe. that is why it is also important to take into account that the draft constitutional treaty has already been ratified by 18 states. (applause from the centre) i want to end with the constitutional treaty for today. we will of course keep you informed. we shall meet again in berlin in this context and we shall meet again in june. i hope that parliament will support this and i ask those who have expressed their scepticism today to reconsider. we agree that climate protection and energy are the central issues. that is why the commission - the president has spoken to it - has also made proposals on this subject, many of which i think are absolutely right. we shall have to discuss some of them in council. i shall do my utmost to ensure that we can give the council on 8 and 9 march the most specific response possible to the commission's large package. it's not easy. the council's attitude is that of a cooperative body, and anyone who has ever dealt with energy matters knows that the cooperative attitude which the council is now adopting is in fact a preamble to the constitution. the question of power is the first time that energy is mentioned in the draft constitutional treaty. it's a modern answer to our challenges. the european construction began with coal and steel. in our modern society, energy efficiency, energy security, solidarity between member states and external energy policy have the same importance as coal and steel had in the past. if we don't find an answer to that, we're in deep shit. of course, that includes climate action, and of course, that includes promoting renewable energy, improving energy efficiency, incorporating biofuels. mr cohn-bendit, there will of course be further disagreement on the question of nuclear energy. i want to say here, as a supporter, personally, that i believe that the paths to saving and to renewable energy must be followed with great vigour. i am not saying that we should see these as contradictions, but that we should see them as part of the same whole. (applause from the centre) i would also like to say something about the welfare state model: europe is inconceivable without a european welfare state model. this welfare state model has been under pressure from globalisation. so we have to look at how we can continue to guarantee prosperity to the people. it's not going to be easy. in 1900, 26 percent of the world's population was european. today, it is about 12-14%. at the beginning of the 22nd century, it will be only 4 or 5%. we have to make sure that we keep what we've worked so hard for. i checked it out: the council has already decided that an impact assessment must also be carried out in the social field, and we will ask the commission once again on behalf of the council to make greater use of this instrument and to make it a normal instrument. the experience of the social market economy in germany, however, is that it has made it possible to reconcile capital and labour. so i ask you not to play these things against each other. there are those who want to do away with bureaucracy and those who want to save social security. these are not contradictions, but they are part of the european welfare state model. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only through freedom, competition and trust in people can i also empower people to create something again that means prosperity for all citizens. social policy always means compensation for the weaker, and there is no question of that, otherwise the social market economy and the european social model are inconceivable! (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this week, an excellent informal council was held in dresden. yes, we are committed to the treaty of prüm! i believe that the common space of law and security is something that people want very fundamentally. of course, the balance between data protection and information exchange is subject to difficult discussions. the reason why i am perhaps not entirely on the side of the liberal group is that i would not be a member of that group if i were in the european parliament. but the discussion must be held again and again! the last point on cutting red tape: the nation states know what they have to do. it is not helpful to blame one another for our problems. it is simply that the much-vaunted acquis communautaire has not diminished over the years, but has grown. i have had the blessing of experiencing the unification of germany, when the entire german legal system came into force at one stroke. i am speaking on behalf of the new member states, which have had the good fortune to have the entire acquis communautaire put in place in one fell swoop, so to speak. i simply dare to raise certain questions. it is not really against europe to check whether all the legislation is up to date, whether it has not been overlaid over time to the extent that we can summarize some of it, whether modern methods do not exist today, so that there is no longer any need for 10-page application forms. i shall never forget how the fishermen in my constituency, on complaint, simply and poignantly threw the first applications for fisheries aid into the wastepaper basket because they could not imagine that all this could be filled in. it is not really a question of taking away security, but of making europe attractive and livable despite the experience of bureaucracy. in this spirit, let us also tackle this subject. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank mrs president-in-office of the council and chancellor angela merkel for this important contribution, which gives great courage to the vast majority of the european parliament. in the basic questions, your views and convictions are the same as those of the vast majority of the european parliament. that's why this was a good debate. i wish you every success in your difficult but also beautiful task. i am also pleased that you will be back in the european parliament on 13 february when the president of parliament presents his work programme.
president of the commission. mr president, i would just like to refer to some of the points that were highlighted during our very fruitful debate, especially now that chancellor merkel has also referred to energy. many speakers referred to energy and to the importance of energy in relation to third countries, namely russia. mr daul said that we need to speak with a common voice externally – i agree. but let us be frank: to speak with one common voice externally, we cannot go on speaking with 27 different voices internally. we need a common market, an integrated market, for energy. we also need a clear energy policy internally. without coherence we are not credible. i emphasise the issue of energy very strongly because, apart from its value in itself, it is one of the most powerful drivers for the european project. let us not forget that the european communities started after the creation of the european coal and steel community. the same day that the treaty of rome was signed for the european economic community, the euratom treaty was also signed. since the very beginning, energy has been at the core of the european project. today, if there is a matter where the idea of solidarity applies, it is precisely this issue of energy. but we are linking energy with climate change because climate change is one of the most important challenges – if not the most important challenge – of the 21st century. our founding fathers could not make a reference to it in the messina declaration or in the rome treaties, but we now have a duty to put that as a very important global challenge. that brings us to the nature of our european union. the old question of more or less europe belongs in the 20th century. the debate now is not whether we need europe, but how to make it work properly and in a more efficient way. we need more efficient decision-making, more democratic accountability in an enlarged europe and a more coherent external position of the european union. those are the basic reasons why we need a constitutional settlement, not because of any theological discussion about a superstate in europe. no one is really proposing a superstate, a centralised state in europe. what we are proposing is a european union dimension that is indispensable to meeting the challenges of the 21st century. that is quite obvious! even germany, the biggest member state, or britain, france or italy, cannot meet those challenges alone. that is why we need the added value of our union. we must also look pragmatically at areas where we can do more and at areas where we can do less. one area where we can and should do less is bureaucracy. we have to reduce bureaucracy, and we must have better regulation to improve the conditions for our companies and for our citizens. therefore, it is not a question of more, or less, europe, but of a better europe. if we work in the spirit of partnership we have seen today – of course, with democratic debate – between parliament, the council and the commission, we can achieve results during these six months. i should like to promise the president-in-office and the president of parliament that we will try to achieve real results during these six months so that our european union can make progress and so that we can look forward to the next 50 years with hope and with pride. (applause)
president of the commission, thank you for your statement and for your commitment. i think this was a very good day for the european parliament. it was a very good day for the future of our union. colleagues, i thank you all for staying until the end of the debate. i wish you a good day and good work for our commitment for the european union. (applause) written statements (rule 142)
madam president, i too would like to congratulate you on your election. the unjustified condemnation by libya of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor shocks people not only in bulgaria but throughout europe, including my own home in germany. we all remember the almost historic handshake between former commission president romano prodi and libyan president gaddafi. that was the end of april 2004. libya was talking about a strategy of serious rapprochement with europe. the country has not officially renounced this. but three years later we are dealing with a judgment which must seem grotesque to us and which tramples on the convictions on which the eu is founded. five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor are sentenced to death for allegedly infecting children with aids at al-fatih hospital. there's no evidence of this. the trial was not fair. these children are victims of aids, not victims of nurses. the eu's values and principles are inalienable. this includes the rejection of the death penalty as well as the observance of justice and the law. both are threatened by the procedure under discussion. the fact is that citizens of the european union have been sentenced to death in a discriminatory, legally highly questionable procedure. in april 2004, colonel gaddafi and romano prodi spoke of a relationship of trust between the two sides. but such a faith can only exist if it is strengthened by action. the european union is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective system of cooperation between the member states and the union. president gaddafi must know that we europeans stand in solidarity with the prisoners and their families. we hope for their sake that they can return to their homes as soon as possible. we therefore say that the implementation of the resolution, the release of the bulgarian european citizens and the palestinian doctor will help libya on its way to closer ties with the european union, a path which would bring enormous benefits to both sides. i think that we should also have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i thank the european parliament and in particular its rapporteur, mr raul romeva i rueda, for the presentation of this report. the council and the member states acknowledge the work of mr romeva, who has been rapporteur for this annual report on the european union code of conduct for the past four years. i would also stress that the council welcomes many of the recommendations in the report and will also seek to implement them, and i can mention a few: further development of best practice in applying the criteria of the code, improvement of national and european union consolidated annual reports, full implementation of the common position on arms brokering monitoring, continuing to invite members of the european parliament to certain seminars and workshops, continuing the practice of the eu presidency, presenting the work of the council working group on arms exports in the subcommittee on security and defence and inviting the rapporteur to meet the working group. furthermore, the european union and the member states will fully support the negotiations on an international arms trade treaty, as stated by the council in its conclusions of 11 december 2006, which stated inter alia that: the council welcomes the formal launch of the process of developing a legally binding international arms trade treaty through the adoption of the resolution on an international arms trade treaty, establishing common international standards for the import, export and transfer of conventional arms, by the united nations general assembly on 6 december 2006. in particular, the council welcomed the fact that the operational sections of the resolution request the secretary-general to seek the views of the member states on the feasibility and possible scope and the preliminary criteria for a comprehensive binding legal instrument. the same applies to the establishment of a group of government experts to start work in 2008 to examine these issues. the council therefore reaffirmed in its conclusions that the european union and its individual member states will play an active role in this process. the european union and all other member states of the united nations are invited to actively support the process of drafting an arms trade treaty, to submit their views to the secretary-general and to participate in the work of the group of governmental experts.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, the responsibility for the control and monitoring of arms sales is of course the primary responsibility of the member states. the commission is, however, associated with it through its role in the common foreign and security policy. your rapporteur, raül romeva i rueda, has once again produced an excellent report calling on the member states to do more and better in terms of the rigour, harmonisation, transparency of controls and monitoring of eu arms exports. improvements in european controls can and should encourage other regions of the world to adopt and apply good practice, at least initially. we must ensure that perfectly legitimate exports do not end up in the wrong hands, which will contribute to armed conflict or human rights violations. the report you have drawn up, mr romeva i rueda, although it was originally written for the member states, contains elements which are being followed up by the commission. i shall therefore, on behalf of mrs benita ferrero-waldner, share with you our comments and observations on these points. firstly, the commission welcomes the new attention your report has given to the issue of private security companies and is in favour of developing a mechanism to regulate their activities. this is somewhat related to the question of security sector reform, in which private companies, like state institutions, must operate in accordance with the principles of democratic control, accountability, respect for human rights and respect for the rule of law. the european community actively supports all security sector reform activities in many regions of the world. effective arms export controls are helping to achieve this. the commission also plays an active role in the fight against the illicit spread of small arms and light weapons. we share the analysis that improved control and monitoring of arms exports and related activities, such as brokering, can help reduce illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons, as their proliferation contributes to armed violence and human insecurity and fuels regional and internal conflicts. we are also working with member states, within the framework of the common foreign and security policy, on the implementation of the european strategy against the illicit spread of small arms and light weapons and their ammunition, adopted by the council in december 2005. the commission has been working for some time with international and regional organisations, research centres, ngos and civil society against the consequences of inappropriate or illicit arms sales. we need to be aware of these challenges and be able to respond to them. in a number of regions of the world, such trafficking may be linked to the trafficking of drugs or raw materials such as tropical essences, minerals or diamonds. in 2007, the commission will use its presidency of the kimberley process to help improve the implementation of controls. we must prevent the trafficking of diamonds for the purchase of weapons by rebel groups. we must also keep a close eye on the illicit trafficking of arms by air. i am aware that this mode of transport is used in many traffic, particularly in the direction of the african continent, and we must involve all the customs authorities in order to prevent it. it is true that the international context is not favourable to negotiation and the adoption of legally binding multilateral disarmament instruments, but this should not prevent us from strengthening controls on arms exports. we support the efforts of the member states to achieve a treaty on arms trade, even if it will take time to negotiate such a treaty. in the meantime, it is essential that the european union works at national and regional level to improve and strengthen existing measures. finally, the commission is active in assisting the implementation of international instruments and their compliance by the various countries. the implementation of the action programme of the united nations conference on the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons and the ottawa treaty banning anti-personnel mines make an active contribution to human security. i will sum up, mr president, by saying that this report really needs to be taken seriously by all european officials responsible for monitoring arms exports. we must work together to improve our performance in this area. a coherent approach requires the use of a wide range of tools, from international diplomacy and political influence to export controls and development assistance. for the sake of efficiency, these tools must be used in a complementary way. the issue that your report, mr romeva i rueda, very well underlines is that there can be no real human or socioeconomic development without this indispensable security, and your report underlines, if necessary, our responsibility in relation to arms exports in the world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i would like to thank mr romeva i rueda very warmly for the very valuable and very dedicated work he has done as our rapporteur on this subject in recent years and is doing again today. i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for pointing out the commission's activities against arms smuggling and for pointing out a fact that we all know, namely that any economic development in developing countries is a prerequisite for establishing security first. without security, there is no economic development. the romeva report is about the common rules on arms exports. the problem is that although we share the same rules as the code of conduct, it is not binding. how can we achieve legal binding? first, by the fact that individual member states declare or legislate the obligation, as is the case, for example, in the federal republic of germany. but we can also achieve this by means of a common european regulation, a common position. that is the path we are on now, and that is the path we must continue on. the real problem is that we have in principle common rules, but these rules are implemented by 27 different administrations in 27 member states, and they are also handled in very different ways. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, we have an arms embargo on china. but what can be exported to china, what falls under this concept of the arms embargo, is subject to rules which are interpreted differently in the 27 member states, and in the united states the interpretation is again different. we must not allow this to continue; we need more common ground here. we are on the way to a common defence policy. this includes the development of joint forces. many people have not realised that we already have forces under european command in bosnia and herzegovina, for example, and that these forces are bringing peace and security there. we also need a common market in defence. we have also made substantial progress in this area in recent years. but if we do these two things, then we also need more common ground on arms export control. this is one of the important tasks for the coming years and for the german presidency of the council.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i am hereby giving my support for the raul romeva i rueda report on behalf of my group. we are working very closely together on this. the eu is now the world's number one arms exporter, ahead of the us and russia. within the eu, france, germany and the uk lead the way, but the netherlands, sweden and italy also play a central role. weapons exports are killing, including arms exports from the eu. this is a massive human rights violation that must be stopped. what is the role of the code of conduct? i would like to quote from a paper by the joint conference church and society in germany. it says: 'however, the code of conduct has not led to a reduction in european arms exports. according to sipri surveys, eu countries surpassed russia and the us as the main arms exporters in 2005. it is a scandal that the eu code is still a self-imposed obligation of the member states. the council's common position is required and it must be legally binding for all. now the european union has set up a defence agency. the european defence agency is responsible for promoting the defence industry within the european union. i quote from the same report as before: the european defence agency has also become an instrument for promoting european arms cooperation, but without the corresponding arms control efforts. that's the problem. that is why we have tabled an amendment which aims to ensure that there is an agency for disarmament and not an armaments agency. instead of promoting arms exports with the arms agency, it is necessary to stop these arms exports. i would like to give a few specific examples to illustrate the countries to which exports are made. germany exports to iraq amounted to eur 28.9 million in 2004 alone and eur 25 million in 2005. the following countries to which exports are made are mentioned: afghanistan, algeria, egypt, bangladesh, india, indonesia, iraq, israel, jordan, kazakhstan, qatar, colombia, malaysia, nigeria, oman, pakistan, the russian federation, saudi arabia, singapore, thailand, tunisia and the united arab emirates. that's clearly too much. that is why we say: arms exports must be stopped, arms exports must be killed, and that must stop! i expect the european union and the german presidency to take steps in this direction and to stop supporting the defence agency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the european union must stop these arms exports!
the commission's vice-president mr president, in this debate parliament has once again demonstrated its considerable expertise in the field of arms trade management. i would like to thank mr romeva i rueda again, who has personally acquired a very good knowledge of this difficult but very important subject. we are seeing how the proliferation of weapons around the world is fuelling all kinds of violence here and there. i have also noted the concern expressed by many of you that the european union should play a leading role in the united nations in the prospect of international regulation of the arms trade. i believe that parliament is thus contributing to the process of strengthening european control of this trade, which has so many implications: there is a very important ethical dimension to this. i therefore thank all the members who have spoken in this excellent debate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. as rapporteur for the european parliament, i recommend to parliament that tomorrow the national railway networks not only be opened up to crossborder passenger services by all railway companies, whether public or private, from whatever country they originate, as envisaged by the council, but that they also be opened up to national passenger services at a later date. the european parliament has held this view since 2003. we have always believed that the european internal market must finally be achieved in the railway sector, so that fair competition between railway companies can make it possible to offer more and cheaper services to rail passengers. the committee on transport and tourism has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission is also proposing that the member states which joined on 1 may 2004 or later should be able to extend this deadline by a further five years to allow their railway companies more time to prepare for the internal market and competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same restrictions as the railways in the other member states. the citizens have a right to efficient and low-cost passenger transport, including at national level. the committee on transport and tourism agrees with the council and the commission that member states do not have to open their networks or only partially if opening them would jeopardise regional and local passenger transport. we agree with this, because regional and local transport is of central importance to our citizens, also for environmental reasons. however, as regards the whole package which the council has devised to further restrict the opening of the network, madam president, we do not agree with you. the committee proposes to reject the introduction of the criterion of the main purpose and the priority of long-term concession contracts. i am very pleased that the portuguese presidency shares this parliament's position in annex ii to the common position. in fact, if the requirements of the internal market - which should have been achieved by now - are weighed against the specific interests of public passenger and regional transport, the restriction of the opening of the network is already sufficiently ensured by the special provision in favour of public transport. the committee has not followed my recommendation to abolish completely the general compulsory charge for all forms of passenger transport introduced by the council as a surprise in favour of public transport; rather, it recommends amendments. in the conciliation procedure, parliament and the council should reconsider together whether such a levy is actually appropriate to the matter or the system or whether it merely risks promoting a targeted obstacle to the opening up of the network. the committee also recommends adopting the new transit arrangements, the derogations for malta and cyprus and the amended wording amending directive 14/2001 in favour of more effective high-speed railway planning. i would like to ask you, mr barrot, as vice-president of the commission, to ensure that the commission agrees with parliament's position. the statements made by your staff in the committee that they see no reason for the network to be opened up to national traffic also, in my view, contradict the commission's long-standing conviction. i would remind you that in 1985 the commission published the famous white paper on the european internal market. if you take that into account, it is clear that the principle has been in force ever since that it is not the completion of the internal market but the refusal of the internal market that needs a justification, and you have not provided one for that. finally, i would appeal to the presidency of the council to initiate the conciliation procedure immediately, because i do not think you will accept parliament's proposals in toto. let us begin the conciliation procedure in february so that we can finish it in the summer under the german presidency. i believe we need this third railway package for the citizens and the economy of europe. let's decide together in the summer.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on behalf of minister tiefensee, who unfortunately cannot be here because of an important appointment, i thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today. we are at the beginning of the german presidency of the council and with the forthcoming vote on the proposals for the third railway package, we have one of the most important dossiers on the agenda in the transport sector this half-year. these three measures will bring us a step closer to the complete opening up of the market and thus to the completion of the european railway area. they are continuing what we started with the first catalogues of measures. with the first railway package adopted in 2001, we have enabled each railway freight company to effectively use the neighbouring railway network in crossborder traffic on its own. the adoption of the second railway package has been another milestone in the much needed realisation of a single railway market in europe. this has been achieved by making the opening of freight markets a reality as of 1 january 2007. this is a great step forward, one which the council and parliament can be equally proud of. we need this market opening urgently, because freight traffic is growing immensely. i don't know what to say. the commission calculates that by 2020 road freight transport will increase by 45%, i.e. 1.5 million additional lorries. unlike the road, the railway still has a great potential that we can exploit. we therefore urgently need more rail freight. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this includes, among other things, the fact that the staff who carry out the transport of goods, in particular the so-called train drivers, can be deployed effectively across borders without hindrance. such arrangements are laid down in the so-called directive on the certification of drivers of motor vehicles, which is the subject of this decision. i do not see any major differences between the council and parliament in this act, but i would like to make two points: the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of certification for the safety of personnel in the transport sector. in principle, this approach is correct. just who are they? the term 'other personnel entrusted with security tasks' is so vague that we do not know who will fall under it. i think it makes sense that we should clarify this first. it is only then that we can decide on the conditions and conditions under which certification is necessary. the council's common position has taken account of this. the common position provides that the involvement of the other staff is to be examined by the european railway agency. the railway agency can therefore help us to identify the conditions under which certification is still useful beyond the train drivers. we should wait for the results of the railway agency's audit before we rush to regulate this point in the directive. secondly, amendment no 23 proposes that when the engine driver changes to another company, compensation for the cost of training should be provided by law. the council and parliament are in agreement on the substance of this. but why should we regulate this by law when contractual solutions could be much better? the council's common position provides that the social partners are to be contractually responsible for the cost of training. there is no difference in the matter in that respect. i now turn to the second act of the third railway package, the proposal on passenger rights and obligations. this is not only about improving consumer rights but also about making rail transport in the community more attractive. the importance of this draft regulation for persons with reduced mobility, for whom rail travel is to be considerably facilitated, should also be emphasized. the council's common position is in many respects in line with the european parliament's demands. for example, the cotif/civ provisions on the liability of railway undertakings for damage to passengers and luggage and the conclusion of transport contracts are included. however, there are differences, particularly as regards the scope of the regulation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. however, this was a particularly difficult point for the council to reach agreement on. the compromise reached in the common position should not therefore be jeopardized from the presidency's point of view. this is also the case for the third and final act of the third railway package, the liberalisation directive. the common position, which we have worked hard to achieve with all the member states, provides for the opening of international passenger transport markets from 2010 onwards, including cabotage in connection with an international journey, but without opening up national networks in the first place. the european parliament's transport committee's agreement to the 2010 date for international transport is to be expressly welcomed. on the very difficult subject of the opening up of national networks, you as a parliament have proposed a new compromise. this move is particularly commendable. we have serious doubts, however, about the consistency of this proposal. in this respect, this compromise proposal also represents a departure from the gradual approach to liberalization which has been followed up to now. it is therefore to be feared that many member states will not regard this new compromise as a compromise. the question that arises in the case of national opening is whether we are not putting too many member states under pressure. in view of the joint adoption of all three legislative proposals, it is permissible to ask whether we are not building much more urgent solutions in the transport of goods by imposing maximum requirements for passenger transport. i am aware that it will not be easy to reach an understanding here. rail passenger services in europe must be designed to be attractive and reliable. parliament and the council must therefore share and fulfil a common responsibility. i think i can say that the third railway package is too important for all of us to say that we are not all interested in a deal. the german presidency will do all it can to make it a success and to achieve the much needed integrated railway area. this requires courageous change, but also restraint and sometimes a little patience. the council and parliament have often shown their good will and found a compromise acceptable to both sides from opposing positions. we are not afraid to seek a viable compromise in a reasonable conciliation procedure. i would ask the house not to make the achievement of consensus an impossible goal by introducing a large number of serious amendments. i think the message has arrived! (applause from the centre)
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the progress made in this third railway package since march 2004. this is a set of legislative proposals of a certain technical and legal complexity. i would also like to thank in particular mr jarzembowski, mr savary and mr sterckx, all three of whom have done a very good job. almost three years after the commission adopted the initial proposals, parliament and the council have to find a compromise on all the texts, as mrs roth has just explained very well. first of all, i would like to point out that with one exception, the whole legislative package as proposed by the commission has been upheld by parliament and the council. there is an overall logic behind these proposals which will make it possible to europeanise rail. i would add that the new proposal on public service obligations has also made good progress, even if it is not on the agenda today, and i think that a reading of the third railway package in parallel with this proposal will make it possible to reach an overall compromise at the end of the legislative procedure. of course, as you said, madam minister, we must all make an effort. the commission is prepared to do so and your commissioner will endeavour to play a mediating role. the following are some observations on the three reports. i shall first of all thank mr jarzembowski. the commission welcomes the fact that the council and parliament have reached a consensus on the opening of the market for international cabotage services, which would take place in 2010, as proposed by the commission. however, the opening up of the domestic services market poses some problems. in 2004, the commission had merely proposed the opening of the market for international services. the commission concluded, on the basis of its analysis, that the financial and regulatory conditions were not in place to justify wider opening-up. the operation of domestic lines, and especially regional lines in some countries of the european union, is particularly difficult and not always profitable, it must be said. it is true, mr jarzembowski, that the introduction of more competition in this market is beneficial to increase operational efficiency, but we have tried to achieve this by harmonized regulation of public service obligations. we are therefore not at all opposed to the principle of opening up the market for domestic services, but we believe that a decision under this third railway package may be premature. we would like to assess the question in the light of a more detailed analysis and we would like to take into account other elements contained in the proposal on public service obligations for which mr meijer is the rapporteur. that is why, mr jarzembowski, we are reserved about opening up domestic traffic. however, i can support many of parliament's amendments on other articles of the text, such as the provision for extending to 15 years the period of coverage of framework agreements for the provision of capacity in the case of specialised infrastructure. we are also in favour of a change in the wording of the article on framework agreements, of clarifying the scope of the charge levied to finance public services and the arrangements for this purpose, or of replacing the concept of economic equilibrium with that of profitability for the analysis of the possible impact of cabotage on a public service existing in the context of an international service. that is the first proposal on which mr jarzembowski has worked very hard. the second proposal is that of mr savary, which i note has been unanimously approved by the commission. as mr savary has very well said, this proposal makes it possible to achieve human interoperability, which is as important as the interoperability of hardware. you have restored the scope originally proposed by the commission. in an increasingly open railway network, it seems to us important to ensure that the staff - which you have specified as train safety personnel and not just drivers - are properly trained and in good health. i have noted mrs roth's comments, but i think there is a possibility of reaching an agreement. i would like to make a few reservations, mr savary, about certain amendments concerning the financing of training. you proposed that a railway undertaking employing a train driver whose training was financed in whole or in part by another railway undertaking, and who left voluntarily after less than five years of service, should reimburse the company which provided the training for part of the cost of the training. we agree in principle, but it is true that the amendment raises problems, particularly legal ones. is it not the fact of a more contractual approach? the commission is reluctant to intervene in an area where we have very little factual data; we don't fully know the scale of the problem or the possible options for solving it. with that reservation, mr savary, we agree with this proposal, which was unanimously adopted by the commission. i come now to mr sterckx's report on the rights and obligations of international rail passengers. the first problem is the scope and extension of the directive to domestic services. mrs roth has just explained to us that this scope of application was causing some problems in the council. i would like to say to you, however, mr sterckx, that i think it is necessary to admit that it is impossible to distinguish between the sections of the different sleepers, because otherwise users would never know what their rights are, as you have very well said. the commission will therefore support your amendments and will help to reach a compromise with the council on this point. moreover, an approach which leaves more freedom to the member states for all rail services subject to public service contracts seems logical and should facilitate this compromise. the other issue is that of civil liability in the event of an accident. your request to establish strict liability for railway companies would bring their liability into line with that of airlines. in this respect, it reflects the commission's approach and that is why i can support this ambitious approach, even if it goes beyond the cotif/cim scheme. mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, our services will forward to you the detailed position of the commission on each amendment. the commission will of course continue to listen to your debate and will remain at your disposal for any questions that may arise. in conclusion, i will take up your words, madam minister. i believe that we must do everything we can to bring this third railway package to fruition. it would be a real pity to pass up this chance to revalue the whole railway sector in europe. we need the railway to transfer part of the freight, in particular from the road to the railway. it is essential that this third railway package is on track and able to reach its destination. i thank all of you for the excellent work already done and i urge you to do your utmost to bring it to fruition.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. i would like to welcome you, mr president, mr commissioner, and welcome you, mrs roth, as the representative of the presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen. as the rapporteur and you, commissioner, have already said, the eu train driving licence which will be put to the vote tomorrow is an important step towards opening up rail transport across europe. the train driving licence is part of the third railway package. the package also includes two other legislative procedures which are important to us, namely compensation for rail passengers and the opening up of crossborder passenger transport from 2010. these three legislative procedures create the necessary conditions for the full liberalisation of rail transport in the eu to succeed. the eu train driving licence is particularly important in view of the eu-wide opening of the freight transport market, which came into force at the beginning of the year. it saves time and money. at present, each of the 27 eu member states has different requirements for which train staff must be certified and in what way. the recognition of the different train licences has been associated with a great deal of bureaucracy, but these problems will hopefully be eliminated by the eu-wide standardisation in question. the fact that this eu train driving licence will significantly increase the freedom of movement of railway workers and also bring greater safety in rail transport will be another advantage. the driving licence will only be a real success if it also reduces bureaucracy. we have also set the course for this. so we were able to prevent all the staff from being certified, as some wanted. now we will certify the train drivers in a first step and the staff responsible for safety in a second step. they didn't think that was a good solution. but how this second step will be shaped will then be decided by the european railway agency on the basis of experience gained. this is our position. we have also been able to move the date of introduction forward to the end of this year. this rapid introduction is saving railway companies money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's why we're carrying him. i am very satisfied with that. i thank the rapporteur, mr savary, for his excellent cooperation. we shall support this report in the plenary tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the free movement of people across europe from lisbon to tallinn, from london to athens, from paris to warsaw is only possible by road and by air. the railway network, on the other hand, is like a carpet of 27 patches. that's how you keep the train on the track! the national networks are to be opened. we greens want to take account of social and environmental considerations. we must also learn from the mistakes made in england and estonia, for example. not only were the networks opened up, but the infrastructure was privatised. it was a disaster! that is why, and also because of the experience of the monopoly structures of the electricity companies in europe, we say as a conditio sine qua non: the infrastructure must remain in public hands! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway sector is not left behind. an international european train ticket is something of an exotic. i cannot be in favour of french railway companies operating on the german network while the french network is cut off from other operators. the european train driving licence eliminates the need to change drivers at the border between member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. the aim is to make it possible to take sports equipment and bicycles with you by means of a multifunctional compartment in all trains, including high-speed trains such as the tgv or the ice. the commission is proposing to make the provision of comprehensive information on european rail links and the purchase of europe-wide tickets the rule rather than the exception. access for passengers with reduced mobility shall be ensured. the national rail networks should be open to long-distance passenger services by 2017 at the latest and for the new member states by 2022. but we will give our consent on the following condition: there must be no social dumping and no ruinous competition! we know that the opening up of the networks has led to a considerable increase in rail freight traffic. but we also know that the member states which have closed themselves off are in decline. in france, only five railway companies are authorised. tonne-kilometres transported there decreased by 28% between 1999 and 2005. in germany, more than 700 railway companies are licensed. in the netherlands, the increase was more than 40%. these are success stories! we want to transfer these positive results to passenger transport. that is why we want the networks to be opened up in european passenger transport too! i thank the rapporteurs and my colleagues for their cooperation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the railways are the most urgently in need of political support. the third railway package will take us a little further. the reports by mr savary and mr sterckx are indisputable, and i thank the rapporteurs. we must not only involve the train drivers, but also the other staff. we must not only take care of the passengers in crossborder traffic, but also of passengers in general. the controversy is and this has always been the traditional way we think about market opening. we have traditionally had a difficult time with this, both in the council and in the commission. this has a lot to do with national protection mechanisms, but also with fears. we must respect such positions, of course, but they do not help us in the outcome. the liberalization of rail transport could be neglected if other transport sectors - as has been pointed out repeatedly in recent years - had not been liberalized without regard to social and environmental costs, with dramatic consequences. we have seen enormous growth in road and air transport between 1995 and 2004. the railroad is always lagging behind and stagnating. the future looks even more bleak. by 2020, freight volumes will increase by 50%, passenger traffic by 35%. the expected 35% increase in passenger traffic will benefit transport operators in different ways: air travel is up by 108%, cars by 36% and rail by just 19%. these projections are from the commission. these figures cannot seriously satisfy anyone! it may well be that there are already increases in passenger numbers on the national level. but you have to look at the big picture. if i also take into account that a person emits a tonne of co2 into the atmosphere when travelling 17 000 km by rail, whereas in the case of air travel this pollution is already reached at 3 000 km, then one can very well come to different conclusions as regards the opening up of the railway market. we are not talking today about the meijer report, because the meijer report is coming soon, nor about the port package, but we are talking about opening up the market for energy and environmental reasons. and as for maximum demands, dear secretary of state, dear karin roth: 2017/2022 this is not a demand with a crowbar. it is very gentle and it is also considerate of the small member states. both the council and parliament have put in place safeguard mechanisms for the small member states. of course, these countries must be given special protection and consideration. so once again, if the railways are to have a real chance, we must allow a piece of the market to open up here. i look forward to the conciliation procedure and hope for a very compromise-minded and active presidency of the council which will then lead us to a happy ending.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking today about three major steps which will help to revive our european railways and will mean a considerable increase in consumer rights. i would like to single out just one aspect of the overall package which is perfectly suited to the beginning of the european year of equal opportunities. it is good that we are making a mark with the regulation on the rights and obligations of rail passengers and thus contributing to equal opportunities. it is obviously pointless to adopt a regulation which is only relevant to cross-border passengers. i believe that passenger rights apply equally to all travellers. the first priority is the right of all citizens to be promoted. but it is only when each passenger knows his rights that he can exercise them. that is why we have the duty to inform and educate. i demand that every person with reduced mobility, whether caused by disability, age or any other factor, should have equal access to rail travel. this is clear: we need to continuously improve accessibility without barriers. it is also clear that it is impossible to adapt all vehicles and structures to the legitimate needs of the people concerned. once the regulation enters into force, station managers and railway undertakings will pay particular attention to ensuring that persons with reduced mobility receive information on the accessibility of rail services, on the conditions of access to vehicles and on their equipment. in order to ensure that passengers with reduced sensory perception are informed of delays in the best possible way, we require that information be transmitted by means of acoustic and optical systems. persons with reduced mobility will be able to buy tickets on the train without surcharge and, if a person is unable to access the services offered on the train due to his or her reduced mobility, he or she will be able to be accompanied by another person who will travel free of charge. a social europe is on the move!
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs hedkvist petersen very sincerely for the fight - the word is fair - she has waged for road safety. madam president, you have not only made an excellent report but you have also, on many occasions in this parliament, shown the importance of road safety. the motion for a resolution shows a broad consensus between parliament, the council and the commission on this priority and on the need for action at european level. i'm going to give you a quick overview of our fight against road safety. in terms of overall results, we deplored 50,000 road deaths in 2001 and our aim is to not exceed 25,000 by 2010. in 2005, there were still 41,600 murders in the eu-25. it is absolutely necessary to update our mid-term review with the first results for 2006. this year has been better than the previous ones. we have progressed by 9%, and some countries that were stagnating have made significant progress. the member states of the 2004 enlargement have made more progress overall than the fifteen. these achievements are fragile, but they deserve to be celebrated. however, there are disparities between the best performing and the worst performing countries. the difference is in a range of 1 to 3 in the number of deaths per million inhabitants, or 1 to 5 in the number of deaths per million passenger cars. the community initiatives since 2001 have been effective. road safety has become a major political concern in most member states. for example, most countries have national road safety plans. we have passed legislation on driving and rest periods for professional drivers, adopted measures on vehicle safety, and launched education and awareness campaigns. we have also adopted the third directive on driving licences, which will provide greater protection, particularly for motorcyclists. the evaluation presented by the commission in february 2006 was merely factual and we are preparing new initiatives. we must fill a gap in the current legislation on mirrors to remove the blind spot of existing heavy goods vehicles. we need to speed up the installation of that mirror. we cannot wait for the total renewal of the truck fleet in europe, i.e. more than 15 years, for this practical and inexpensive measure to have its full effect. i am counting heavily on the european parliament to support this acceleration of the introduction of the mirror to remove the blind spot of the existing heavy goods vehicles. we have put a proposal on the table of the co-legislators on the management of the safety of the infrastructure of the transeuropean network. it is a toolbox to enable member states to better manage the security of their network. secondly, we must ensure that no one can expect to go unpunished for traffic offences on the grounds that they were committed abroad. i will make a formal proposal this summer on the cross-border prosecution of the most serious traffic offences. we have also launched a consultation on the obligation to drive lights during the day. we haven't made a decision yet. we must have the views of the member states and of the users. however, the key to winning the battle for security is that we must remain in direct contact with the citizens. this is why we launched the european road safety charter in april 2004. the charter has 650 signatories from the road safety community: companies, motoring clubs, associations, schools, media, municipalities, to name just a few. by signing the charter, the actors agree to take responsibility and to take concrete and measurable action in their sphere of responsibility. finally, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a european road safety day will be held for the first time on 27 april 2007. this day coincides with the united nations world road safety week and i invite the house and every member of parliament to join us in this event which is very dear to us. in conclusion, mr president, i would once again like to stress the quality of the document prepared by mrs hedkvist petersen. it expresses a reasoned view of the future. it not only focuses on short-term priorities, but also describes promising solutions for the medium term, which are also being worked on by the commission services. i am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that we are converging on this point, but i would like to say that the death toll of over 40 000 on the roads brings us back to our major responsibility in the field of road safety. that is why i thank parliament, mr president, for its involvement and its total commitment to improving it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank mrs hedkvist petersen for her good and trusting cooperation over many years. mrs hedkvist petersen, thank you very much for your excellent report. reducing the number of road deaths on europe's roads to a maximum of 25 000 by 2010 is a very ambitious target in view of the growing traffic volume. but it is attainable we just have to want it! the successes of the past few years are visible, even though many of our laws and measures, particularly those of the last two and a half years, have not yet taken effect because they have not yet been transposed into national law. i'm just reminded of the driver's license policy. despite the great successes, however, we will miss the mark if we do not act with even more ambition and consistency and quickly put into practice what is known and what is new. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national authorities. the report also provides clarity on this point. i would like to suggest six specific categories: first, we are on the right track if we can get existing laws to be better enforced. the key points are: speed limit, no driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs or medication, wearing seat belts, and proper behaviour of pedestrians and cyclists. secondly, we need new european legislation, for example on daytime running lights, the use of so-called blind mirrors and the marking of the contours of lorries. thirdly, we must develop measures to avoid congestion, for example by promoting new logistical systems, by speeding up construction work or by allowing gigabytes of electricity, with particular attention to the criteria. fourthly, we have a responsibility to ensure that regulations on safety and health at work are applied even where the workplace is a vehicle, i.e. a mobile workplace. this includes the provision of adequate medical care for professional drivers during their weekly working hours away from their company headquarters. fifthly, we must not only encourage the use of the most advanced emission technologies, but also the introduction of active safety features such as esp, emergency braking or distance control and driver assistance systems. sixthly, we expect the introduction of the automated emergency call system ecall as soon as possible, particularly in view of the fact that there are already well-established systems for automatically recording accidents and that there is also a campaign for a kind of pedestrian emergency call system.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not safe to move about in traffic. everybody knows that. but of course the transport of people and goods by road is indispensable. it is the most flexible form of transport, and we depend on road transport to function. transport is the lifeblood of our economy. the eu has set itself the goal of making road traffic safer. in fact, it cannot be that so many thousands of people are dying on our roads and highways every year. but we still have over 40,000 deaths. so what do we do? an important and simple measure to further reduce the accident rate would be the introduction of a ban on alcohol on the road for young drivers and for professional drivers in passenger transport and, for example, in the transport of dangerous goods. i therefore call for a zero-per-million regulation for this group of people, who are at increased risk. the driver's licence is newly issued to a driver who has not had any experience in driving, so he is particularly prone to accidents if he drinks alcohol in excess. the driver has a special responsibility when transporting people or dangerous goods. so it's justified that he's completely abstaining from alcohol while driving. there can be no tolerance here. however, adequate traffic controls can also contribute to a significant and sustainable reduction in the number of serious accidents. the member states are called upon to ensure that existing laws are sufficiently enforced, for example by means of driving licences, safety checks or alcohol checks, since not everything needs to be regulated by new and additional european laws. this also applies to a uniform speed limit throughout the eu. i think that the member states should decide this depending on the quality of their motorways and roads. driving fast - and i don't mean in a hurry - doesn't necessarily mean that you have a higher risk of an accident. driving fatigue may be a much greater risk. the question is how to control this, at least in motorized personal transport? but you can control the use of mobile phones while driving. the phone on the driver's ear distracts the driver. the mandatory use of hands-free mobile phones while driving would therefore make a significant contribution to road safety. i do not understand the colleagues who want to prevent something like this. i've already dealt with that problem. a general ban on overtaking vehicles over 12 tonnes would be desirable from my personal point of view as a car driver and especially as a frequent driver, but the question is whether it is realistic. maybe you should pair it to a specific velocity value. i believe that regular, uniform technical safety checks throughout the eu for all motor vehicles are essential. and let me make one further comment: incentives, usually of a fiscal nature, to renew fleets of vehicles would be an excellent tool to solve the safety problem. this is also important from the point of view of environmental protection. the abolition of registration taxes in some member states would be a significant contribution to this. but that is, as we know, a different matter. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work and you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention at this late hour.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the recommendation by mr ribeiro e castro, on behalf of the committee on development, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement amending the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part, signed in cotonou on 23 june 2000 (6987/2006 - c6-0124/2006 - 2005/0071 (avc)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
i have to say, madam president, i am also delighted that you are chairing the meeting today. congratulations on your election. i am not going to go into detail. we have so far held the debate without the commission and the council, and rightly so. the report is the first interim report following the green report adopted in 2003. this report shows very well how we should implement gender mainstreaming in parliament. it was right to concern ourselves with this, but i am a little afraid that we have now missed an opportunity because everyone is talking about god and the world and not about what we can do in our parliament. what about the first point, namely the action plan for a policy of gender mainstreaming, i.e. equality everywhere in any evaluation, analysis and new development of concepts for equality between men and women in parliament? there are still very large deficits, and there is no concrete action plan. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. this working group has done a very good job and the procedure was correct because reports have been drawn up in all the committees. the vice-presidents on the committees have also - as we heard from the committee on the environment - done some very good work, but sometimes that work has been laughed at. what about our demand for women in the decision-making bodies of parliament? we have not taken any concrete steps to make that happen. this demand has been taken differently by the political groups and the national delegations, but there is no good strategy. what is the analysis of the budgetary procedure? we have not taken any concrete steps in this area either. the policy of gender budgeting should be specified. what progress has been made on another 2003 call, the effective press and information strategy? there are still major shortcomings here too. i hope very much that if we now carry out a good analysis and evaluation, we will be able to get help from the european institute for gender equality, which has been set up in the meantime, for evaluation in the committees. but the report does not say enough about the political groups, the delegations and the content of the policy. so i hope that we will be more ambitious, that we will be able to reach agreements by 2009 - when the elections are due - that will really make gender mainstreaming and women in leadership positions possible. i thank you for the work you have done. but we still have a long way to go to achieve the goal we set ourselves in the 2003 report!
i have to say, madam president, congratulations on your election. i would like to express my support for this report, which in my view does not contain any breaches of the rules of procedure of the house. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs záborská, for the excellent cooperation she has shown over the last two and a half years. i was responsible for gender issues in the previous bureau and in the bureau's high-level working group we, together with colleagues roth-behrendt, lulling and gröner and with colleagues friedrich and daul, have pushed forward gender mainstreaming in the work of our committees. i want to thank all of you today. i would also like to thank the staff of the administration, and in particular the equal opportunities department of the directorate-general for personnel. i am confident that the newly elected bureau will continue the work of the high level working group seamlessly and with the same commitment. it has a good basis for doing so, because the old bureau recently unanimously adopted my report on developments in equal opportunities from 2002 to 2006. it sets ambitious targets for 2009. the proportion of women in senior positions here in the house, particularly at the middle and top management levels, is to be significantly increased. we will take further steps to improve the work-life balance of our employees. we will also be taking greater care in future to ensure that gender-neutral language is used in the work of this house. the question of gender budgeting was raised by the bureau. it is a joint task for this house in 2008. i hope that we can introduce appropriate training and further training measures for all our colleagues.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would first like to thank mrs wallis for her work. as you know, we have been discussing this proposal for three and a half years and i believe that, after the improvements made by parliament and the council in both readings, this project has reached maturity, if i may say so. firstly, because the business community and legal practitioners are eagerly awaiting this regulation, which is essential for legal certainty, and secondly because it is a text of crucial importance for the construction of the european area of justice and for the proper functioning of the european internal market. that is why your vote, ladies and gentlemen, is a crucial step for the future of this dossier. i think the best solution would be to avoid a conciliation procedure, but if it were inevitable, it would be essential for the commission to have all the conditions in place after your vote in order to be able to adopt a satisfactory text. i remain confident that a favourable outcome can be found with the support of parliament. like you, madam rapporteur, i regret the absence of specific rules on defamation in the council's common position. we reluctantly accepted the removal of this rule. why would you do that? because no compromise on a text is possible. let me remind you that more than a dozen different options were on the council's table in april 2006. none of them have a chance of succeeding, not now and probably not tomorrow. you also know that the review clause has no chance of succeeding. i am convinced that we must not reopen pandora's box by accepting a provision which is not likely to achieve any consensus between the institutions, as several members of the legal affairs committee had pointed out. another important factor is that the number of international litigations in this area is very limited. you may know that even the associations that represent the press have come to accept this exclusion with a note that i saw sent a few days ago. you have touched on other points which are crucial: the abolition of other special rules concerning competition and the environment. i can tell you quite frankly that it is difficult for me to accept the abolition of the special rules in these matters. the special rule is not always suitable for all particular situations, but in competition matters the special rule is fundamental to me, because it clarifies the general rule in order to locate the affected market. i am therefore pleased that the rapporteur of a major political group is now advocating the maintenance of such a special rule and is supporting this drafting proposal. as far as the environment is concerned, the special rule is aimed at preventing environmental dumping, and in the current political context the commission is the guarantor of a very high level of environmental protection. rome ii, i believe, can help. as for the council, as you know, the majority of the member states which have codified private international law have special rules for both subjects and the council not only advocates the maintenance of these two special rules but has even added other recitals as has the commission. we share the same view that the special rule must increase legal certainty. as far as road accidents are concerned, i share parliament's concern to improve the lot of road accident victims. this is one of the objectives of the proposal. today the legal affairs committee is proposing a new rule that the judge must ensure that the damage is repaired in full. this is a very interesting idea, but i think it is a question of harmonizing the substantive civil law of the member states and not private international law. rome ii, in my view, is not the appropriate framework for such harmonization, but i can confirm to you the interest of seeking, in another context of substantial harmonization, a solution to the problem posed by the legal affairs committee and parliament. as for the question of whether the general rule can lead to satisfactory solutions in this area or whether a new special rule is needed, i remain open to studying this problem in detail, as is also provided for in amendment no 26 of the implementation report. he very quickly raises another point, that of the application of foreign law. this is the subject of amendments nos 12 and 21 and is essential to the hague programme. but i can tell you again that rome ii is not the appropriate framework for such rules, which should apply to all commercial and civil matters. i can commit myself, in a more general context, to study in detail the measures to facilitate the application of foreign law. i can say the same about the directive on the principle of country of origin. the services directive already preserves the application of the rome ii and rome i instruments and therefore the rule proposed in amendment no 24 does not seem to me to be necessary because there is already a guarantee, not because there is no need to clarify this principle.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would also like to thank mrs wallis, who has already touched on the main points. we have heard a lot about the europe of the people this week. if you read the title of this dossier, you might be inclined to assume that many citizens are turning off the lights and saying that non-contractual debt law is difficult. but it's the european classic. it is what most european motorists have thought about: i come from country a, i am in country b, and in an accident i meet a driver from country c, who may have a passenger from country d with him. this is the normal situation and we are continuing to work on the citizens' europe with this dossier. the need to regulate such matters is becoming more urgent as mobility increases and the importance of borders decreases. there are still some things that can be improved. so it is a question of a people's europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. my group will be in favour of keeping parliament's margins as open as possible for this third reading, for this conciliation procedure. we believe that there is still a lot of room for improvement in the wording of the regulations. i would also like to expressly reiterate what mrs wallis has already said: it is a new reality that parliament has to take part in the decision-making here. it will also be a new reality that, when the result of the third reading is known, we will pay very close attention to the matters which may not have had a legal but a political majority in the house at the second reading and we will examine whether this request of parliament can still be taken into account. we shall be very anxious to see what the third reading will bring. we will ensure that the margins for a people's europe remain open.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the third part is a separate question. that is why we have to vote separately. he has nothing to do with the second part.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the first part of amendment no 16 has been adopted, and amendment no 40 is therefore obsolete.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the last few hours there have been two other debates on amendment no 22 and amendment no 47. my group will therefore change its attitude. i would ask the rapporteur to give us some additional information on amendments nos 22 and 47.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in the light of this strong applause, the president is authorized to express his most cordial thanks to you for your work and to wish you well in all respects. i would like to congratulate you on this excellent report and wish you all the best.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. this report is a follow-up to and evaluation of the european parliament's gender mainstreaming policy of 26 february 2003 (doc a5-0060/2003), rapporteur: lissy gröner. this report, 'gender mainstreaming in committee work', takes up some of the issues raised in the 2003 report and assesses the efforts made so far and looks ahead to the implementation of gender mainstreaming. the vote by the epp-ed group has highlighted key passages from the report adopted unanimously by the committee on women's rights. the emphasis on the role of the high level working group, gender budgeting and human resources policy are examples. i am convinced that the zaborska report falls substantially behind the 2003 resolution. that is why i am voting against the report.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday, 18 january 2007.
i am not going to go into detail. i would like to welcome you to the solemn meeting with the president of romania. i would like to welcome you to the european parliament, mr president băsescu. the european parliament is a great example of the european union's ability to act. (applause from the audience) it is an honour, mr president băsescu, to welcome you to the european parliament - not for the first time, but for the first time as president of a new member state of our european union. on behalf of the citizens of the european union represented in this house, i would like to express once again my pleasure at the accession of your country and bulgaria to our european family. i would also like to reiterate the historic importance of the enlargement of the european union on 1 january this year: it took more than 60 years to bring your country back into the fold of free europe and to reunite our continent. the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union has brought great progress in the reunification of our continent. these two accessions will strengthen the political and cultural dimension of european integration and contribute to the mutual enrichment of your country and the union. i am reminded of the words of the "hora unirii", sung on the occasion of the unification of the principalities of moldavia and wallachia in 1859: "where one stands, there is no strength; where there are many, there is strength". this romanian song very well illustrates the aim and vision of the european union: the potential, the power that we can bring together in europe to improve the future of our continent and the prosperity of our citizens. in this sense, romania's membership embodies the idea of european unity, cooperation and solidarity for the benefit of all participants in a union of forces in the spirit of democracy, peace, equality and tolerance. i would like to congratulate romania and the romanian people in particular on the particular progress and related efforts your country has made in the run-up to accession. many reforms were implemented in a relatively short time. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but let me add, mr president, that these reforms must also be pursued with determination. the european parliament is proud and pleased to have 35 new romanian members and a romanian commissioner in this house. we have to be aware of the fact that the commission is not the only one to have to deal with this problem. we are also all very pleased to welcome the colleagues who will be voting in your country's first european elections in may. we all have to learn from each other. we are working on this in the european parliament. together with romania and bulgaria, we will continue our commitment to a united union. welcome to the european union for romanians! (applause from the audience)
president of romania. dear mr president,honourable members of the european parliament,your excellences,ladies and gentlemen,it is an honour for me to be the first president of romania to address this distinguished parliamentary forum and, through you, all european citizens, since our accession to the european union. the privilege is all the greater as the outstanding work of the parliament in the service of european construction is known. by its position as a firm and committed promoter of the enlargement process, the parliamentary forum has sent romania a message of support and partnership from the outset. many members of parliament have become our closest friends over the years, and i thank them for that. i would also like to convey my congratulations to mr hans-gert pöttering on his election as president of the european parliament and to wish him every success in his future work. i also congratulate all of you who have been appointed to the european parliament's leadership structure and wish you every success in your task. at the same time, i thank and congratulate mr josep borrell on his impressive work as president of the european parliament. mr borrell's term of office coincided with important moments in our european journey, and for this we are grateful to him. i also wish the romanian meps who are at the beginning of the road success. their duty as representatives of the european citizens is both honourable and difficult. i have full confidence in the ability of the romanian parliamentarians to respond properly to the expectations of european citizens, which now include the citizens of romania. ladies and gentlemen, ever since they were able to express themselves freely after december 1989, romanians have been unequivocally in favour of returning to the european family. the main message of our accession was: 'we are back in europe!' romanians saw the european union as a model of cooperation that had succeeded in facilitating the fulfillment of the potential of every european citizen. romania's accession to the european union coincides with the approach of a landmark anniversary for community building. it is about marking, on 25 march, half a century of solidarity action around common ideals: peace, freedom, tolerance, pluralism, respect for the law, unity in diversity, economic prosperity, social cohesion. all these values define the european union and have given it the permanent strength to go further. in a globalised world, the union must be stronger, more efficient, and the resources it needs to do so must come from solidarity, from the political, economic and social strength of our member states. with each new state, the union becomes stronger, more dynamic, richer. from this perspective, a union of 27 member states can only be a win for both the newcomers and the union as a whole. distinguished members of the european parliament,even though we have become a member state of the european union, we understand from our own experience of the internal preparation process that accession is not synonymous with integration itself. i might even say that the real challenge is now beginning. a new perspective has been opened to us, it is up to us to capitalize on it and turn it into a success for both romania and the european project. i assure you that after 1 january 2007 we have not fallen into the trap of relaxation and we are aware that the real process of our integration is only just beginning. it's a long-term effort, which must be done at home, not only by the state institutions, but also by each romanian. our integration must come, first of all, from the capacity to generate economic growth, from effective institutions, a credible, independent judiciary capable of delivering justice to the people, non-corrupt officials, infrastructure of european standards, a clean environment. in short, a standard of living for romanian citizens compatible with that of european citizens. equally, romania's integration must also come from our capacity to be in solidarity with the general interest of the union. the integration of romania also means our ability to harmonize the national interest with the general interest of the union, but also our ability to make a real contribution to the competitiveness, security and internal cohesion of the european union. if we go back to the beginning, the early 1990s, the results are important. in today's romania, judges are independent, and ministers are accountable for their actions in office. the situation of institutionalized or disabled children has improved considerably. a major effort has been made to integrate the roma, a problem that is still not resolved to satisfactory parameters. romania has today the toughest laws for declarations of wealth and interests for public officials; romania has eliminated the practice of rescheduling corporate debts, introduced transparency in the allocation of public funds and strengthened criminal sanctions for tax evasion. however, romania still has a long way to go to catch up with the advanced member states, even compared to the current european average. the average income per economy is only 328 euros. the transportation infrastructure is way behind. rural development and the elimination of subsistence farming remain a major challenge. the percentage of the population employed in agriculture is still very high. the middle class is not strong enough to become a powerful engine of society. and the list doesn't end there. your natural question might be: what guarantees are there that romania will continue the reforms started and that it will eliminate these shortcomings? the guarantee is the support of the romanian people and the political will of the leaders. remember that no other political objective, other than joining the european union, has succeeded in uniting the entire romanian society around it with the same force and in coalition the entire political spectrum, rising above any party interests or individual interests. i'm counting on the same mobilization for the integration process itself. i personally, within the limits of my constitutional powers, assure you that this objective will be achieved. we have this political and moral duty first of all to the citizens of romania. we will continue this effort with the romanians and for the romanians. we will find more time and more patience to debate at home the direct implications of this effort on the daily lives of our citizens. we will make them more familiar with european institutions and themes. we'll talk about the benefits, but at the same time, we'll have to explain things that seem hard to explain. for example, why romanians cannot access the labour market in some member states, even though most of them are honest workers. and as i speak from the highest tribune of european democracy, i would like to confess to you a personal concern on this subject: the union has succeeded, formally and institutionally, in overcoming the old east-west divisions. it's a historic achievement, an achievement of this century. however, a lack of awareness and hesitation among citizens in some member states to accept eastern europeans as full partners and members of the same family persists. i do not want to generalize, but the phenomenon exists and has effects on the union as a whole. we, the politicians, directly elected by the citizens, have a duty to promote together ways of improving mutual knowledge between our citizens. the result will enhance the union's internal cohesion, diminish ultra-nationalist or extremist tendencies and strengthen our union of 27 member states. let us learn from the experience of politicians in those member states who have paid a heavy political price for not giving due weight to communication with their citizens and for leaving room for doubt and misunderstanding about some european developments. and here we need your support. we need your will to understand that our eastern european nations have reasons for pride, have exceptional people, often have a rich european history, have advantages that they offer to the union as a whole. ladies and gentlemen,we are convinced that ensuring the internal cohesion of the european union is an essential prerequisite, including for equipping the union with the capacity to play an external role commensurate with its potential. this will enable us to respond to today's broader security challenges, whether it is energy security, illegal migration, or hotbeds of conflict and instability in neighbouring areas. romania will contribute to the european union's increasingly strong assertion as a global actor. especially where it can add real value. and here, i am thinking of relations with the western balkans and the eastern neighbourhood of the european union. in the western balkans, 2007 will be the 'year of truth' in a way. it is the year in which the international community will have to demonstrate that it can propose a viable solution for the province of kosovo. you are of course aware of the reservations we have about imposing a solution from outside. i believe that the sensitive problems of the balkans - kosovo, the prospects for bosnia and herzegovina, the republic of montenegro, the commitment of serbia to the european orbit, but also the fight against crime and extremist groups - will be solved only by a unified approach at regional level. the difficulties in the western balkans area require an integrated solution, including the provision of a clear european perspective. the european perspective offered to the republic of moldova should be similar to that for the western balkans. romania intends to explain, support and find support within the european union for the republic of moldova to return to europe, where it left in 1940 without its will. both the people of romania and the people of the republic of moldova have the same history, speak the same language, have the same culture, the same traditions and the same european aspirations. certainly, it is a moral and political obligation of romania and romanians to fight for our families from east of the prut to return home to europe. another area that is increasingly focusing our attention is the black sea basin, considering that this is not only an area of great prospects but also one of multiple risks and challenges. i think we are all convinced that the vast black sea area offers many of the possible answers to the big questions of european and global energy security. we want to equip the region with tools and mechanisms to control illicit trafficking of any kind, to combat terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. we want 2007 to bring real progress in resolving the various frozen conflicts in the region and we are open to dialogue with any partner that can contribute to this. we will support the involvement of the european union in the processes of resolving frozen conflicts, including under the umbrella of the european security and defence policy. we hope that together with the neighbouring states, we can transform this region into a model of peaceful coexistence. romania aims to continue to be an active contributor to strengthening international security. we will remain engaged in projects promoted by the union under the european security and defence policy. at the same time, we are in favour of a strong transatlantic partnership and of strengthening cooperation between nato and the european union. we can only conceive of europe and north america as strong entities with common goals and values. as i have said, we have understood that full integration into the european union is not only beneficial for us, but also entails responsibilities and solidarity. and since i am often asked what is the added value that romania brings to the european union, let me address a few aspects: the european union is a key player in the european union's economic growth and global competitiveness, offering the second largest market among the new member states after poland and important investment opportunities. romania entered its seventh consecutive year of economic growth, with a rate of 8.4% for 2006, well above the union's average. this gives us confidence that we are on the right track, even if some reforms still need to be continued and strengthened. foreign direct investment in romania in 2006 amounted to €8.5 billion, and in the 17 years of reforms the dramatic transformations that have taken place have allowed romanians who embraced change to approach the standards for joining the european union. another argument is that romanians are a christian people, of latin origin, with a strong european culture, a people who have preserved their traditions and customs. we are a country with important connections both in south-eastern europe and east of the external border of the union. the black sea is directly adjacent to the european union. it is a geostrategic gain, but also an additional guarantee that romania gives to secure the european space. since joining nato, romania has become a security provider rather than a security consumer. we come with an important political and social tradition of tolerance and diversity, of protection of national minorities, of respect and participation of them in the political, social and cultural life of the country. this experience has prepared us for the culture of dialogue and partnership that is so much a part of solidarity in the union of 27. last but not least, romania brings a fresh, invigorating breath of support for the political objectives of the european agenda at a time when the mood is relatively skeptical. today, 67% of romanians say they have confidence in the european union. in addition, by the fact that the accession process was longer and perhaps more difficult, we are a clear example that it can be achieved despite any difficulties. that any nation interested in promoting reform will succeed if it persists and is consistent with its ideals. romania's culture is european by definition, nature and essence, and european values have always been found in the culture of romanians. in recognition of this, the city of sibiu, together with the greater luxembourg region, is now the european capital of culture for 2007. it is my pleasure to invite you to visit sibiu and we look forward to celebrating together this year the talent, imagination, our diversity and the ability of romanians to live together with minorities. ladies and gentlemen,we have set ourselves the task of shaping romania's profile as a member of the european union in 2007, a responsible and effective member, fully linked to the major debating topics of the european agenda. with this in mind, let me share with you just a few thoughts on our vision of the european construction of which we are now a part. at european level, we will join the effort to strengthen political union with strong and effective institutions capable of further promoting the process of european integration. in our view, in such an institutional set-up, the european commission guarantees the defence of the common interest and ensures that the rules agreed together are respected. the european parliament acts as the main promoter of the interests of the citizen at european level and as a catalyst for the establishment of a european identity. we also want a union with democratic mechanisms that are sensitive to developments at home and abroad and that provide the answers that european citizens expect. i am thinking of: ensuring the area of freedom and security, energy security, combating illegal immigration. an important role in reducing the european union's image deficit in the eyes of its own citizens is played by national parliaments, at least that is how we see the role of the parliament of romania. their contribution could focus on strengthening the communication and explanation dimension of european union initiatives and activities. it is natural that citizens should be involved, through systematic information, focused primarily on addressing their concerns. in this perspective, national parliaments can be an important actor in bringing our citizens as closely as possible into the solution of the challenges facing europe, and cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments is a necessity, as these institutions together provide the core of the legitimacy and representativeness of the european union. dear members of the european parliament,as our accession coincided with the start of the german presidency, let me conclude by mentioning just three of the priorities announced: the constitutional treaty, the security of energy routes and the neighbourhood policy. as regards the constitutional treaty, i would like to assure the german presidency that it will have in romania a supporter of its efforts to reinvigorate the treaty and to advance a consensual solution. (applause) we need a strong treaty, capable of strengthening the legitimacy of political action at community level. we believe that unlocking the constitutional crisis is essential to give europe the capacity to decide and act after the end of an unprecedented wave of enlargement. the advancement of europe requires improving the democratic legitimacy, efficiency and institutional transparency of the union. only in this way can we meet the aspirations of our citizens. i was among the first to advocate that the energy sector should be given greater attention, which means, in addition to relations with producing countries, diversification, liberalization, cooperation between political and economic actors, and investment in research and development. we continue to see the european solution as a common eu energy policy to support energy efficiency, diversification of resources and transport routes and liberalisation of the sector along the supply chain. we know that such a project will not be easy to implement. but difficulty does not make it less necessary. as you know, from our point of view, there is a key region in the energy policy of the european union: the black sea. i think we are all convinced that the vast black sea area offers many of the possible answers to the big questions of european and global energy security. in the european neighbourhood policy we already have an important vehicle for the dissemination of values and standards in the eastern areas, so we must act to give it more consistency. we welcome and support the intention of the current presidency to embark on this path. ladies and gentlemen, romania's accession to the european union marks not only a new beginning, but a new historical stage, defined by overcoming the countries of the past and looking to the future. romania is aware that from now on its practical actions and strategic objectives will benefit from a stronger and more nuanced toolbox. we are determined to use this extensive toolkit with full responsibility. we will remain faithful to our fundamental principles and values, we will take on our new role as a member state of the european union with clarity and we will try to promote the national interest in the best spirit of community solidarity. thank you, sir. (applause) thank you very much.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank mr băsescu on behalf of all of you. he began his speech by saying something very nice: we can speak freely in romania again. and freedom of speech is the foundation of freedom of action. you have committed to reforms in romania that is a good basis for a good future for this country! they have pledged themselves to reforms in the european union and to solidarity in the european union, which is the best condition for our common progress, the unity of europeans! i wish your country romania - a country with a great history - a good future and i wish you all the best. let us work together towards a strong, democratic and transparent european union! i would like to thank you very much, mr president băsescu. (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into detail. freedom of speech is not a given. i am sure that you have heard of the terrible murder of the turkish journalist of armenian origin, hrant dink, on the afternoon of 19 january. the latter has in recent years repeatedly drawn attention to itself with demands for the historical-political processing of the armenian-ottoman past. he has been attacked by nationalists on many occasions and has been charged by the turkish judiciary on several occasions for his statements. i would like to express on behalf of the european parliament our horror at this crime. we welcome and acknowledge that the turkish government as a whole has done the same and that its determination has already led to the arrest of the confessed perpetrator. the motives of the 17-year-old suspected murderer are clearly marked by nationalistic convictions and a complete disregard for the opinions of others. according to media reports, several thousand people attended the funeral of hrant dink, including, on my behalf, mr joost lagendijk, as chairman of the delegation to the eu-turkey joint parliamentary committee, and the chair of our subcommittee on human rights, ms hélène flautre. the overwhelming support of the turkish public and media gives hope that this sad event will prompt the turkish government to initiate further reforms in the criminal law to protect freedom of expression. i would ask you to rise from your seats, as we did when the great russian journalist anna politkovskaya was murdered, to commemorate hrant dink in silence. (parliament adopted the resolution)
member of the commission. madam president, i congratulate you, first of all, on your election to the office of vice-president and i am confident that you will fully meet the demands and expectations of the distinguished colleagues who supported you with their votes. mr president, never before has climate change been so prominent on the political agenda. the message from science is clear: climate change is happening. citizens expect european union leadership on this issue. the standard review and the commission's communication on post-2012 make the economic case for action. the risks of climate change far outweigh the costs of doing something about it. following several natural events, notably the warm winter we are experiencing this year, there is a lively public debate about the threat of climate change. the european union must use this political momentum to act. now is the time for decisions on how to put europe and the world on the path to a more energy-secure, low-carbon future. the urgency and scale of the climate change challenge requires europe to further reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and convince its partners around the globe to do the same. the european union has the objective of limiting global warming to two degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels. the climate change and energy package that the commission put on the table on 10 january provides a blueprint for a european union strategy to meet this objective. it outlines the basic elements of a global climate agreement post-2012 and gives a clear signal on the necessary level of ambition. this will encourage the start of negotiation on a post-2012 deal. the strength of this fully integrated package is that it demonstrates that further reducing the european union's greenhouse gas emissions goes hand in hand with strengthening our competitiveness and the security of our energy supply. the credibility of the package is further underlined by the combination of concrete policy proposals to be adopted in 2007 or later. we had the approval of our targets, which are very important. i can just remind you that about a year ago, we didn't even talk about targets. we did not even think about unilateral commitments. about 15 months ago, the european council had used the language "explore" when giving the commission the mandate: the mandate was to explore reduction pathways of 15 to 30% with other developed countries. now we have a target to negotiate and we are asking the european council to give us the mandate to negotiate a 30% target with other developed countries. on top of that we have a unilateral commitment, irrespective of the agreement and until such an agreement is reached, to reduce by 20%, which will enable us to achieve the other targets which we have set in terms of energy efficiency, carbon dioxide emissions and energy security. other specific measures are also needed in order to achieve these targets. as regards the decisions we are taking on the national allocation plans, i would point out that if we had accepted the proposed national allocation plans, the emissions trading system - which is the most important instrument to combat climate change - would have collapsed by now. we also have reductions from specific sectors: aviation has been included in the european union emissions trading scheme and will contribute its fair share in reducing emissions; cars should also make a fair contribution towards reducing the emissions which are increasing; the transport sector, as you know, is increasing carbon dioxide emissions in the european union tremendously, so it has to make reductions too. the automobile industry should make the vehicle technology improvements which are needed in order to deliver on what the european council told me to go for last june: 120g per kilometer by 2012. (applause from the left) today i am very glad to announce to you that we have adopted the fuel quality directive. this is the way to upgrade fuel requirements so they will be cleaner, emit less carbon dioxide and be better for the environment, better for health, better for fighting climate change. by 2020 we are going to save 500 million tons of carbon dioxide. so, today's decision was very important and is independent of the car proposal, which we have for next week, as the president announced today. there is a series of other measures which are needed, otherwise it is just a lot of talk. if we make declarations that we are going to cut reductions by 2020 or by 2050, and then come to the particular measures which are needed in order to achieve this, and everyone says, "we are not responsible; we are a special case; the others should make the reductions", we shall never achieve these targets. we need to be determined to fight climate change. in order to do this it is not just the commission, it is not just the council - and i would like to thank you very much for all the support you have given us so far - it is also the national authorities, not just the ministers, the governments, but all the authorities who are responsible for dealing with climate change cases. the commission proposes that developed countries including the european union on average take on a 30% emission reduction target by 2020 compared to 1990 levels. in addition, the commission has put forward a number of options for engaging developing countries with the aim of limiting the growth of their emissions and eventually reducing their emissions after 2020. the new targets for developed countries and tools to engage developing countries should form part of a new agreement to follow up from the kyoto protocol's first commitment period in 2013. obtaining such a new agreement will not be easy and will require firm european union leadership. the commission has proposed that the european union demonstrate this leadership through a clear, independent commitment to achieve at least a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared to 1990 levels, as i said previously. this independent commitment will help us break the deadlock in international climate negotiations. it underpins our strong determination to obtain an international agreement that will enable a 30% reduction to be made by developed countries and provide a strong message to our partners. it is feasible, it is affordable and it is profitable to take ambitious action. now is the time to move from words to action. independent unilateral commitment is also essential to meet out competitiveness and energy efficiency and energy security objectives. it ensures continuity of the carbon market and provides incentives to make investments in low-carbon technology for beyond 2012. under european union leadership, discussions in the united nations framework are now increasingly shifting to issues of importance for an agreement on action post-2012. the nairobi climate conference in november, while not making major headline-grabbing decisions, was in fact a step forward in terms of preparing the ground for a future agreement. for example, nairobi saw agreement among parties to the kyoto protocol on a comprehensive work plan to be completed by 2008 or 2009 on further commitments of industrialised countries after 2012. there was a long shot for agreement on conducting a comprehensive review of the kyoto protocol in 2008 and a series of important decisions on clean development mechanisms and adaptation. these will support developing countries in adapting to climate change and encourage more clean technology projects in africa and other poorer regions. still, there is a large gap between talk and commitment to action. if we want an agreement within the next two to three years, the international community needs to show much more political will. negotiations and commitments for developed countries and other contributions from developing countries need a kick start. this is precisely what the proposed 30% target and the 20% independent commitment is intended to do. i expect the spring council to send a strong signal on the need for determined action on climate change and the crucial link between energy policy and climate change climate policy. i also expect the european council to support the targets that i have just outlined to you. i hope that a similar message of support for the approach proposed by the commission will be given by the european parliament. we need this support to strengthen the political momentum behind efforts to meet the two-degree target, and we need the european union to practice what it preaches in order to persuade other countries to do so too among them the united states, which is the number one emitter in the world and which provides the argument behind which fast developing countries like china, india and other emerging economies in southeast asia and south america can hide and say, if the united states, which is the number one emitter, is not moving, then why should we move? so in this way we shall show that we practice what we preach and we shall persuade them to follow in a global agreement, because climate change is a global threat and needs a global response. (applause from the left)
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank you for giving the new presidency the opportunity to make a few comments on the subject of climate change. i should like to begin by saying that in the council, in preparation for the last climate conference, we have developed common positions between the commission, parliament and the council on the main issues, strategies and responses to the global challenge of climate change. i believe that the only way we can achieve success in the difficult negotiations of the coming years is if the european union continues to speak with one voice and to maintain its leadership in the international climate change negotiations. the european union's acceptance of this leadership role has been one of the successes of recent years. commissioner dimas has rightly pointed out that the european union, in addition to the general formulation of important climate change objectives, is faced with the question of how far it is prepared to translate these objectives into concrete initiatives and political practice in the european union and the member states. we are facing two really big challenges for humanity. the first great challenge facing humanity is the question: how do we provide the world - a growing world population - with enough energy? we have 6.5 billion people on our planet today, and someday there will be more than 9 billion people. today, 1.4 billion people live in industrialized regions, and in a few years and decades, there will be 4 billion people living in industrialized nations on this planet. if we want to consume energy and resources in the next 50 years in the same way as we have done in the last 50 years, then we would need two planets to provide people with enough energy and resources. the first question we must answer, therefore, if we are to make progress in the international climate negotiations, is how to secure energy supplies not only for ourselves but also for developing and emerging countries, which are seeking economic growth to improve the living conditions of their people. if the europeans and other industrialized nations cannot provide these countries with technological answers to the question of how to achieve economic growth, social security and prosperity for their people without destroying the climate at the same time, then these countries will not follow us on the path to climate protection! so the first challenge is to answer the question, for example, that is always put to us first by the developing countries in the international climate negotiations, which is: how do we provide for the two billion or so people who today have no access to the electricity grid, who live in abject poverty, and who need energy to improve their living conditions? how do we provide energy for this part of the world's population -- for two billion people -- without destroying the climate? the challenge for technology regions like europe is: what are the technologies of the future that will enable economic growth and decouple it from climate change and ever-increasing co2 emissions? high-tech regions like europe must provide that answer. the second, related challenge for humanity is to limit climate change, global warming. we're going to get the latest data from the intergovernmental panel on climate change this week. in paris, scientists are currently working on the data. we will learn - so much is already known - that all the threatening scenarios for global warming will be confirmed or worsened rather than improved. this means that we will not be able to keep global warming below 2 degrees unless we can make a greater contribution to reducing co2 and other greenhouse gases than we have done so far. we are already seeing the consequences of this. in my home country, germany, the last glacier will be lost in 2020. we have put into service a new sea rescue cruiser a few months ago to rescue shipwrecked people in the north sea. it's almost 50 meters long. ten or twenty years ago, 20 to 30 meters was enough. these are the first signs of climate change in a country that is relatively unaffected by it. we know that germany will experience more floods, but also more droughts. but we are a relatively rich and safe country. it is even more difficult when we talk to our colleagues from spain and portugal. the countries concerned fear the emergence of real deserts, a drought that goes beyond periodic droughts. and it gets even more dramatic when we look at africa, with the global warming that's already happening. there are already more climate refugees on the african continent today than there are from war and civil strife. what we are seeing in the refugee movements off the coast of north africa, off europe, is a gentle breeze of what is threatening us if we fail to stop global warming and the destruction of the living conditions on a continent like africa. this is also a matter of justice. it is a blatant injustice that the continent of africa, which bears no responsibility for the current climate change, is the one that suffers most from the consequences of climate change. this is a development we are already seeing today. imagine, we're getting to a world population of four billion people living in industrial societies -- two-thirds of them in asia, by the way -- and global warming is starting to affect the himalayan glaciers. 40% of asia's freshwater reserves come from the himalayan glaciers. imagine the threat scenarios that exist in the world if these freshwater resources in asia are depleted. we will not only have the threat of war over oil, but in doubt also war and civil war over water reservoirs. so we are talking about a real danger to humanity! but first we must succeed in taking these debates about the challenges facing humanity out of the circle of experts and into the circle of leaders of humanity. in future it will not be enough to bring together 189 united nations environment ministers and 5 000 scientists once a year in an international climate conference, but we will have to bring these issues to the attention of the heads of state and government, the united nations general assembly and the security council. i am also a member of the german bundestag, a parliament. we must also succeed in placing these issues at the centre of parliamentary discussions. to put it bluntly, the number of members present at debates on climate change is lower in the german bundestag than in the european parliament. we should also make sure that what we say in public all the time and what we read every day, that this is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, also leads us to put it at the center of our political actions and our daily work. i am convinced that the commission has not only recognised this task with its proposals on energy and climate change, but that it is also given a historic opportunity. for the first time in the debate on energy and climate change, the commission has put forward a proposal which presents a historic opportunity. it brings together the issues of energy security and climate protection. we no longer have separate debates on how to ensure access to energy and how to safeguard the climate, but we have a package of proposals and policy instruments on the table that brings the two together. for the first time, we have the chance to decide energy policy and climate change issues together in a coherent approach at european level. i know that there will be a lot of discussion in the coming weeks and months in the committees, working groups and negotiations of officials. you know all this much better than i do, because you have more experience of european decisionmaking than i do. my friend martin schulz - it is enough to come here to have the chance to speak in front of him, normally the roles are reversed between us - knows that there is always a danger - at least he told me this in the previous interview - that the political dynamic, i would say the historic opportunity, is in danger of being lost in the context of such detailed consultations. i believe that the key point in the coming weeks and months is not to miss this historic opportunity to bring together energy and climate policy in europe and to make it a leading policy in the international debate, in addition to all the necessary detailed discussions. i believe that this is the real task of politicians in the commission, in parliament and in the european council. of course, we will also be dealing with national conflicts of interest in a number of details. we are seeing this in the automobile industry. but the key is to seize this historic opportunity, and i will give a few examples from the council's point of view to illustrate what will be particularly important at the spring summit of heads of state or government. firstly, we need ambitious climate targets for the international negotiations. it is absolutely right that the commission should set itself the objective of achieving a 30% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 in the international negotiations. it's not measured by what we trust each other to do or what's economically feasible, but it's measured by the question: what reductions do we need to achieve by 2020 to keep global warming below 2 degrees? i think this is something that we need to bring more into the political debate, because often in the climate debate, you have a big problem. back in the 70s and 80s, when we had problems with waste and landfills in my country, we saw toxic substances coming out of the landfill. you could smell it and you could see it every day. that's why the politicians have come together in everyday life and said: we have to clean up the landfills and we can't accumulate so much waste. the atmosphere is a landfill that no one sees, that you don't smell every day, and thank god there are no disasters every day! the danger that this invisible dump is not calling us to action every day is relatively great, and if you tell your population, your voters, that we want to limit the temperature increase on our planet to 2 degrees, then many people will look at you with disbelief and say, "but 2 degrees, that's not very much and in doubt quite pleasant, if it's not quite so cold in northern europe". so it's hard to convey that there's a two or three degree difference between our temperatures today and the ice age several thousand years ago. and if you say to them, "we have to do this by 2100, because there are many people on earth and in our parliaments and parties", they will say, "well, that's a long perspective, that's what our successors should take care of". what it's about is making it clear that climate change is already happening today, and that it's about our children and grandchildren at its core. all those who are active in politics today and are my age will be able to live safely until the end of their lives on this earth. but my 18-year-old daughter will pay the price if we don't use the next 10 to 15 years to make a real difference in global warming or stop global warming. climate change has a long way to go. it takes 30 years. what we do right today will be reaped in 30 years, but what we do wrong today will be reaped in 30 years by our children and grandchildren. that's why it's important that we firmly anchor the 2 degree target at the spring summit of heads of state and government, and that leads to the international climate change target of minus 30 percent by 2020. the commission has said that if there is no multilateral agreement or a follow-up agreement to kyoto with the united states, china and india, then the european union's unilateral target should be at least 20%. there are politicians who have considered this a step backwards in climate protection. my terms are about something else entirely. the message is that even in the unlikely event that we fail to reach an international agreement on climate change beyond the european union, even then no one in the european union should believe that climate change will end, but even in this case of the failure of international climate change negotiations, which we did not expect and did not want, the point is to anchor more climate change in the european union and not to stop at 8%, but to reach at least 20%. we want to include air transport and we need, of course, the implementation of the declaration of commitment by the european automobile industry. if a voluntary commitment to 120 grams of co2 per km on average for the european car industry is not met, then the political debate will not be about whether or not we need legislation at european level, but according to everything i have heard in the last few days, we are in agreement, that is the commission and my government, but also the overwhelming majority of the council and parliament: we need european legislation to ensure that the european automobile industry makes this contribution to climate protection. this contribution is to be 120 grams per km. the question we will have to discuss is whether we can achieve this by vehicle technology alone or whether we want to include, for example, a proportionate increase in biofuels for this purpose. i think that this is a debate that we can have with confidence in parliament, in the commission and in the council, but we should leave no doubt that in the end this 120-gram target is for the whole european automotive industry. secondly, we will have to make sure that everyone is moving towards this goal, the big vehicles as well as the medium and small vehicles. we also need a significant increase in renewable energy. i also strongly urge on behalf of the council that we stick to the common objective of 20% of renewable energy in the primary energy needs of the european union and prove that we can achieve technological leadership in this way. these ambitious climate targets also offer enormous growth prospects for the european union, for employment and for training. the question is: what will europe be when china becomes the world's factory, india the service provider, russia the pump and brazil the farmer? what then of europe? i believe that europe is the engineers and technicians of the world who are taking up the technological challenges and offering solutions to how we can tackle both the energy issue and climate change. these technological answers are awaited by many in international climate change negotiations as well as in international energy policy. europe is the region of innovation and has all the conditions to provide these answers. i believe that what the commission has put forward in the areas of efficiency, climate objectives and energy action plan provides all the conditions for us to take up this challenge. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. access to energy and climate protection are the two challenges facing humanity in the 21st century. i am not saying that, the president of the european council, angela merkel, said that in our parliament two weeks ago, and it is therefore only logical that the commission and the council presidency should put the fight against climate change at the centre of their work. but just as important is that words be followed by deeds. the stern report has made it clear that the economic damage of unchecked climate change is comparable in economic terms only to the damage of world war ii. in my constituency we have a very concrete example that people are talking about. we've seen the storm kyrill and thousands of people have been badly damaged. my constituency was at the center of this storm. while not every single storm can be attributed to climate change, researchers say with great confidence that the accumulation of extreme weather events is becoming more noticeable. that is why we must pursue the target of reducing emissions by 30% by 2020. we should do everything we can. i think - as many of my colleagues do - that the debate on the 20% was at least confusing. it was given the impression that the 20% was not taken seriously. but we should take it seriously. and we also have the opportunity to take all of this internationally, because in the united states, for example, we have a whole new quality of debate after katrina. the opportunity to do something together with the united states is much greater than in the past, after the developments of the last few months. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is good that the european parliament is preparing a response to the commission's statement, but it is also good that we are not voting on it tomorrow. we have a resolution from the environment committee which makes a lot of sense. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think, for example, that the resolution by the committee on the environment treats nuclear energy very badly and very unfairly. this is not appropriate and we have to improve a few things. but we also need to send a clear signal for more climate action. this is what 98% of people expect from european politics, according to a survey, and we should not disappoint these people!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. not all of you have heard the council presidency's impressive speech on climate change. but you, like me, have heard many such speeches, and because my former colleague in the national assembly, sigmar gabriel, is a friend of the clear word, let me just say this: if words could stop climate change, we probably wouldn't have a problem! but, mr commissioner, we should not be measuring this situation by words, but by deeds! what the commission has put forward in connection with the energy package is not only problematic because of the 20% target and the juggling with 20% first at unilateral level and then perhaps later 30% at international level. it is also problematic because the instruments which are to be incorporated in this energy package are all too weak. i doubt that these instruments are even capable of achieving a 20% co2 reduction. there's a lot wrong with this package, and not much right, sigmar gabriel! for example, there is too little energy efficiency and saving in this package, there is too little renewable energy in it. there is far too much coal and fossil fuels in it, and it is being worked with a nuclear optimism which is simply not tenable at all, especially when you look at this economic disaster that areva is now entering in finland. the news from finland should make any opponent of nuclear power happy that the nuclear industry is ruining itself by such false investments. i think that in the last few days something has been added to this 'right' or 'wrong' which crowns the wrong instruments. the german presidency is responsible for this. the correct attempt by environment commissioner dimas to establish binding co2 reduction targets for the automobile industry, at the level voluntarily announced by the industry, this correct approach is being torpedoed by germany, and not with the consciousness, this is about climate protection, not with the consciousness of how we make the automobile industry sustainable, but only in terms of how we protect the small segment of the large luxury cars produced in germany. so all of a sudden it's not about climate change anymore, it's all about porsche! (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not know which rule i can refer to. you'll find someone who will. i would ask you, as the newly elected president of this house, the reform committee, which is to deal with the reform of the work of this parliament, to ask the following: we need a procedure which guarantees a higher degree of fairness to speakers than is currently the case. if there is no break between the debate and the voting, then the last speakers on the list of speakers are in the same situation as my colleague francis wurtz was. it is absolutely impossible to speak against a chamber where hundreds of members are flocking in, all of whom have something important to discuss, but no one is listening. this is simply unacceptable. i ask you to ensure that there is a gap between the end of the debate and the vote. we must avoid situations which are unworthy of the president of a parliamentary group, who has to fight for the floor because his colleagues are not listening. this is simply not acceptable! (applause from the centre)
mr schulz, you are right. i do not know which rule you are referring to, but where you are right, you are right, and there will certainly be an article to that effect. i am in full agreement with you on this point: we need a short break between the speeches and the votes. i am not going to go into detail. it has now been called for us to begin voting at the scheduled time, which is 5.30 p.m. but if more members come forward now, we will be increasingly moving away from the voting time, so i ask you to vote now, it will be very quick. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen! a colleague has just said that we should not discuss political problems such as climate protection for too long if there is no solution to them. the reverse is also true: in politics, we must be careful not to make problems the central problem of the day, and to make them the problem of the end of the world, and then not to offer a solution that really means positive change. i am also concerned that some of the debate these days is not being conducted in a factual manner when it comes to storms that have their roots in climate change. anyone who reads smart weather reports knows that's not true. certain questions are simply not asked or answered, such as: why, despite the global increase in co2 over the past 120 years, has there been only a 0.3 degree increase in temperature in most locations? why was it that the greatest increase in the number of major storms occurred between 1930 and 1960, and the last four decades have seen a smaller increase? why is it that we have no explanation for the fact that even if all the industrialized nations reduced their greenhouse gas emissions by 30%, we would only achieve a six-year delay in warming by 2100. i do not question the urgency of this problem, i only wonder whether we are doing enough, whether we are not sometimes acting hastily and asking the right questions. we are discussing climate change, security of supply and competitiveness. but we don't weigh the dots against each other, we place them side by side, depending on what the alternatives are. why is there no serious consideration of the alternative of obtaining 70% of co2-free electricity from nuclear energy? if the issue of climate change is so important, then all options must be weighed against each other without any ideology or ruthlessness. this includes the question of nuclear energy in the future. if you are going to have this debate, you have to have it on a broad basis, you have to have it openly and you have to take the time to have it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the issue of climate change will certainly be with us for a long time, and the gap between action and effect, that is, the actual reversal of climate change, is very large. it is therefore all the more important that we prepare europe, its policies and legislation for this fact and that we take concrete measures. this includes in addition to the continuation of the kyoto protocol beyond 2012 of course also strategies to reduce co2 emissions in individual sectors, such as passenger cars. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the opportunities must also be discussed. the reduction in co2 emissions from passenger cars and the associated fuel savings will have a positive effect on energy security, considering that road transport alone accounts for 26.5% of the total energy consumption in the european union. the specific measures mentioned above do not require reinventing the wheel: other countries, such as japan, have also launched co2-reduction programmes for cars. here, the vehicles in a toprunner programme are divided into nine different weight classes and binding reduction targets are set. in climate policy, the saying 'time is money' is taking on new meaning, as the recent report by mr stern has shown.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i must say that i am surprised that in your remarks regarding the pnr negotiations you did not lose a word about the ats. i personally wonder how it is that a system such as the automatic targeting system (ats), originally designed and used for cargo, could be used for years on end, including pnr data, on passengers without them knowing it. while we are negotiating agreements with the united states to guarantee the protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens, at the same time such a system is operating in complete secrecy! the us side now assures that the ats is compatible with the current and also the previous pnr agreement. however, i want to make it very clear that insurance of this kind is not enough for me. i do not see how the retention of data in the ats for 40 years is compatible with the pnr agreement. in addition, the ats appears to be able to be used for any purpose. how can this be in line with the obligations of the pnr convention, which states that the use of pnr data is only permitted for the purpose of combating terrorism and other serious crimes? we have not yet received any convincing answers to all these questions, nor to the question of why the ats was kept secret in the first place. how could the us withhold such vital information from its contractor during the negotiations on the pnr agreement? a legitimate question might therefore be how to ensure that there are no other ats-like systems that we simply do not know about. with regard to the new pnr agreement, i would like to expressly support what mr cavada said: it must be a matter of significantly reducing the number of passenger data to be transmitted. it is necessary to ensure that there is no unrestricted data sharing by us customs and border protection with any authority involved in the fight against terrorism. the european union must also insist that our european citizens enjoy the same legal protection as citizens in the united states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the eu attaches great importance to data protection. so it was a shock to learn from the american media that swift, despite the data protection laws in all european member states, was willing to give in to us pressure and hand over european citizens' data to washington. this was done without the knowledge, let alone the consent, of the european parliament, the national parliaments or the parties concerned! to date, we have not seen the memorandum of understanding between swift and the us which underlies the data sharing. we can only hope that the data has actually been used for counter-terrorism purposes and not for economic espionage! we have no confirmation of this to date. we all understand the need for a determined fight against terrorism, which we support. the fundamental rights of individuals must be respected. the fight against terrorism must not be conducted at the expense of basic civil and data protection rights! this is also a particular concern of our liberal group. that is why we have requested a hearing on this matter. we were not surprised that the american side, which was also invited, did not attend the hearing without giving any reason. we welcome the prompt and thorough investigation by the belgian side, which has clearly concluded that this was an infringement of the law, or as commissioner frattini put it, a criminal offence. by the way, the people in charge at swift either knew this from the beginning or at least suspected and feared it, as they indirectly told us. the failure of corporate governance at swift is still incomprehensible to me! the regulators were informed but did nothing to inform the public or to refer the matter to the governments. this is not the way to treat senior citizens! the citizens' trust in the eu's legal community has been severely damaged, the swift incident is increasing the euroscepticism in the population, and it will be difficult to regain the lost trust. i ask the council and the commission to complete the careful examination of which mr gloser spoke as soon as possible and to come forward with concrete proposals on how the legitimate rights of european citizens can be enforced also vis-à-vis the united states. the european union is a community of values and must be defended with courage even against major partners, precisely because they are friends and not enemies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a thorough evaluation before we can reach an agreement. the central issue is the effectiveness of the present agreement, but also of the previous one. that question must be answered before we can proceed here. any future agreement must be based on the push system. pull is no longer acceptable, as the push system was known to have been introduced in the previous agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. the future agreement must also be given full democratic legitimacy with the participation of the european parliament and, where appropriate, the national parliaments. we also need an annual evaluation, it must be part of every agreement, and these evaluation reports must be publicly available. it is clear that the protection of personal data rules within the third pillar is urgently needed, as are global standards covering all categories of personal data.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i remember very well the statements made by chancellor merkel in strasbourg, in which she rightly spoke of european values and also of the need to educate and make clear to people what europe is good for. mr gloser, this is one of those cases where we should explain to people that the european union is helping them to protect their rights. this is not about the question of fighting terrorism. that is the consensus of this house and does not need to be discussed. but where are we in the discussion? first we started with the passenger data, now the swift name is behind it. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. and swift doesn't even have a u.s. office, just a database. that's enough for american regulators to get their hands on swift in belgium. it is a red thread, there is more and more american regulation of european affairs, which the united states is appropriating without us europeans being able to take countermeasures and control them. that is why i am making an urgent appeal to the commission to take action here and to the council to make one thing clear beyond checking - germany is not only the president of the european council but also of the g7: how can we act together against terrorism on the basis of our common values and with respect for data protection and human dignity?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in my view, the presidency should follow the following negotiating directives in the new negotiations with the united states on the transfer of passenger data. firstly, the achievement of an adequate level of safety is subject to the principle of proportionality, which does not seem to exist in the present contracts. this is related to the fact that, secondly, the observance of data protection standards common in europe must be implemented, and this in my view involves changing the status quo, above all by a quantitative reduction of behavioural data. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airlines are able to operate on the same basis as the airlines. this includes a precise framework for the use of data, a limitation on the storage period and, last but not least, the possibility of legal action in the event of misuse of data. mr president, you were right when you said that we need legal certainty for european airlines as soon as possible. as a transport politician, i can only agree with that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for the purposes of terrorism. we should negotiate before that horizon. the maintenance of our right to freedom of movement, which can only be achieved in an open society where citizens can move freely without being subject to general suspicion, must always be kept in mind. we as parliamentarians cannot accept that the principle of equality is violated and that different levels of data protection apply to us citizens and non-us citizens. i trust in the determination of the german presidency of the council in the negotiations! i know it won't be easy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it should make you think that you've heard the same song across factions. and this song says that we need, of course, a transatlantic partnership and that we are allies in the fight against terrorism. but even the melody was the same, that in these matters, credibility, trust and transparency are necessary. let's start with credibility. i can remember very well that in his last speech here the commissioner praised the data protection provisions of the convention in particular. i do not think that this is compatible with the rights we have from a data protection point of view. there are no obligations to provide information or to have the data subject's rights to be corrected in the field of passenger data. and what credibility is there in calling the talks you are having with the united states 'negotiations'? you're backed up against the wall, gun to your chest. the united states is threatening to ban aircraft from landing, and the european union has no backbone in any institution, so we will not be treated with any kind of friendly understanding. the credibility suffers from the fact that we keep hearing that parliament should be involved. if you're serious about this, then take us to the table. do this to prove you mean business. the transparency: who among european citizens knows that when they board an aircraft, 34 data sets are transmitted, including food, seats, etc.? none of them. i was just on a talk show with citizens. nobody knows that's what happens when you get on a plane. we're with you, but you can take us with you instead of feeding us to the place-keepers!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. commissioner, you are very ambitious in protecting passive smokers. unfortunately, this real urgency in the area of obesity is not yet so clear. i would have liked to see more binding proposals in this green paper, so that it would have been clear that we are entering a phase of legislation rather than appealing to industry to make a commitment of its own. we know from so many other areas that these are really just stop-and-go maneuvers. according to who figures, 1.5 billion people worldwide are overweight, while 800 million suffer from hunger. this shows that while it is a global problem, it is also a particular problem within the european union, where one in four children is affected by obesity. we have 300,000 new cases every year. it is high time to act. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we would have liked the commission to have had the courage to propose a ban on trans fats in industrially produced food. we know that trans fats are harmful. i am glad that some member states have now had the courage to ban it. but i would have liked the commission to have had the courage to propose such a ban for the european union. i hope we can catch up! another important aspect would be the prohibition of using toys as a lure for junk food for children, something in fast food restaurants. i think we need to make it clear once again - and i conclude with this - that we really need to do more in advertising to make sure that obesity and the threat of diabetes in children and adolescents is not rampant.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur: mrs ries, i found your report from the outset to be quite balanced and, in principle, acceptable. i think i can judge this because i have been dealing for more than three years with the problem of the increasing obesity of europeans, especially children, in the context of the notorious nutrition and health claims on foodstuffs. it is particularly important to me to look at the problem from a holistic point of view. it is a problem of society as a whole. it is not the individual foods or the seductive advertising for them that makes people fatter and thus more susceptible to disease. we know that the real problem is our modern lifestyle: we don't move enough! but can the legislature solve this problem? i still think that advertising bans in general are a matter of concern. because they suggest that a product is bad and is to blame for the misery. in the eyes of our citizens, this is state-directness, and it only produces european exasperation and rejection in the individual. but what about the responsibility of citizens themselves? are they suddenly underage? what about the responsibility of parents to their children? we have to get it back. but of course we must also enable europeans to take on this responsibility through better education, through clear food labelling, through education on healthy lifestyles. parents want a good and healthy future for their children! but we must not forget the european principle of subsidiarity. we can and must only be the mediator of ideas between the member states. it is not our competence to intervene, for example, in the school sector. this is regulated nationally or regionally, as in germany. the principle is that legal coercion is the wrong way to go. pressure creates a counter-pressure. we must convince the people and take them into our politics. that's the only way we're gonna succeed!
member of the commission. mr president, i shall aim to comply with my allotted speaking time so that we can finish before midnight! of course we welcome this report which is so focused on mainstreaming sustainability in development cooperation policies. i am pleased to know that this report is well in tune with our own analysis of this subject. the commission is fully committed to improving the mainstreaming of sustainability in our development cooperation. the overarching objective of this cooperation is the eradication of poverty in the context of sustainable development. we are working in the direction of most of the recommendations which are made in the report, and i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs budreikaitė. i shall illustrate this only with a few examples. firstly, we are improving the mainstreaming of environmental concerns in development policies in a variety of ways, for example by staff training, by setting up an environmental helpdesk, by systematic preparation of country and regional environmental profiles and, whenever relevant, strategic environmental assessments and environmental impact assessments. secondly, we are stepping up assistance to developing countries to adapt to climate change. we are working to enhance our alliance-building with the developing countries in the area of climate change adaptation and mitigation. because the most immediate effect of climate change on developing countries is the incidence of extreme weather phenomena, we are also preparing a new disaster risk reduction strategy. thirdly, we are promoting clean and renewable energy through specific projects. another new initiative that has been well received by the international community is the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund. fourthly, we are working hard towards preventing the import of illegally sourced wood via the negotiation of voluntary partnership agreements under the forest law enforcement governance and trade initiative. negotiations have recently started with malaysia, ghana and indonesia. lastly, we are programming resources for building capacity in developing countries to prevent illegal dumping of toxic waste and to clean stocks of solid pesticides. the efforts needed to deal with these objectives and with others also raised in the report certainly remain considerable. the european parliament’s support in relation to the development cooperation instrument and the environment and natural resources climatic strategy will be critical, and from this point of view i want to express gratitude for your engagement and support.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i can only warmly thank the rapporteur, mrs budreikaitė, for her excellent work. the report is very balanced and does not give rise to any controversy. the key statements that the development committee wanted to make in this report are contained here, namely, firstly, the challenges of climate change, secondly, the protection of biodiversity, thirdly, debt relief for the least developed countries, fourthly, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises for better social, environmental and economic cooperation in the countries of the south and, fifthly, more foreign direct investment and greater export diversification. the report calls on the commission to base all community development programmes on transparency and accountability, as corruption in developing countries is detrimental to sustainability. parliament therefore advocates the establishment of independent anti-corruption bodies and calls for adequate resources to be allocated to this end, and i can only ask all members to vote in favour of this report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a particular honour for me, madam president, that this subject is being discussed today, when you have the opportunity for the first time to preside over a sitting in this house. the action plan on company law originally envisaged examining what other forms of company law within the european union could be considered for legislation. the studies have left these questions essentially open at that time. the commission has already discussed the action plan on company law a few years ago and has completely revised it. parliament has been closely involved in this debate, and it is against this background that we in the european parliament have decided to put an own-initiative report on european private enterprise on display in kiel and to discuss it here. that is the background to today's agenda item. we have looked at this matter carefully and held a hearing in the european parliament. this hearing has shown quite impressively that there is a real need for such a european private company, for such a legislative initiative on the part of the commission. smes, especially those in the industrial sector, which are export oriented in the european union and are currently forced to establish themselves and set up businesses in other member states under the company law of those countries, would greatly appreciate a uniform european legal form to organise their subsidiaries throughout the european union. at the moment they have a great need for advice, which is admittedly good for lawyers, but it also costs a lot of money because it is necessary to examine in detail again and again what rights and obligations their directors, the members of supervisory boards actually have and how they must behave so that they do not get into a situation where they can come into conflict with the law. i think that this can be avoided by offering a uniform european legal form which would regulate a number of key issues, in particular the powers of directors, but also liability issues, in a uniform manner at european level and would be an offer to companies. that is why there is no question of any additional bureaucracy. the companies themselves can decide whether they want to have this legal form or not. this is just an offer to the companies. so there is a real legal gap here, since we have already created the european joint stock company for large companies. i would also like to say, in passing, that the case law of the european court of justice in the inspire art case, for example, can also be explained by the fact that there has been too little progress in the development of european company law in the past. here we could help to offer and create a model structure in the european union. i believe that the legal affairs committee, which adopted this report by a large majority or even unanimously, has also succeeded in finding a suitable compromise between the different approaches to the structure of such societies in continental europe and in the legal area shaped by british legal thought. this applies in particular to the question of equity capital, where we have found a good compromise by saying: there should be equity capital in principle, but there is no obligation to pay it in. this can also mean easier registration, and i believe that this is a step in the right direction and also shows how the commission can make a proposal and how the council can also find a reasonable compromise between the different legal traditions. we in the legal affairs committee - and i think after today's vote we in the european parliament - expect the commission to act now, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty, our rules of procedure and the interinstitutional agreement, and to take concrete steps to present a concrete legislative proposal to this house and to the council in the foreseeable future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i want to make it very clear here - and this was not disputed in the discussions - that nobody wants to restrict existing workers' rights in any way. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there have been a number of amendments on this point. i do not think they are all decisive, because they all have the same objective in mind: to protect workers' rights. one last note, and i've got my five minutes. i was pleased to note that the german presidency of the council has also made this issue of european private society one of its priorities. i therefore expect the council to support this proposal in the same way as i hope an overwhelming majority of this house will do.
member of the commission. madam president, firstly i would like to thank the committee on legal affairs, and in particular the rapporteur, mr lehne, for the excellent work done in the preparation of the report on the european private company statute on which you will vote today. my departments are already studying in detail the suggestions and recommendations proposed in this report. we need to make it easier and cheaper for small and medium-sized companies to conduct cross-border business. it is important to take action that will help small and medium firms to reap fully the benefits of the single market. the growth of small businesses is crucial for the competitiveness of the european economy. one means of facilitating the expansion of small businesses is to simplify the current legal framework and reduce unnecessary administrative burdens. these burdens are particularly onerous for smes that do not have big legal departments at their disposal. that is why i have decided to present a communication on the simplification of eu company law in the spring of this year. this fits in with the broader programme of the commission on simplification of the acquis communautaire which provides for a 25% reduction in administrative burdens by 2012. i am all for initiatives that will give european firms, and in particular small and medium companies, a flexible regulatory framework. the european private company statute could be a useful option for them in this respect. the idea was supported by industry in the recent public consultation on future priorities for the action plan on company law and corporate governance. many respondents stressed that such an option would create more choice for companies and reduce compliance costs for firms which wish to operate in several member states. however, a number of our respondents also questioned the usefulness of such a measure and, as you know, in accordance with better regulation principles the commission must carry out an impact assessment before any initiative is proposed. accordingly, my departments are now examining the costs and benefits of such a statute, as well as alternative measures to address the problems at stake. i would only propose a european private company statute if the impact assessment clearly shows that this is the most appropriate instrument to tackle the problems smes face today and that the european private company form would be useful to them in expanding their activities and developing their businesses across borders. experience with the european company statute has shown that creating a new european corporate form can be a very long and complex process. the end result may be legal instruments that are not always easy to use. if a european private company statute is to be worthwhile, then agreement would need to be found swiftly. the end result would have to be simple for smes to use, thereby bringing real added value. i note that your report and associated resolution are based on article 192 of the treaty calling on the commission to submit a legislative proposal. under the framework agreement, the commission undertook to take account of any such request made pursuant to article 192 of the treaty. i intend to live up to these commitments. we will assess the practical suggestions set out in the report in detail. i want my departments to take the time necessary to consider carefully all possible options in order to provide the best balanced solution for smes. upon conclusion of the impact assessment, i will report back to you on its results and the policy conclusions we draw from it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i, too, as a former colleague on the committee on the internal market, wish you well in your presidency. if all the presidents were to keep the chamber as quiet as you did this morning, our discussions would indeed be much more constructive, and i can only ask you to continue in this way! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a one-way street. this is repeatedly stated, but progress towards this goal is often too slow. the creation of a european legal framework which is particularly aimed at the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises is therefore, in my view, a very important concern, also for the committee on the internal market. the own-initiative report by mr klaus-heiner lehne is therefore to be strongly supported because it sends an important signal to the commission - and i would add to the presidency of the council - and i would like to thank him for his excellent work on this dossier. many small and mediumsized enterprises - you have seen this for yourself, commissioner, when you visited my constituency of offenburg - are already, thank god, operating across borders. in many cases, however, this commitment and growth is hampered by bureaucratic obstacles and a lack of experience in local legal situations. this has so far meant a significant competitive disadvantage for small and medium-sized enterprises in the new member states. in addition to maintaining national legal forms, the provision of a european legal form in the future not only contributes to the further completion of the european internal market but also makes it easier for smes to set up subsidiaries in other european countries and thus to develop activities beyond their own borders. the main advantage is that the consultancy and administrative costs of setting up and running a company can be considerably reduced and that the laws of different member states no longer apply to cross-border activities. a survey by the ihk in germany - i can only limit myself to german companies - has shown that there is a strong desire among companies for a european legal form that is friendly to smes. the small sister of the europa ag should be slim, practical and above all european, according to the companies surveyed. the european parliament therefore recommends in its report, commissioner, that the commission should present a legislative proposal based on article 308 later this year. we are naturally pleased that you support the impact assessment, but we have also seen in other directives in the field of the internal market and consumer protection that, if the political will is there, the impact assessment can be carried out either quickly or limited to certain individual issues. i would therefore ask you to speed up the impact assessment in order to come to a legislative proposal as soon as possible. i would also ask the german presidency to pursue this matter as soon as possible and with urgency.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, it is a pleasure to see you in the chair. what is interesting and fascinating about this debate is that we are talking about a plurilateral agreement that is very specific in character. it is, of course, part of the multilateral framework but, as it is plurilateral in character, it allows much more flexibility for those member states that are part of this agreement. with regard to this, and as it is its tenth anniversary, could the commissioner tell us a little bit about it: how it worked in the past, whether he is satisfied with it and thinks it is a worthwhile undertaking that is worth renegotiating. it is not part of his portfolio, but does he consider that it is also worthwhile renegotiating the telecoms agreement, which is also ten years old this year? with regard to the agreement on government procurement – which mr audy mentioned – we are very concerned about smes, because we know by experience that they are definitely having much more difficulty in accessing international markets. what is the commission going to do about it beyond what has been done in the past? china is of great concern. we are happy to have china as part of the global environment, but it puts a lot of pressure on some companies. so once china becomes a member of the plurilateral agreement, what safeguards will the commissioner put in place to safeguard the interests of european companies and workers? how much is this exercise part of global europe? how much is it related to the new approach from the commission agreeing on different bilateral agreements and what will be part of this connection? with regard to services of general interest, how, again, will the commissioner ensure that european interests will be safeguarded? can the commissioner tell us more about that? he has not touched on that. finally, can the commissioner ensure that parliament will be kept informed? can he promise that the committee on international trade, which has just elected its new chairman this morning, will also be kept informed?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. madam president congratulations on the election commissioner! the convention on public procurement is so far limited to oecd countries. government expenditure on public supply, services and construction contracts accounts for about 10-25% of gdp. china has in the meantime begun to consider possible accession. the current renegotiations are all about widening the scope of the treaty, and that would of course greatly increase the importance of this treaty in the international exchange of goods and services. in the review process, the commission should focus on greater transparency and the fight against corruption in international public procurement. but given the pressing environmental challenges, environmental sustainability must be given high priority in the public sector. and that, as i understand it, also means that regulations are necessary in this respect. for example, it must be legal and legitimate to give preference to environmentally friendly goods and services in public procurement, even if the price is marginally higher. a crucial issue is how to deal with developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the renegotiated document we are talking about here can only be applied to partners of comparable strength. in this sense, i think the notion of non-discrimination and reciprocity is problematic. i think that once again the approach is to equate the highly industrialized countries with the developing countries, and that cannot work. the proposed provisions for developing countries, including the three-year or for ldc five-year transition period, are wholly inadequate to convince them to join the treaty. i believe that this will unfortunately lead to many of these countries remaining outside the agreement, which i consider to be a disadvantage for a plurilateral approach.
mr president, commissioner mccreevy, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the question put by the committee on foreign trade on the problem of procurement at wto level also has direct implications for the european internal market. i therefore believe that we need to look more closely at the implications for the european single market of this issue. of course, on the one hand it is the world trade agreement, but on the other hand we must also see that these treaties have a direct impact on the european internal market at international level - as is the case with globalisation. mr kamall pointed out that in some wto member states, such as the united states of america, national quotas for small and mediumsized enterprises are already in force. this ultimately means that the scope of the procurement rules prescribed by the wto is restricted. i would like to see an impact assessment of whether this will be beneficial for small and mediumsized enterprises in the long term. it's not guaranteed, though. until we know for sure, we need not worry about limiting the scope of application. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would certainly be valuable - and i support this request - if the commission could look into this in depth and show us whether it has a positive impact on small and mediumsized enterprises. the council - unfortunately, none of its representatives is present at the moment - must of course strike a balance between those who would like to have an approach like that in the usa and those who want the exact opposite, namely that these quotas be reduced so that we have a free and open market throughout the wto, so that small and mediumsized enterprises can benefit everywhere. i therefore believe that the crucial problem for smes in this context is that we have not really got the issue of subcontracting under control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the regions concerned. i think that we should look more closely at this problem and i would therefore be glad if the commission would give it some thought and keep us informed. the commission should therefore first of all deal with the problem posed by this question before we address specific requests to the commissioner.
i would like to thank mr parvanov for his report. mr president, i would like to welcome you to the european parliament. it is a great honour to welcome you to the european parliament. it is not the first time that you have been a guest in our house, but it is the first time that i have had the pleasure of welcoming you as president of a new member of our european family. on behalf of the citizens of the european union represented in this house, i would like to express once again my pleasure at the accession of your country to the european union. i would also like to stress once again the historic importance of the enlargement of the european union which took place on 1 january this year. it has taken more than 60 years to bring your country back into the fold of free europe and to reunite our continent. bulgaria is an ancient country of culture, situated at the crossroads between east and west. it is said that here, in 1681, the oldest state in europe was founded by tsar asparukh. bulgaria is the land of orpheus and eurydice, the home of the thracians and dionysus. and yet, what a longing for europe is expressed in the words of elias canetti, the nobel prize winner for literature, who was born in ruschuk, bulgaria, when he says of his birthplace: 'the rest of the world was called europe there, and if someone sailed up the danube to vienna, they said he was going to europe, yes, europe began there.' this yearning for europe is linked in the hearts of the bulgarians to the deep feeling of having always been at the heart of europe. canetti wanted to use the story of his childhood to bring about the reunification of europe. the accession of your country once again symbolizes what europe is all about, the daily experience of having a common soul, that european soul which, across borders, is the meaning of european unity. your country, mr president parvanov, has a rich cultural and spiritual heritage and will contribute to the mutual enrichment of the european union and bulgaria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. you've made great progress. many reforms were implemented in a relatively short time. these achievements are to be expressly acknowledged here. but i would also add that we hope and are convinced that the reforms still needed will be carried out with the same determination. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament is proud and happy to have 18 new bulgarian members in our house. i am also delighted to welcome the new bulgarian commissioner. we are all very pleased to welcome the colleagues who will be voting in your country's first european elections in may. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. welcome to the european union!
president of the republic of bulgaria. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your contribution to the debate on the future of the european union. since 1 january 2007, bulgaria has been part of the european union - perhaps the most ambitious political, economic and cultural project in human history. continuing what you have so kindly said, mr. chairman, i want to make it clear that january 1st, 2007 is a triumph of historical justice. the roots and prerequisites of this phenomenon are in the centuries-old development of bulgarian spirituality and statehood. in spirit and self-confidence, bulgarians have always been europeans. our culture is indeed at the foundation of european civilization. and so it is historically justified today, through bulgarian membership, to have the language of the holy brothers cyril and methodius, proclaimed as the heavenly co-patrons of europe, sound in the european union, which will undoubtedly further enrich the cultural diversity of the european continent. but we, the honourable members of the european parliament, are well aware that our membership is not because of historical tradition, but because the bulgarian institutions have carried out those much-needed reforms in all areas. our country has undergone a historic transformation into a democratic country with a functioning and competitive market economy, with a working and effective legislation. the success was also made possible by the high level of public support, by the involvement of civil society structures. we succeeded because we spent years following and making european policy. because we proved that we bulgarians can be trusted. i am honoured to have the opportunity to address the european parliament from the high rostrum in the very first weeks of our membership. i take this opportunity to thank the european parliament for the support it has given bulgaria throughout the accession process, for the constructive criticism and encouragement to continue the pro-european reforms. the importance of this support is determined by the increased role of the european parliament as the direct voice of the will of almost half a billion people in a united europe. i would also like to congratulate mr pöttering on his election as president of the european parliament, the bulgarian and romanian commissioners, and the 18 bulgarian and romanian members, and wish them fruitful and successful work for the common good. we, ladies and gentlemen, have long since abandoned the pathetic attitude and the propaganda over-expectations of our membership of the european union. we recognise that, alongside the clear positives for our economy, it will face serious challenges, particularly in terms of achieving greater competitiveness. the problems are compounded by the fact that the obligations to the european union come into force immediately, while the benefits will come with a delay, more or less. it is therefore very important that we quickly formulate and implement a strategy and policy of accelerated development with a view to successfully adapting our country to the european socio-economic environment. the fifth enlargement of the european union was accompanied by a number of real fears and imaginary fears, sometimes artificially instilled. many of them didn't make it. the mass migration waves that some predicted did not occur. expectations of severe strain on social systems have been exaggerated. in this sense, we are puzzled why some of the member states have not opened their labour markets to bulgarians as they did to the countries that joined in 2004. i believe that by removing the last barriers to my fellow citizens, the european union and the european idea will win. on the other hand, i expect young bulgarians who have sought and received higher education, some of them and good realization outside, in the european union, to return working for larger western investors or starting their own business. we are well aware that membership of the european union is not a one-off act, that it is a continuous process. a process which will require us to make additional efforts in the coming months and years to respond to the recommendations of the european institutions. to take on additional responsibilities as a result of our membership. efforts are needed to fit into the european economic and social model, to raise the living standard of the bulgarian to that of the leading european countries and nations. this, mr president, means continuing the reforms, especially in the judicial system, to achieve visible and irreversible results in the fight against corruption and crime, and to ensure the transparent and effective use of european funds. we are ambitious to achieve, to demonstrate a solid capacity to assume the obligations arising from membership and common policies in the various fields. i am convinced that enlargement of the european union is in the mutual interest of both the new member states and the existing ones. new members are given the opportunity to participate in the definition and formulation of european union policies and programmes, to benefit from community funds. but i want to make it clear that we are entering the european union not to be consumers, but with the desire, with the aspiration to really strengthen the union with our stable macroeconomic indicators, with our dynamic development in recent years, with our ability to generate security, especially for a difficult, complex region such as the balkans. bulgaria is joining the european union with the intention of playing an active role in the debate on the entire union agenda: on the constitutional draft, on achieving a very effective interaction between the institutions, on financing, on the conduct of a single foreign and security and defence policy. i would like to express our support for the initiative of the german presidency and of the chancellor, mrs angela merkel, in person, to consult on a kind of road map for the progress of the draft constitution. bulgaria enters with the ambition to defend, ladies and gentlemen, its national interest, from culture to energy security. but at the same time, we must also be aware that we can and must be a solidary member of the european union, that we can and will make the necessary sacrifices and compromises when it comes to the common european interest. bulgaria will be a stable, predictable, consistent member of the european union and this is the opinion of all bulgarian institutions. i believe that it has been represented with dignity by our members of parliament here. bulgaria enters the european union with the best traditions of ethno-religious tolerance, established over the decades. we can offer a solid, working, reasoned expertise in european decision-making concerning the balkan issues. in this context, i would like to emphasise once again that the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union is an important political sign of the irreversible european perspective of the balkans. this is the strongest possible motivation for the peoples and governments to preserve the lasting peace of south-eastern europe. there is no stronger, more compelling motivation than to preserve this perspective for the peoples of the western balkans. bulgaria will therefore continue to support our neighbours, morally, politically and expertly, in their efforts to meet the specific requirements and criteria for membership, to solve their problems in advance, and not to 'import' them, figuratively speaking, into the organisation of democratic countries. we need to develop the european vision for the western balkans, as laid down in the thessaloniki agenda. and we must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that many of the good ideas and projects for south-eastern europe have remained in the books. it is time to understand that there is a particularly important investment in peace and security in the region, and that is the development of infrastructure of modern transport, communication and energy infrastructure. this is the shortest way to overcome its economic and social backwardness and to integrate it fully. the solution to this problem cannot be achieved without attracting investment from the european union, as a natural economic partner and centre of attraction for the countries of the region. and that's why no gifts are necessary. there are working schemes for public-private partnerships, which we have repeatedly justified, and through which we could unblock work on european corridors no 4, no 8 or no 10, the added value of bulgarian accession to the european union, the opportunities for strengthening the common foreign and security policy, above all with a focus on the western balkans, the black sea basin and the caucasus. regions which are also priorities for the union's external relations. moreover, their strategic weight in international relations will objectively increase. we are ready and willing to actively participate with our knowledge and experience in defining and implementing the european union's policy in this part of europe. however, bulgaria has already demonstrated its ability to act actively in implementing some of the main focuses of this policy - energy security, infrastructure, prevention of terrorism, illegal migration and the environment. at the same time, our common vision should also include concrete measures to improve the interaction between the european union and the black sea economic cooperation organisation. ladies and gentlemen, bulgaria is ready to participate in the debate on europe's common energy security. we will have our active position, not only because in the energy sector we pay the highest price for joining the european union. we are entering with the confidence of a country that is a factor of energy security in the region, not only because we have covered a not insignificant part - 45% - of the energy deficit of our neighbours. i certainly think that the european commission's document of january this year on europe's energy policy provides a solid basis for the development of a common energy policy. we highly appreciate the contribution of the german presidency with its clearly formulated emphasis on environmentally friendly energy supply within the european union. bulgaria, for its part, will have its contribution, its european contribution, as a hub for the transit of oil and gas from east to west, in the search for and development of renewable energy sources, with its achievements and capabilities in the field of energy research. i consider particularly important, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions and intentions on the development of nuclear energy which are substantiated in the new european documents. i decided to talk about this in more detail here in front of you for a couple of reasons. firstly, because the european parliament is the institution that has shown a particularly keen understanding of energy problems in south-east europe, particularly in bulgaria. and i take this opportunity to thank the foreign affairs committee, mr geoffrey van orden, rapporteur for bulgaria, mr ari vatanen, who initiated the letter to the european commission, and all the members who have actively participated, engaged in the discussions on the fate of the small reactors at the kozloduy nuclear power plant. unfortunately, the vote for this text was not as high as four or five. however, it is worth asking what the real consequences are of the fact that units 3 and 4 of our nuclear power plant have been decommissioned. the region is facing a serious energy crisis. now some of the countries are experiencing acute shortages, there's a country with a heavy electricity regime. this, together with rising prices, could lead to economic and political instability in the region. secondly, i must admit that i was provoked by the energy policy commissioner's statement that units 3 and 4 had been shut down due to safety concerns. let it be clear, ladies and gentlemen, we, more than anyone, insist on the safety of our nuclear power plant. this also explains the fact that we closed the first two reactors of the kozloduy npp as early as 31 december 2002. the commission notes that the construction of the new terminal was not subject to any formal investigation. numerous projects by the world association of nuclear operators, the association of western european nuclear regulators, the atomic affairs group of the council of the european union, the international atomic energy agency have demonstrated that there are no technical reasons preventing normal operation and have demonstrated a high level of safety in accordance with international standards. the commission will be presenting to all members a report containing the main conclusions of this report. and i don't mind, in an open debate, seeing what the counter-arguments are, seeing what the facts are that the doubts are based on. moreover, i want to make it clear that if our partners in the european union deem it necessary, bulgaria would accept a new peer review of units 3 and 4 of our nuclear power plant, to be carried out with the cooperation of all the above-mentioned bodies concerned with nuclear energy. of course, with a clear mandate for such an inspection. we, the members of the european parliament, strictly adhere to the established principle in international relations that treaties must be respected. bulgaria has also fulfilled its commitments correctly. if there is a will now to assess the complex situation in the region, the threats to individual countries, including bulgaria, a solution can be found within the framework of the accession treaty, by referring to article 36. because as we make joint decisions on the future of our european energy security, let us also think about its present. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to end by addressing an important and painful issue for bulgarians and, i believe, for all of you: the fate of the doctors convicted in libya. the protection of their rights has become a cause not only for bulgarian society but also for the international democratic community. in this respect, it is of particular importance to us that a few days after bulgaria's accession to the european union, we have received the full support and solidarity of the european parliament. we thank you for this solidarity and hope that it will continue and contribute to a quick and fair solution to this problem. we also appreciate the sympathy that the european institutions and the member states have shown towards the children affected by the tragedy and their families. (applause) i'm going to do that. more active action is needed, more effort is needed both on the action plan and on the implementation of the objectives of the international fund for benghazi. anyway, i just want to say that i find the participation of the big oil companies, who have their own good business in libya, to be too symbolic in this fund. bulgaria, for its part, will continue to be sympathetic to these efforts. in parallel, we will also seek a solution through bilateral dialogue with the libyan side and in active cooperation with the european commission, the presidency of the european union and the member states. we expect that the resolution of this issue will remain a priority in the relations between the european union and libya. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, a strong europe is only possible if there are strong leaders - statesmen and politicians who are able to impose a vision and take concrete decisions - in order to overcome the delay in the draft constitution, to keep the prospect of enlargement of the european union alive, to take the necessary steps to shape the common energy policy. bulgaria will make its contribution to make all this possible. thank you, thank you! (assembly applauding the speaker's feet)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we thank you for this speech. you gave a speech that encourages us because you said that you want to continue to work with determination to reform bulgaria. you want to step up efforts to bring about the necessary reforms, and you have made a firm commitment to support the necessary reforms in the european union, that is to say, to promote our common constitutional project. you also spoke of solidarity and confidence in the european union. solidarity and trust are the most important. we are grateful that bulgaria is in the european union, and we promise you one thing: the european parliament will continue to advocate for the freedom of the bulgarian nurses until they are returned to bulgaria from libya. tell that to your countrymen! (applause from the centre) we thank you for your visit; you have come here to brussels only to speak before the european parliament! you have no further obligations here. we thank you for this, we wish you a safe return to sofia, a good future for bulgaria and all the best for the president of bulgaria! (applause from the centre)
i am not sure that this is the case. we have a very comprehensive programme and we can come back to this after the votes. i gave you the floor, you normally have a minute, you spoke for 1 minute and 53 seconds. take that as an example of the imperative to special fairness. i hope you'll take this with a grain of salt. we shall come back to this question after the votes.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would urge you to use the opportunity provided for in rule 168 (2) of our rules of procedure to refer this report back to the committee for the following reasons: i am familiar with the problems of article 90; the report certainly describes accurately the situation of the dalits, the so-called untouchables, in india, and it is equally clear that none of us approves of these conditions and we are committed to doing what we can. but obviously there has been considerable opposition from india to the report because it deals with the caste system in india and therefore with something that is part of the tradition and culture there. i therefore ask you to consider whether it would not be wise, in the interests of what we want, to discuss this again in committee, even if what is decided afterwards is not at all different from the present motion for a resolution. but it would be wise to talk to the indian authorities again, because all too often we europeans are the ones pointing fingers at others, which in the end does more harm than good to the objectives we are pursuing. that is why i ask you to proceed wisely.
i am not going to go into detail. we must abide by the law. i now read to you article 90 (4) of the treaty. listen carefully, it's a rather difficult legal language, but this is the article the president has to abide by, because the president has to abide by the law. article 90 (4) reads as follows: 'recommendations thus formulated shall be placed on the agenda of the next partsession. in urgent cases decided by the president, recommendations may be placed on the agenda for a sitting. recommendations shall be deemed to have been adopted unless at least 40 members have raised objections in writing before the beginning of the meeting. in this case, the committee's recommendations shall be placed on the agenda of the same meeting for discussion and vote. amendments may be tabled by a political group or by at least 40 members. other i must say here - and i am bound by my right, that is my duty - that no written request was made by 40 members before the sitting. i therefore recommend that the committees concerned continue to deal with the matter, as it is a very delicate matter, and if the committees reach a different conclusion at a different time, that is fine. but i must now proceed as provided for in the rules of procedure of this parliament. (applause from the centre)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. all our efforts in the field of environment and health are aimed at protecting health. the responsibility lies with the member states and must remain so. the concept of precaution is becoming increasingly important. the ries report highlights the health risks of overweight, obesity and chronic diseases. why are our children overweight? what are the causes? the discussion must be held to create awareness, especially in families. the school and general education must teach the everyday skills of health-conscious use of our bodies. we need to bring about social change to prevent these diseases. but it's not just banning advertising, health claims and giving our first-year students gym bags that will do that. our society is fast-paced. both parents work. time for family, education, and cooking is often lacking. the social responsibility of society is thus becoming more and more important, and the teaching of everyday skills must be transferred to schools and educational institutions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. nor can the eu ensure that all people enjoy a lean and healthy life. the member states must take action and take measures. they must be implemented by the people themselves.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.30 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 1 february 2007.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 8 february 2007, in accordance with rules 130 and 131, has been distributed. the socialist group has asked for the report by mr lehne on the exercise of certain rights attaching to voting rights, which should be voted on under rule 131, to be discussed and put on the agenda for thursday afternoon at 3 p.m.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i have no objection to a debate on this subject, of course: it can be held with pleasure. i would simply ask that we actually vote on this this week, because we have reached a consensual agreement with the council here at committee level and the council intends to agree relatively quickly and expeditiously to what we decide here. if we are dealing with this legislative report on thursday afternoon, then it would probably not make sense to vote on it on thursday afternoon. i therefore ask that the debate be held either on thursday morning or wednesday evening. there are still time windows on both days. if we do that, we could vote on thursday at noon.
the socialist group is asking for the report by mr gahler on budgetary aid to developing countries to be postponed until wednesday evening. i call mr swoboda to speak on the grounds.
mr gahler is in favour of this. that is the formal answer. (parliament adopted the resolution) the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in darfur, which will be submitted to the council and the european parliament.
mr corbett, this matter was discussed in the conference of presidents last week and the majority was against using that procedure.
you have every right to express your surprise at this decision. there are two aspects: first, the majority in the conference of presidents; and then, regardless of that majority, the fact that the president can take a decision one way or the other. this is a further aspect of the question and one which will certainly be considered in greater depth in future in the light of your remarks.
ok, but even that would require a meeting of the committee responsible.
that is correct in principle, but the president of the council is of course also keen to have the consent of the majority of parliament, especially on such sensitive matters, and that is why the conference of presidents, in agreement with the president of parliament, has finally decided as it now stands. i think the vast majority of people would like to vote on wednesday as well. that is the idea behind the whole discussion. for the future we will go deeper into the discussion and keep in touch with everyone who might have remarks to make. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
we'll check that to make sure the correct date is there, february 16. june 24th is john the baptist.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to remember the political prisoners mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev. they were charged again on the basis of abstract charges to prevent an early release as provided by russian law. the judiciary is continuing its absurd show trial of the former owners of the jukos group, which is clearly politically motivated. khodorkovsky's commitment to democratizing russian society brought him into opposition to putin. after the break-up of the major oil company, the largest shares of the company are in state hands. a russia which disregards basic human rights - as we have just heard in munich - is a very problematic partner for the eu. we should be monitoring this process on the ground and protesting against such practices.
i would like to explain to you that the choice of speakers is also about who spoke last. you might be wondering why someone isn't getting in touch. it is always a bit of a question of who had the floor last time, who will not necessarily have the floor again today. that's why the last one to be called is georgios papastamkos, because he didn't speak last time.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the report by mrs brepoels, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee on the creation of a spatial data infrastructure in the european community (inspire) (pe-cons 3685/2006 c6-0445/2006 2004/0175 ((cod)) (a6-0021/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i take this opportunity to congratulate you on your election to the presidency and i am confident that you will fully meet the expectations of the european citizens and those who elected you. i'll be very brief. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, first of all, i would like to express my warm thanks to the parliament's delegation which took part in the conciliation procedures with the council on 21 november 2006. i would like to thank and congratulate in particular mr vidal-quadras, who was the head of parliament's delegation, and of course the rapporteur, mrs frieda brepoels, whom i would like to commend and thank in particular for her excellent contribution to the discussions throughout the negotiations. we have thus secured a strong foundation on which to build a comprehensive spatial information infrastructure in europe. such infrastructure is necessary for the following reasons: first of all, good legislation is based on good information. good information means comprehensive analyses of the environmental problems we face, the causes of these problems and the possible effects of the various solutions. these analyses require geographical data. at present, our policy making is hampered by the fact that this data is scattered across different information banks which are difficult to access. in addition, different data storage rules are used, making it impossible to combine them with other data, which would facilitate policy-making. i am glad that we have been able to overcome the last difficulties and reach a satisfactory result. the commission approves the compromise text without reservation and i would urge parliament to accept the good result achieved by its negotiating team.
i thank you very much, commissioner dimas. i would like to thank you personally for your good wishes and we will continue to work well together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the two rapporteurs and in particular mrs jackson, who is clearly doing a mammoth job of finding compromises in a very complex set of rules. however, in the course of the first reading so far, i have had the impression that the european parliament is doing the opposite of what we originally wanted to achieve with the amendment to this legislation, namely a simplification and de-bureaucratisation of european waste legislation. we need flexibility in the application of the waste hierarchy. this flexibility is necessary to enable economically and environmentally sound material flows in practice. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. in practice, they will not provide for the flexible handling of the hierarchy, but will do just the opposite. life cycle analysis is at odds with our goal of waste prevention: it produces useless paper. i know that the reservations about a flexible waste hierarchy are very strong. to reduce these, a look at the practice of modern waste management will help. new technical methods have brought new solutions. we should not outlaw best practice by passing a new law. there is no longer any reason not to treat material and energy recovery equally. if you really want to conserve resources and create a circular economy, you have to let go of the ideological blinders. a few words about self-sufficiency: market regulation should in principle have no place in environmental legislation. they are counterproductive both ecologically and economically. it is regrettable that in environmental legislation we are turning the internal market on or off at will. it is not a question of preventing tourism to waste, but of finding the best economic and ecological solutions in european competition. unfortunately, the current debate on the principle of self-sufficiency is clearly dominated by national and regional interests.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. i think the commission has put forward a good report which aims to make it clear that waste policy must be a resource policy in the future. if we do not see this in this perspective, our children will one day ask us the most terrible questions about how we have handled the resources of this century. it is therefore right that the commission has focused very much on defining vague legal concepts in the old directive and that it is finally defining clearly what is waste. i am glad that it has been shown that energy recovery is intended to achieve high energy efficiency. what we demand for cars, refrigerators and many other things, we should demand for combustion plants. the principle of better regulation has been fully applied here. i believe that the hierarchy as decided in the committee is a correct development: a five-tier structure which cannot be set in stone - dear green colleagues - but which also allows for mutual flexibility. because even paper, after being recycled seven or eight times, has to go to a proper recycling or incineration plant at some point. i am very concerned about the question of self-sufficiency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. we need both. we need smes and local authorities to compete in the market. if we can do that, it's a good thing. commissioner, you have promised us that you will take a strong stand against illegal exports outside the european union. this must be addressed, and i am very grateful to you for this. i would like to conclude by saying, madam rapporteur, that i regret that we cannot reach a common position on the question of ending the landfill ban. the best thing would be for the landfill to be closed down. then we would really get recycling streams.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know the best thing to do is avoid waste. but if it does, it must first be recycled or reused. only when all these options have been exhausted can waste be disposed of! i am afraid that we are taking a step backwards in waste policy, that the hierarchy of waste recycling is no longer the issue, but that incineration is the one to be given a back wind. it would be a fatal sign if we fail to make it clear that we want to become a prevention and recycling society, but if we make the incineration of waste acceptable and help it to become accepted. it would also be a disservice to climate action, because we know that would be bad for our climate. so we need a clear correction in the vote. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. i also hope that we will be able to set clear targets for prevention and recycling, because only then can we make it clear that we are pursuing a new direction in waste policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are dealing here with a small but important problem, which is the recycling of food scraps. in germany we have a system which makes feeding possible without the risk of disease or bse by sterilising at 133 degrees. when regulation 1774 was adopted in 2002, a permanent solution to the feeding on these conditions was rejected by five votes. the commission had set a four-year transitional period, however, and a proposal was to be submitted during that period. he didn't come! in the meantime, the commission has reviewed this system. there are no complaints from you, the system is considered secure. we therefore believe that it is in line with the recycling idea of this directive and ask the commission to take a positive view of this change and that we can carry out the recycling of food waste in germany and other countries, if a system is set up there, for the benefit of animals and the environment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs. mrs jackson has made a substantial positive change to the original proposal of the european commission. i would like to consider the proposed waste hierarchy in particular from the point of view of conserving resources. this is why this directive is also linked to the current hot topic in europe, namely the security of energy supply. europe's dependence on energy supplies from various third countries puts the question of resource scarcity and resource conservation at the centre of almost every political debate. the recycling of waste should therefore also be a high priority in order to stabilise energy supplies. it's not a royal road, but it's a mosaic stone for the security of the power supply. the example given here is oil. according to common estimates, the world's oil reserves will be exhausted by 2050. that is why i consider it irresponsible that waste oil continues to be burned in large quantities in europe. a third of all lubricants in europe are now made from waste oil, a good technology that should be encouraged in the future. of course, flexibility is required. the paper cannot be recycled and recovered infinitely. i therefore find the amendment on this flexibility extremely important and useful. however, in order to maintain legal certainty, particularly in the field of recycling, it is very important to clearly define when a substance is waste and when it is a product when implementing the directive. there can be no legal vacuum here. it only leads to fraud and uncertainty that we cannot afford. i would like to conclude by referring to the revision of the landfill directive. it is right that landfilling should be reduced. but to argue that methane is escaping and damaging the environment is misleading: there are technologies in place, and already today this gas is being captured and processed into biogas. we should include that. i also support mr graefe's proposal on baringdorf for the recycling of animal feed. commissioner, let us think about this again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. my thanks go to caroline jackson and hans blokland for the good work. with over 1.3 billion tonnes of waste produced in the eu-27 each year, it is not a marginal issue but a central one. the objectives are, in my view, easy to define but difficult to achieve. the first priority is waste prevention. the amount of waste is expected to remain stable until 2012 and to decline significantly thereafter. this requires a number of steps: an ecodesign product directive, increased producer responsibility, traceability of hazardous substances and a sophisticated recycling system. recycling comes before waste management, just as in medicine rehabilitation comes before retirement. these points are seamlessly interlocked. the controversies are being fought hard. in my country, the association of municipal utilities, with a turnover of over 60 billion euros, has a strong position and is very limited in its love of open competition. i welcome open competition in the interests of consumers and the environment. we just need to set the rules of this competition, not the details. the portability of waste must be regulated in terms of substance and risk, not the question of transporters. my thoughts are focused on the future challenges of recycling and product design. i see here the opportunities for europe's future in technology and environmental protection. i am in favour of an open internal market, as we voted in the committee on the environment. it is absurd to think that we can move europe forward with new and restrictive measures in the spirit of the lisbon strategy. i also believe that local competitors have a good chance of competing in a growing market.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am grateful to mrs bozkurt, who has now presented the second report on behalf of the committee on women's rights and has approached the subject with great care and expertise. in view of turkey's possible accession to the european union, we in the european parliament must put the respect for human rights - and in this case women's rights as an integral part of them - at the forefront as a prerequisite for membership. as a member of the socialist group, i see three major blocs in urgent need of action. the first block is education and work. unfortunately, women's participation in the labour market has fallen from 35% in 1998 to 25% today, although it is looking good in some areas, such as lawyers and doctors. but if we want to meet the lisbon targets of 60% participation of women in the labour market, then all this does not fit together - this must be very clear to a possible candidate turkey. education is a key to bringing about development and change. unfortunately, particularly in the east of turkey, a very high proportion of women are still excluded from education, and the illiteracy rate is still 25%. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. we have mr erdoğan's promise to do more here, but that is far from enough. the establishment of women's shelters would be another positive step, and the public debate on violence against women and crimes in the name of honour must continue. one last appeal in view of the elections in turkey: the question of quotas must also be discussed if turkey is to make further progress. the current level of women representation in parliament is 4%, and in local councils it is 1%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted. this is a great service to women and to cooperation between europe and turkey.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i am grateful to the rapporteur, mrs bozkurt, for her report, which describes very well the situation of women in turkey. almost two years after the first publication of your report, i find that despite some progress, there are still serious gaps in gender equality in turkey. the main problems are the high illiteracy rate of around 25% - in some regions even up to 40% - and the still very low number of women in decision-making bodies at local and national level. i am also concerned about the continuing violence against women. unfortunately, there are still no accurate data on the extent of this, as you rightly criticise in your report, mrs bozkurt. in this context, i find it alarming that in turkey, with a population of 70 million, there are only 30 women's shelters, despite the legal requirement to set up shelters for victims of violence in communities with more than 50 000 inhabitants. as for honour killings, it seems that after the increase in the legal penalty, the number of honour killings seems to have decreased. but i am concerned that the increase in suicide in some regions may be a cover for honour killings. the turkish government cannot and must not remain inactive in this matter. it must produce reliable data and set up women's centres that offer both protection and psychological support to women who are at risk of violence. it is only in this way that women and girls in their seemingly hopeless situation can be given a perspective in advance, one which guarantees them, first and foremost, the safety of their lives.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i want to apologize. i was at the coordinators' meeting of the committee on the internal market and will be a little late. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done. it is balanced and constructive. it shows both the progress made and the remaining shortcomings in the field of women's issues and highlights the need to continue the reform process in turkey. prime minister erdoğan is therefore well advised to continue to push forward the policy of gender equality despite a mammoth election year and to promote independent women's work. the report gives a good overview of the role of turkish women in the society, economy and politics of their country. the measures envisaged to combat violence against women, such as the initiative to prevent violence in the context of military service or police training, are welcome. this approach, which is also supported by the turkish minister for women, is important and correct. only such initiatives can bring about the necessary change of mentality. the decree of prime minister erdoğan in response to the report of the turkish parliament on the crimes of honour and violence against women is also a step in the right direction. it addresses many critical issues in women's policy and directs all ministries, public institutions and local administrations to take a firm stand against violence against women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. that's what's missing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. recent experience also highlights the importance of involving public institutions such as the judiciary, the administration, the police and the health authorities in the fight against violence against women. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. too often, women seeking protection have been rejected by the authorities and have become victims of domestic violence. we therefore call on the turkish government to provide all necessary protection to women who are victims of violence and to initiate a judicial investigation and prosecution of those responsible if public institutions fail to provide protection to victims. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary financial support to women's organisations.
in writing. the dangers posed by terrorism to air traffic must not be underestimated or minimized. however, restrictive measures at the expense of passengers must also bring about a real increase in safety. the commission and council decisions which have been in force since november do not show this. the daily situation at europe's airports is characterised by unclear regulations, often differing from one airport to another; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the safety of passengers is being played up, but cannot be guaranteed in an emergency. the commission and the council are therefore invited to revise the regulation in question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is also useful to involve airport practitioners in the preparation of these guidelines.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european council has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. mr president of the european commission, my dear josé manuel durão barroso, mr president of the assembly of the council of europe, dear mr rené van der linden! ladies and gentlemen, presidents and representatives of the european institutions! i am not going to go into detail about the reasons for this. the president's term of office is renewed every two and a half years, in line with the tradition of the european parliament since its first direct elections in june 1979. in historical terms, two and a half years is a short time. however, when we consider that a president of the european parliament has accompanied five presidencies of the european council - now germany, then portugal, slovenia, france and the czech republic - the responsibility of the european parliament becomes clear at a time when the work of european unification is well advanced but not yet complete, and is in danger because of the provisional failure of the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands. the european parliament is aware of this responsibility and must therefore allow no one to overtake it in completing the unity of our continent! (applause from the centre) we are all in the continuity of those who have gone before us and those who will follow. i would like to thank my predecessor, josep borrell fontelles, for his great commitment and tireless work as our president over the last two and a half years, on behalf of the whole european parliament, and in particular, but also personally, very warmly and sincerely! (applause from the centre) i would like to thank the previous presidents who are here today: emilio colombo, president of the parliament, which is not directly elected, and then, from 1979, simone veil, lord plumb, also known as henry plumb, our colleague enrique barón crespo, egon klepsch, our colleague klaus hänsch, josé-maría gil-robles, nicole fontaine and pat cox. (applause from the centre and the right) i welcome you all very warmly. we are very pleased that you have all accepted this invitation. pierre pflimlin and piet dankert are no longer with us. we remember them with gratitude. i have had the privilege of being a member of the european parliament since it was first elected in 1979, along with my colleagues klaus hänsch, ingo friedrich, karl von wogau, francis wurtz and jens-peter bonde. we have seen the ups and downs of european politics during this period. the greatest success is the overcoming of the division of europe. our shared values have prevailed. the accession of estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, malta and cyprus to the european union on 1 may 2004, bulgaria and romania on 1 january this year and the unification of germany on 3 october 1990 are, for me, the miracle of our generation. we have reason to rejoice in this today. (applause from the centre) but, ladies and gentlemen, it remains a task for all of us to learn from each other, to strengthen respect and understanding for each other. we should stop talking about 'old' and 'new' member states. we are all the european parliament and the peoples we represent are the community of the european union. (applause from the centre) in the 1980s, it was called 'eurosclerosis'. but then came the single market and the single european currency. we have fought for our rights as a european parliament and we will continue to do so. our parliament is influential and self-confident today. so experience teaches us that we can succeed for our continent if we want to, if our will remains strong and determined to achieve the unity of our continent while preserving its diversity. i would ask you all to do the same today. but we will only succeed if the citizens of the european union are aware of their european identity and what unites them, in addition to their attachment to their home and their homeland. the community's role in the world economy is to provide a framework for the development of the world economy. the european union is not only a matter of the mind, but also of the heart. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we must serve the citizens of the european union. europeans should be proud of what they have achieved over the centuries - in terms of values, freedom, law and democracy. it was a long trip. we know that our european roots are in greek philosophy, roman law, the judeo-christian heritage, the enlightenment, in other words our common european culture. but it also includes the tragic european civil wars and the inhuman ideologies of totalitarianism in the 20th century and then, after 1945, the courage of the founding fathers to take the path of forgiveness and reconciliation, to build a new, better, peaceful, common europe. we should remember that today and rediscover our common ground. the great frenchman jacques delors, in the tradition of robert schuman, spoke of the 'soul of europe'. the great polish european, wladyslaw bartoszewski, once said: 'europe means above all individual freedom, political and economic human rights'. they're both right. i would like to speak about european values. they are based on the dignity of the human person. in the dignity of the person we respect the other, we commit ourselves and thus build an order of responsibility and solidarity. in our practical political action we should always serve the dignity of the human person, and i would encourage us all to defend human dignity and human rights throughout the world. this is not an abstract demand. we are not the world's teachers, but our image of humanity and our values become more convincing to others if we live them in a credible way. this has very concrete implications for our policy: we want to partner with a russia that is capable of acting and democratic. we therefore expect the russian authorities to make a clear effort to bring the murderers of ana politkovskaya, who has done so much for the freedom of the press in her country, to justice. (applause from the centre) we will never forget that without the united states of america, neither national socialism nor soviet communism could have been defeated. but we also say to our american friends that guantanamo is incompatible with our european principles of a legal order. (applause from the centre) we protect human life. we must be firm in our opposition to those who deny the holocaust, the worst of all crimes, as the president of a great civilized nation does, so that a new holocaust does not come upon us as a horror. (applause from the centre) we are convinced: the people of israel and palestine are bound by the same dignity. we therefore support the right of israel to exist as much as we support the right of the palestinian people to live in a state of their own. (applause from the centre) we stand with those who are fighting peacefully for freedom and democracy. that is why we extend our solidarity to our sakharov prize winner, alexander milinkievich, and his fellow fighters for a free and democratic belarus free from fear and oppression. the same solidarity goes to our sakharov prize winners 'las damas de blanco' (the ladies in white) in cuba and aung san suu kyi in burma/myanmar. we defend human dignity and human rights. we in the european parliament are deeply convinced that the death penalty is incompatible with this. i call on all of us, the institutions of the european union and the member states, to work together in the united nations for the abolition of the death penalty. if we are to achieve our objectives, we must continue to build a european union that is capable of acting. we must put ourselves in a constitution which ensures that we can represent our values and interests in europe and the world as respected partners. i have in mind the great speech by louise weiss, who was the first directly elected president of the european parliament, and who gave it here in strasbourg on 17 july 1979. she said: "let us never forget that we are both heirs and executors: heirs of a spirit world and its executors for the benefit of future generations". i couldn't have said it better myself. we could hardly feel differently today than we did in 1979, and yet we are facing new challenges of our own. the idea of european unification has been developing successfully in the broad outlines since the signing of the treaties of rome fifty years ago. it has become the expression of one of the happiest periods in our long european history. first, the idea of europe after the second world war derived its strength from the will for peace and freedom. the increase in prosperity and social equality then became the mandate and the driving force behind european unification. europe has remained true to both of these ideas, while the reunification of our continent has given us the unique opportunity to bring together in freedom the halves of the continent that have been divided for far too long. today, europe's recognition and its drive are the result of our citizens' quest for security. this is a very serious matter, which we have been given the task of combating terrorism involuntarily but inevitably. we need solutions to the problems that are burning under the nails of our citizens. the pursuit of security also includes the task of creating jobs and social protection in a rapidly changing world. we cannot win security against globalization. we must shape it by strengthening our competitiveness while preserving our european social model. this means not just talking about the dramatic climate change, but together with our partners around the world taking the necessary action and enforcing it decisively before it is too late. security includes a common energy supply and a common immigration policy which respects human rights as well as the need to integrate into our society. we cannot allow people to die in the mediterranean again and again. we cannot find our security in a world that is on fire, in a world where people live in poverty and social oppression, where disorder reigns and where natural environmental conditions are further destroyed. if we want to live in security in europe, we must be partners in the security of the world in all its aspects. and we must know that without european solutions, most of the challenges facing our continent and our world are unable to be met. the unification of europe has always been strengthened by crises, even if this seems paradoxical at first. i'm not saying that we need crises because we're incapable of bringing good out of ourselves. the european union needs a new start, a renewal. the road is arduous, i suppose. but i believe this deeply: our continent is better equipped for its future in the world of the 21st century than it was 15 or 20 years ago. we ourselves will be judged by the extent to which we have put the re-establishment of european unity on a sound and secure course. we politicians are expected to be leaders. we must do better than has sometimes been done before to explain why europe is good for all of us, what added value european unity brings and what objectives our work serves. we must overcome the impression that european politics has only a technical function, without vision and without meaning. we must convince by our actions. we must focus on the essentials. it is our collective responsibility to prepare the future in a sustainable way that is safe for our children and grandchildren, in human terms. we need a new start for a better, stronger europe, one that is prepared for the future. but above all we need a europe that believes in itself, that draws its strength from its values and that wants and can be a good partner in the world. without the media, we cannot communicate europe to the people. i would like to thank the correspondents and journalists here in strasbourg for their fair and objective reporting. but i appeal to the national media, and in particular to the private and public television broadcasters, to make their contribution to european public relations. it is not timely to present european unification from a national perspective only. i would ask the national television stations to open their studios to european subjects and to invite members of the european parliament to speak to them. (applause from the centre) we need a new pact between european citizens and their political institutions in the european union. the 'europe of the people' and the credibility of the european institutions are mutually dependent. the better regulation work programme can help to achieve this by ensuring greater democratic control, transparency in the council, reliable transposition into national law, social, environmental, economic and administrative impact assessment and simplification of the legal texts themselves. we should always ask ourselves, when we consider european legislation: does it serve the people and the environment? is it necessary, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity? does it make us more competitive? does it reduce red tape and costs? only if these questions can be answered in the affirmative should we act as legislators in the european parliament. we should not be concerned as the european parliament with representing the interests of citizens only. we should also express our respect for the commitment of european citizens who, through their work, are increasing europe's standing in europe and the world. we should have a european parliament award for this. and why should we not also particularly appreciate the commitment of young people to the european idea? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. european history is almost always presented in national museums. i want to encourage a place of memory and of the future where the idea of the idea of europe can continue to grow. i would like to propose the construction of a 'house of european history'. it is not to be a dull, dry museum, but a place that will foster our collective memory of european history and the work of european unification, and at the same time be open to the further shaping of europe's identity by all present and future citizens of the european union. such a 'house of european history' should be established at the seat of the european institutions and linked to similar institutions in the member states. the 'declaration on the future of europe', to be adopted jointly by the european council, the european parliament and the european commission on 25 march 2007 in berlin, under your chairmanship, madam president of the council, madam chancellor angela merkel, could create the conditions for this. the european union is the largest association of peoples in the world consisting of 27 nations with nearly 500 million people. europe is a complicated continent and this poses enormous challenges for all of us. the european union can no longer be governed by the inadequate instruments of the present treaty. if our community of values is to survive, we must fundamentally reform it. the constitutional treaty strengthens both the european parliament and the national parliaments, it is an increase in parliamentarism and democracy. the community's role in the world of work is to provide a framework for the development of the european economy. the rules of procedure define the european competences. i am quite frank with you, ladies and gentlemen: i do not understand those who, on the one hand, criticise 'brussels' - and there is occasionally a justification for this, just as there is for criticising national policy - but at the same time reject the constitutional treaty, which is precisely the means to help reduce and correct the deficits identified. (applause from the centre) we must not let any doubt arise: the european parliament is the constitutional treaty. we want to help make the substance of the constitutional treaty, including the capital of value, a legal and political reality. the consensus reached here in the european parliament on the services directive and the limits of the european union's ability to enlarge is a constructive response to existing human concerns. the 'declaration on the future of europe' of 25 march 2007 in berlin can mark another important milestone along this path. at its core, it should be a commitment to our values and to the necessary reforms. the commitment to tackle the challenges of the future that i spoke of together; the european union is committed to the solidarity between our peoples and to the rule of law as the basis of our action. no people in the european union can be left alone with its fundamental problems. but this also excludes national egoism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre) we want to help the german presidency of the council to agree at the summit in brussels on 21 and 22 june on a roadmap and a mandate, the end of which will be the full implementation of the substance of the european constitution by the next european parliament elections in june 2009. i would remind you that the constitutional treaty has been signed by all 27 governments and has already been adopted by 18 countries. of course we must respect the referenda. but regardless, when a change of government in one country calls into question what has been agreed in the european union, not only do national societies split, but our already complicated continent becomes increasingly unable to act. we must adhere to our european legal principles: pacta sunt servanda treaties must be respected. we must be strong and determined to bring about these necessary reforms. we must pursue these reforms in such a way that the peoples of the european union are not divided but brought together. we insist that the european parliament be adequately involved in the work. we as the european parliament must also be prepared to reform ourselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there is still a lot to be done here, as we all know. i wish the european parliament were always as well staffed as it was this morning, although this is still subject to increase. i shall therefore be submitting to the president of the group of the european people's party, the day after tomorrow, a proposal for a comprehensive reform of the european parliament's work. the conference of presidents, that is to say the group chairmen - and these are important people - has set up a working party to improve our work. i see that there is a smile on the faces of the group leaders they are delighted with this confirmation. i would ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the commission is prepared to take action in this area. we have an efficient administration and i would like to thank secretary-general julian priestley, who will be leaving office on 1 march after ten years, for his great commitment. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. there is certainly occasionally, perhaps more often, an opportunity to criticize the administration. we're also open to criticism. but when you work closely with julian priestley and his staff, you see the high level of responsibility, the commitment that they have, and i've never seen anyone act against the president's intentions. of course, i want that for the rest of my term. i'll keep in close contact so we're heading in the same direction. thank you very much, julian priestley. the only measure of good administration is service to our european convictions independent of party politics, fair and objective. the future of europe depends to a large extent on how we manage to achieve the coexistence of cultures and religions in the european union and with our neighbours, especially in the arab and islamic worlds. we must therefore work to ensure that dialogue between cultures and religions becomes the hallmark of europe. we live on a continent of three great cultures and religions, the christian, the jewish and the islamic. and we have fellow citizens who come from one of the other great cultures of the world and have their homes in the other religions of the earth. we as the european parliament must encourage and support examples of european civil society committed to dialogue between cultures. in seville, i became aware of the work of the tres culturas organisation, and i say this not only in reference to my spanish predecessor, josep borrell, but also to all the examples of european coexistence of christians, muslims and jews, and of course also to all those who do not belong to these religions. this is the crucial investment in our spiritual development. it is also the best way of promoting dialogue between cultures across the mediterranean to the middle east and north africa. we do not want a clash of civilizations, but we want peace in freedom and justice between all peoples and faiths. we want to build a bridge of thought and culture across the mediterranean. this dialogue must be based on tolerance and truth. tolerance is not arbitrariness. tolerance means respecting the beliefs of others while maintaining one's own beliefs, and thus living together without violence. on one of my many visits to arab countries, i was once asked by a high-ranking muslim official how muslims live in europe. my answer was that they are often not sufficiently integrated, but they can live their own faith and have their own houses of worship and mosques. my counter question was whether it was true that in his country a muslim could be punished by death if he or she wanted to convert to christianity. the answer i wasn't given was the answer. i am not going to go into detail. i am firmly convinced that dialogue between cultures can only succeed if it is based on truth and mutual tolerance. (applause from the centre) i have made it my intention to visit the arab neighbours of the european union and, in my visits to the countries of the european union, to seek dialogue with ethnic minorities, especially young people. the euro-mediterranean assembly is an important parliamentary institution for dialogue with the middle east, including israel and the arab world. we must use this institution effectively for peace, partnership and, if possible, friendship. last weekend the four presidents of the euro-mediterranean assembly - the presidents of the egyptian parliament, the tunisian parliament, the president of the greek parliament and myself - met in tunis and we agreed that the dialogue of cultures and the problem of unemployment in the mediterranean countries should be the subject of the next dialogue in march and that in june we would like to deal in particular with the middle east and the peace process which is, i hope, under way. as soon as circumstances permit, i will visit israel, palestine and lebanon. i am grateful for the invitation to speak before the israeli parliament, the knesset. we should give greater emphasis to the dialogue of cultures in our invitations to speak before the european parliament. i am not going to go into detail. the strengthening of european democracy and european parliamentarism is our common task. we therefore want to cooperate with the national parliaments in a partnership and in a constructive way, for the benefit of our peoples and the european union as a whole. helmut kohl, an honorary citizen of europe, once said: 'we don't have much time. the world we live in is not ready to wait until we have solved our inner problems. he's right, you know. i would add that inaction, indifference, would be the greatest guilt we could possibly bear. at the end of my term of office, a new european parliament will be elected. if our work is convincing and if europe is also well spoken of in national capitals, the turnout in the european parliament elections will increase again. this is what we should be striving for. our work is often sober, exhausting and not spectacular. but our goals are high, and so are the expectations of us. to satisfy you is our claim. i would like to represent you all in this task in a way that strengthens the dignity of the european parliament, the unity of our european continent and the effectiveness of the european union. i ask for your cooperation, i thank you for your trust, and i hope that together we can achieve our goals. (applause from the centre and the right)
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, you are one of the first members of the european parliament and have, as you have just said, experience since 1979. you have witnessed and helped to shape the remarkable rise of a parliament that began in its infancy and has now become a very emancipated european parliament with confident meps, clear party structures and factional structures, and thus a challenging but indispensable partner in the european discourse. the evolution of the parliament is part of the european union's success story, and we know today that without the work of the european parliament, much of what we have created for the citizens of europe would have taken a different form. i would like to recall the recent work on the reach regulation on chemicals, the drafting of the services directive and the discussions on the financial perspective, in which you have repeatedly tried to set priorities in the future and have achieved this, sometimes in tough negotiations with the council and the commission. in your speech today you laid the foundations for the next european parliament elections, for the year 2009, with five council presidencies, one of which is the german one, which will be followed by four more. we will be standing together - as representatives of the nation states and you as representatives of the european parliament - before the citizens of europe - then almost 500 million people - and we will have to report on what we are thinking about, what this europe is good for and what it is important for the people. it is about peace, it is about solidarity within this european union, and it is about prosperity and social security in a global world where competition has become much tougher for all of us. that is why we must not lose sight of the whole in all the concrete work of parliament. you have made clear today in your work programme what role you envisage for the european parliament, but also for the european union in the world. we agree that the question of the constitutional treaty will be a decisive issue in the 2009 elections, firstly in terms of our sense of self, our closeness to the citizens, and secondly also in terms of the ability of a european union of 27 member states to act. the german presidency will therefore do all it can to work with the commission, parliament and the member states to find a roadmap for how we can complete this project so that people in 2009 will know which europe they have to vote for and how this europe can act. (applause from the centre) i would like to see the debate - even if it is still controversial in some respects - continued on how to structure the relationship between the commission, parliament and the council in a clearer way. i therefore brought up the issue of the principle of discontinuity in my opening speech here because i believe that this issue will be important in the longer term. what is the self-image of a newly elected parliament? what is the self-image of a newly elected commission? what do you have to do? these questions have not been finally settled by the constitutional treaty either, and so i think the debate must continue. (applause from the centre) turning to the problems of substance, the subject of energy will of course play a very important role in the council meeting on 8 and 9 march 2007. i would like to tell you today about our efforts to shape this council. i would like to begin by thanking the commission very warmly. it has put on our agenda ambitious packages of directives and statements on energy and climate change. we now have to create the crucial conditions for a substantive debate in the council in the run-up to the spring council in the forthcoming councils on competition and the environment. i share the commission's objective of reducing co2 emissions by 30% by 2020, provided we find international partners. i think we are all encouraged to point out when we travel internationally that europe is responsible for 15% of co2 emissions, but 85% are caused outside the european union. europe must lead the way - we should commit ourselves to this - but europe must also make it clear that there is no problem that makes it more visible that this world is connected and that the action of one continent is not enough to eliminate the threat to all of humanity. (applause from the centre) we shall have very difficult discussions on the design of a competitive internal market, which is already being suggested, but this is not surprising to those who know the subject. we will face these discussions, because a functioning internal market within the energy market is essential. we will put energy efficiency on the agenda, we will talk about renewable energy, and the german presidency of the council is pleading for the adoption of real figures and reduction approaches that are not left untouched. no member state can avoid this, and i say this very explicitly. that is why the federal republic of germany - if i may say so as federal chancellor - has had to make compromises with the commission, which we have not found easy. we have done this very consciously because i believe that each member state must make its contribution. to think that climate change is working because no one is noticing it, that would be a mistake, and that's why we have to end that mistake. (applause from the centre) the issue of energy will be a matter of concern to us, particularly in the negotiations on a cooperation agreement with russia. i have to say it again today: we hope and we are working to get these negotiations started. it is not yet ready, but i am very hopeful that we will have made good progress here by the time of the eu-russia summit in may. and we will put the issue of better regulation on the agenda of the european council, and here again i ask for parliament's support so that we do not stand still in the uncommitted but commit ourselves to quantitative reduction targets. i know the worry and the fear that less regulation can mean less protection. we don't want that. but the way we organise some of our bureaucracy today can be improved and needs to be improved from the point of view of the citizens of europe. this does not mean that a regulation is not effective unless you develop the most complicated form for its verifiability! (applause from the centre) mr president, our consultations on the declaration for the europe of the future on 24 and 25 march are proceeding well. we'll keep it that way. in your remarks you made very clear what is expected of the european union in terms of its foreign policy, security and defence policy. i fully share your commitment to human rights, which has a great tradition in the european parliament, and i welcome your wish to make the dialogue of cultures one of your priorities. i have been able to feel, during my trip to the middle east in recent days, the expectations that are placed on the european union and all its institutions. the desire for peace and the concern about iran's nuclear programme are felt and almost tangible in the middle east. we have a great responsibility here to do everything possible - together, of course, with the actors in the region, with the united states of america and with russia - to bring about a peace process which the people are so anxiously awaiting. i have said it elsewhere and i will repeat it here: we europeans have achieved something quite unexpected in our lives with the end of the cold war. almost all european countries can now work and fight together again in a democratic process - often difficult, yes, but joint and democratic - for peace and freedom as 27 member states. what has been the miracle of our time should also encourage us to advocate for miracles and opportunities in other parts of the world. what palestinians and israelis have not experienced for decades - living in peace, living in two states side by side, not fighting, living with a prospect of prosperity - that must be our goal too, because we have simply experienced that peace and friendship can emerge across seemingly insurmountable chasms. with this experience, we europeans have an obligation to contribute to this process. i am therefore very grateful to you for making this one of your priorities, along with that of all my colleagues in the european parliament. mr president, you quoted helmut kohl and said that we must act quickly, that we must not be preoccupied with ourselves all the time, but that the people of the european union expect us to continue to shape this continent, which has been so successful, even in times of globalisation, for the benefit of its citizens, and that millions and billions of people in the world expect the european union to contribute with its experience and its wealth to making the world more peaceful and free. let's work together on this. thank you for your speech and for your cooperation with the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
i would also like to thank you, chancellor angela merkel, for your encouraging speech. we will do everything we can to make the european council, the commission and parliament successful for our continent, for the european union.
president of the commission. mr president, chancellor merkel, former presidents of the european parliament, presidents of the european institutions, honourable members, this year we celebrate what the european union has achieved over the last 50 years: a history which has seen the european parliament increasingly come to embody european democracy. i salute the presence here today of the former presidents of the european parliament. on my own behalf and on behalf of the commission, i thank you all for your individual contributions to europe. i want to congratulate you, mr president, for this initiative. it is indeed important. some politicians believe the world did not exist before they were born. i think that it is important that we who are serving our citizens through institutions keep this institutional memory. a decent and civilised society pays homage to its history and respects the institutions. i want to thank you for your speech, which had both vision and substance. i share the views and commend the commitment. honourable members, you have elected a president whose experience and commitment to our common european project is second to none. our european values underline the essence of the europe we want and treasure: a europe of peace, freedom, democracy, prosperity and justice. the enlargement and integration of europe to include 27 countries, free of war and free of totalitarianism, underlines the strength of these values and the lessons we have drawn from history: only through a shared undertaking are we able to provide the answers to our citizens in the global world of the 21st century. cultural and religious pluralism is a strong european value. in this sense, i particularly welcome the emphasis by president poettering on intercultural and religious dialogue. the european union is well placed to promote this dialogue. we are steeped in diversity: diversity of traditions, of cultures, of language, of nations. it is one of our precious gifts as europeans. we are to some extent a success in globalisation. we, better than anyone, can shape this globalised world. dialogue is the way to ensure that diversity, far from causing division, enriches our unity. i strongly believe that cultural diversity is a source of europe’s strength and of its ability to promote its values and interests in the world. this dialogue has to be nurtured properly. we intend to make next year’s year of intercultural dialogue the platform for this dialogue. the commission has long pursued a dialogue with religions, churches and communities of conviction, including those who do not have a religion. i would like to take this forward in partnership with the european parliament, as a visible demonstration of how european institutions, working together, take european integration forward. to signal the importance of this dimension, last year i invited the president of the european council to participate in a meeting with religious and church leaders. i welcome the agreement to hold a summit in may this year, with the three presidents of the european political institutions and leaders of the main religions and churches, which i will be honoured to host. on 25 march, we have the opportunity to celebrate both our achievements and our values. i am delighted that the european parliament and the european commission are playing a full part in the preparations for the declaration on the future of europe, following my proposal last may. this declaration, to be signed in berlin, represents a real common point of reference – a confirmation of what the european union is for and a mission statement for what we want to achieve in the 21st century. last month, in this house, i made proposals i would like to see in the berlin declaration. i did not do it for the sake of making proposals. they correspond to results that european citizens want us to achieve. and i believe that it is by focusing on the goals of our common project that we will be able to reach a strong and enlarged consensus, including a consensus for an institutional settlement. i am convinced that if europeans see the european union addressing globalisation, promoting economic growth and jobs, showing social solidarity, tackling climate change, increasing democratic legitimacy, bringing security to its citizens, defending our values and interests worldwide, then they will trust the european union to reform itself to meet tomorrow’s challenges and to deliver practical results. we are all here to serve european citizens. if we are to enjoy public consent, we need to target our activities on citizens’ priorities and we need to work in a way that justifies their confidence, particularly respecting the principles of subsidiarity and transparency. we set out exactly this approach in our citizens’ agenda communication of last may. in order to achieve results, we need to preserve and develop institutional partnership; a partnership founded on the separation of competences, but also on the idea of institutional interdependence. while respecting the autonomy of each institution, we need to stress the commonality of our european principles. despite some natural political and ideological differences, those who are committed to these principles should build a truly european partnership. i believe that cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission is working well. it has proved itself against some stern tests. over the past year we have seen difficult dossiers resolved on services, chemicals, reach and the financial perspectives, to name but a few. this was a result of the three institutions working together with this spirit of partnership. i am committed to working closely with you, mr president, as well as with chancellor merkel and her successors at the helm of the council. i am convinced this is the best way to deliver the results our citizens demand. the resolution of the debate on the future of europe is not a sideshow: a more efficient and democratic european union goes to the heart of our ability to deliver policies and results. we all know this is what the constitutional treaty would have achieved, and there are limits to what we can achieve without it. as i often say, we cannot build tomorrow’s europe with yesterday’s tools. the nice treaty is not enough. (applause) i know that the european parliament shares the commitment of the european commission to give full support to the work of the german presidency to find the right way forward. the energy and commitment of chancellor merkel gives us real hope that we can find a consensus and make a compelling case for reform and progress to european citizens. but the presidency of the council can only achieve results if it is supported by all the member states. today, where all the european institutions are here reunited, i wish to repeat my call on member states to find a solution as regards the constitutional treaty. i know, after the ‘no’ votes in two member states, that it is difficult, if not impossible, to ratify exactly the same text. but let us not forget that all the governments signed the treaty. this has at least a double implication. first, member states recognised that the union needed to solve common problems and common challenges. and we have not solved them yet. second, the act of signing a treaty also implies a responsibility towards the other member states, towards european institutions and towards european citizens. it is the duty of all european governments to be constructive and active in the search to find a common solution. and i would like to stress the word ‘common’. at a historical moment like this, when we celebrate the peaceful unity of europe, we do not have the right to divide it again. regarding their positions about europe, sometimes some politicians remind me of james mill, the father of john stuart mill. john stuart mill once said that his father loved mankind in general, but hated each person in particular. (laughter)we also see many politicians in europe that profess their love for europe in general, but then resist european solutions to energy, climate change, immigration and, of course, the institutional settlement. let us be frank: we do not need declarations of intent; what we need is commitment. (applause)and we face decisive tests in the near future, starting with the energy and climate change package in the european council in march. i very much welcome the statement chancellor merkel made just now. let us be honest with ourselves. coherence is a requisite for credibility. we are not credible when we say that we want to speak with one voice to the outside world on energy and we keep speaking among ourselves with 27 voices and 27 markets. we are not credible when we set the fight against climate change as one of the most important priorities for europe and afterwards we are not able to agree on specific goals for our policies. so, we need to be coherent and credible. mr president, madam chancellor, honourable members, i have high hopes for the period between now and the end of this parliamentary term. i believe we have established the right priorities, and the right foundation of partnership to make them work. i look forward to working closely with president poettering and with this parliament, and with colleagues in the european council, to deliver real reform in europe and real change for europe’s citizens to the end of this decade. i believe we can build a europe that will be able to shape the future of our world around the values of freedom and justice that are so important for us. (applause)
president barroso, i should like to thank you for your statement and especially for your commitment to partnership with the european parliament, which is most welcome. i should like to thank you on my own behalf as well. we look forward to the continuation of our good cooperation.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. to avoid the impression that we are at an epp congress, a social democrat will now speak. it's a difficult exercise i have to undergo. you know my view that the speech of the president of this house must be a speech that does justice to everyone in this house - at least approximately - and that it should not be subjected to a controversial political debate. for such a speech is not made by the one who gathers all, but by the one who takes a single viewpoint suitable for controversy. i would like to acknowledge and emphasize that you have made a speech, mr president, which can be followed by the whole of the european parliament. in your speech you described the main tasks that lie ahead of us, and your term of office falls at a crucial stage in european politics. the reforms either succeed or fail, and that is how we have to look at it. but if the reforms fail, if there is no constitution, if we are thrown back on the incomplete treaty of nice, then more than one treaty will fail, as you said very well in your speech: then an idea fails. in your speech you also described the idea of europe. that we find solutions in intercultural cooperation, that religious intolerance is overcome by interreligious dialogue, that economic and social integration is the basis for peace and peaceful coexistence, that the surrender of territorial claims can be achieved through territorial integration. and when we confront this idea with the challenges, it's clear what the challenges are: ethnic and racial hatred that we find all over the world, religious intolerance that we find all over our borders, and unfortunately even territorial claims to power again. if we want to have peace in the world, if we want to create peace in europe, both internally and externally, we need more than ever the idea of europe, the counter-concept to war-mongering elements such as hatred, intolerance, exclusion and oppression. integration, social and cultural, interfaith, transethnic solutions, our concept, that's the counter-design, and you've described it well. my group can only give its full support to this. but at the same time, we are challenged -- and you said that right -- by dealing with the conflicts of everyday life. the people want more than ceremonial meetings. i congratulate you on a solemn meeting today, which we have all been working towards for a long time, and i must admit that, despite all the scepticism, it has been a success. but we're not in a solemn session every day. the citizens want us to solve their everyday conflicts. once the solemn words are uttered, the day-to-day quickly catches up with us. people want three things from us: one, that we describe what a thing is; secondly, we must propose solutions and thirdly, we must decide and act together, if possible, but if that is not possible, then by majority vote, as is the practice in a democracy. that too must be, and in the council too. before you tell us again about discontinuity, madam chancellor, i am in favour of discussing it, but the biggest machine for discontinuity in europe is the council of which you are president. that's the problem. (applause from the centre) we are also faced, of course, with our own difficulties, which we all have to face - we in parliament, you in the council and the commission. madam president, you gave a wonderful interview to cicero magazine on 1 january this year. i read it with great attention. it says a great line from you: 'my goal is also to make progress towards more climate protection in 2007. [...] against this background, i will give special importance to environmental issues in the international context. that's good! you said that today. i am quoting from another place. i think that is what you said in the german bundestag. you are determined to prevent the introduction of a single limit on co2 emissions from new cars from 2012. so, here we are, back to the bitter routine. (interruption by daniel cohn-bendit: 'discontinuity!') the commission has not yet decided on the matter. that's also discontinuity, right. we have to... (interruption by markus ferber) the commission has already made a number of proposals. the formal sitting could become a controversial debate. but mr. ferber's csu is so preoccupied with himself that we're going to give him permission to make the call. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not only hold solemn meetings with declaratory high-flying; we also have to deliver results in everyday life. that is what we are asking for. i have heard in every speech today that social europe is the core, the basis of the cohesion of our society. when i said that two and a half years ago in my first speech as chairman of my group, i was laughed at by some in this house. the fact that we have achieved such a breakthrough in two and a half years and that we are now all in agreement gives me hope that at the end of your two and a half year term - as you have announced - we will be even further along. i would like to make two brief comments at the end: i do not share your view, mr president, that the united states of america has overcome communism or helped to overcome communism in eastern europe. it wasn't the united states of america. these were the brave men and women of poland. it was the hungarians. it was the balts who overcame communism, not the united states of america. more than ever, this must be said in this parliament with gratitude to the colleagues from these countries who represent the new democracies. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. you gave a speech which i believe is one of the best that has been given here in many years. i would like to say to you that i trust you to do the same. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left to its own devices. if you can help to bring together the very opposite views of the heads of state and government, if you can do it in the same way that you, as the chairman of the epp-ed group, have held together the conflicting interests of that group, then i am confident that you will make a good presidency. (applause from the centre)
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'm not in a position to judge your speech, but i do want to say that, in exchange for not wanting to speak at all, you spoke with great commitment. thank you very much.
thank you, mr watson. when you spoke about the vast numbers of amendments i saw smiles on the faces of many of the former presidents! i think this is a problem which the former presidents also faced. the worst, however, was when it started in 1979 – as president simone veil will remember – when in some cases we had more than a thousand amendments, but we did not have the electronic machinery in place to deal with them.
thank you mr crowley. you spoke for longer than the time allotted to you. i would not say that you got more time because you said many nice things, but subsequent speakers will have to stick to the time allotted to them even if they do not always share your position.
i would like to thank mrs monica frassoni. we have always been in agreement on human rights. the question of the seats was raised, so i have very well thought about it, whether i should be able to take the decision.
thank you very much, francis wurtz, and thank you for the respect we've always shown each other.
ladies and gentlemen, those who are not so familiar with the details - especially our guests in the gallery - may not know that the elections in denmark are held on thursdays, not sundays. mr bonde always concludes from this that he has been a member of parliament for a longer period, which is of course legally incorrect, because we were elected to parliament together, namely on 17 july 1979. but since he always emphasizes it, i still have hope, because he cannot be so devoid of affection for the european union and for this parliament, if he is so happy to be in parliament longer than the others, as he understands it.
i should like to thank mrs belohorská very much for her very kind personal remarks. damit ist der teil der sitzung mit der antrittsansprache des präsidenten geschlossen. schriftliche erklärungen (artikel 142)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i ask to speak because i must draw attention to the alarming state of negotiations between the council and the commission. you are facing one of the last opportunities for the barroso commission to make progress towards a full declaration of assurance, the positive das. we have taken the liberty of taking the commission's own proposals and putting them into this report. the commission now wants to reject without proposing otherwise. anyone who today passively prevents simplification, improved recovery of unduly paid funds and more efficient controls will be giving the commission a bad management record in april 2009. in the discharge procedure, two months before the european elections, we are faced with a particularly flawed first budget for 2007 of the new financial perspective. the commission and the council are now playing the role of brake and hindrance, and will be a strong theme for 2009 for the opponents of europe if our proposals are not accepted. the council, under the german presidency, is unfortunately on a collision course. instead of ensuring that the publication of aid and beneficiaries, which has already been decided upon, is drawn up in a common format, the council surprisingly and without any clear reason simply says 'no', also on aid for research and development, that is to say, on the whole field of direct and international joint administration. the council is thus sowing discord in europe, because without unification everyone can do and not do what he wants. the loss of confidence in the european taxpayer is a loss for all of us. the council is depriving this commission of its most visible success in the budgetary field, namely transparency. without the design, it's worthless. i would urge the commission and the council presidency to take up their responsibilities in this legislative text. i would like to see a simplification and a reduction in red tape. the proposals are on the table. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your approval. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council of 8 and 9 march.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as in previous years, this spring summit of heads of state or government will focus on economic issues, particularly the lisbon strategy. we are naturally pleased that this year's spring summit is taking place against a backdrop of positive economic fundamentals and encouraging developments in labour markets. we conclude cautiously that the lisbon strategy is bearing its first fruits, but we are nevertheless convinced that it would be completely inappropriate to put our hands in the air now. on the contrary, we want to take advantage of the positive overall trend and the optimism that is building up for further structural reforms. we want to make further joint efforts to safeguard and build on the successes of recent times in a sustainable way, because it is important to make europe in the best possible shape for global competition. after intensive preparatory work, which has also been characterized by very close and extremely fruitful cooperation with the commission, we have now entered the hot phase of preparation for the european council meeting on 8 and 9 march. the general affairs and external relations council yesterday discussed the annotated agenda for the european council prepared by the presidency. i am pleased to inform you that the member states are fully supporting the thematic line proposed by the presidency. in the coming weeks, the permanent representatives committee will coordinate the various contributions of the various sectoral council configurations and develop the draft conclusions of the european council in the light of these key points. i would like to remind you of the dates on which the various committees adopt their opinions: the energy council will meet the day after tomorrow to consider one of the most important issues for the european council, namely the energy action plan; the education and youth council will take place on 16 february, followed by the competitiveness council on 19 february and the environment council on 20 february. the council responsible for employment and social affairs and the ecofin council, which takes decisions on these matters, will meet on 22 and 27 february respectively. although the european parliament is not directly involved in this preparatory work, i can assure you that the presidency will take account of the opinions adopted by parliament on the topics of the summit. let me now go into some detail about the presidency's plans for this spring's summit. i can also refer to what the president-in-office of the council said here this morning. we will ensure that the european council fulfils its original role of focusing on key issues, setting the course, taking forward-looking decisions and providing policy guidance to the relevant bodies at european and national level. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. in line with these general considerations, we have endeavoured to focus the european council's deliberations on issues where there is a generally recognised need for action and where further efforts are needed. in particular, it aims to support structural reforms initiated in the member states and to promote them through integrated country-specific recommendations. in the field of the internal market, we want to strengthen the common will to close gaps and identify weaknesses, to strengthen the union's competitiveness vis-à-vis third countries, but also to provide impetus for a revival of the doha round. strengthening innovation, research and education is as much at our heart as promoting employment and developing the european social model. the main themes are flexicurity and demographic change. better legislation - the chancellor also said this this morning - is an important concern for all of us. this has considerable potential to increase the competitiveness of the european economy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. we have set out to send out ambitious signals at the european council. in concrete terms, the main focus is on simplifying existing legislation and considering further improvements to the impact assessment tool. as legislators, the council and parliament have a particular responsibility to ensure that the commission's proposals for simplifying legislation are simultaneously thoroughly examined and dealt with swiftly. our main concern is to promote the reduction of bureaucratic costs, especially by setting clear quantitative targets. finally, as decided last year, the european council will adopt the comprehensive eu energy action plan, which commits to the three fundamental objectives of the union in this area, namely security of supply, competitiveness and to reiterate environmental sustainability. the strategic energy report presented by the commission in january shows that only an energy policy that takes account of all three pillars of this triangle will meet the challenges facing the union. we therefore actively advocate a package of measures which, when combined, will have the desired effect. this package includes measures to strengthen competition in the internal energy market, to give greater prominence to renewable energy sources and to develop better energy technologies and energy efficiency. the strengthening of the external component of energy policy is of the utmost importance in this respect. i would like to emphasize that europe must speak with one voice more strongly on energy issues. climate protection is inseparably linked to the energy issue. in the face of the century-old challenge of climate change, we are determined to take ambitious and forward-looking decisions, including quantified targets, in this area as well. the commission's proposals, which are fully consistent with those on energy, provide a good basis for this. the european council must work to send a strong signal on the further development of the international climate regime after 2012. only if the developed countries, led by the european union, come forward with ambitious commitments and measures will it be possible to expect the emerging countries to be willing to make adequate commitments of their own to limit their rapidly growing emissions.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the work of the council. we should take this as an example for the future in the reform of our parliamentary work. the council can also limit itself and still say something good.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, march offers a real opportunity for the european union. firstly, it gives us a chance to show citizens a european union taking ambitious, clear decisions on subjects that they care deeply about. secondly, we will be called upon to agree a declaration that will not only celebrate our achievements over these 50 years, but set out what we can do in the future. so, the two are closely linked. a successful spring council would provide the perfect springboard for an ambitious berlin declaration. europe has to take action. it has to be political, effective and play a key role when it comes to addressing the major challenges of today’s globalised world. growth and jobs, climate change, energy: these are subjects on the minds of europeans every day. we have a real opportunity to show what the european union can offer, of course, in full compliance with our renewed commitment to better regulation. i should like to focus on climate change, energy and the growth and jobs agenda. two weeks ago the un panel on climate change set out clearly, calmly and irrefutably the facts on climate change. the goal of limiting temperature gains to 2°c is still achievable – just! the next decade or so will determine whether we manage to bring the situation under control. our international partners, investors and citizens are all looking to the european union for clear, determined action. the scale of the problem is huge. a bold response is the only one that makes sense and that means practical policy proposals and binding targets. that is why we proposed that developed countries accept a 30% emission reduction target by 2020 compared to 1990 levels. at the same time, nobody questions the need to bring developing countries into the global efforts to cut emissions, and they can realistically be put on track to limit the growth in their emissions, to start with, and to start cutting by 2020. i expect the spring european council to send a convincing and strong signal on the need for determined action on climate change. the resolution on climate change, which this house will adopt tomorrow and which is both encouraging and stunning, contains an important and urgent message, which the commission will pass on to the heads of state and government when climate issues are being discussed at the spring council. however, we must also show both inside and outside the eu that we are prepared to act ourselves today. that is why the spring council should agree a firm, independent eu commitment to achieving at least a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. this will be a real demonstration of our commitment. energy is key to cutting emissions. however, it is more than that: secure supply, fairer prices and more choice are all issues that are central to citizens’ daily concerns for themselves, their families and future generations and, of course, to european industry. there is also an instinctive sense that these issues can only be tackled effectively at european level. therefore, this is also a stern test for the european union itself. last month, the commission set out its vision of how to put european energy policy on track and i very much welcome the supportive stance of this parliament. whenever we face a long-term challenge, it is essential that europeans can look to their democratically-elected representatives to explain why reform is essential, to put short-term change in the context of long-term purpose, to convince us that every one of us can play a part, for example through doing what we can on energy efficiency. the comprehensive resolution that you adopted on 14 december last year reflects the essential role that parliament plays in this context. so the ambition and conviction of the european council are critical. we cannot put off decisions any longer. europe needs to send the clearest of messages that it is committed to transforming the shape of european energy over the next few decades. investors are ready to step in on a massive scale, but they need a clearer signal. that means decisive action in the internal market. it means real steps to ensure solidarity between member states. it means making research in this area our top priority, for example as the first target for the european institute of technology. it means a precise, ambitious and, in particular, binding target of bringing renewable energy into the mainstream by 2020. with a clear green light from the european council, the commission is ready to bring forward a wide range of precise legislative measures this year. climate change and energy are integral parts of the broader issue on which the spring council will focus, the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. real steps are being taken to invest more in innovation, to make life easier for new and growing businesses, to help citizens prepare for change. the economic situation, as you know, is improving and europe has shown that it is facing up to the challenge of globalisation, but these first steps now need to accelerate. the consensus for change needs to be translated into action in all parts of europe and in all sectors. modernising our economies and societies is essential if our values and quality of life are to flourish in this rapidly changing world. the spring council needs to give a clear message that we will press ahead with reform at all levels as set out in the commission’s annual progress report on the lisbon strategy, including the country-specific recommendations. the commission strongly welcomes parliament’s support on this point. your resolution gives a timely reminder of some of the key benchmarks by which the credibility of action will be assessed. for example, reducing start-up time for new businesses to no more than one week, or cheaper protection of intellectual property rights. time is running out if we are to avoid the worst effects of climate change, tackle the global imbalance between energy supply and demand, and secure real modernisation. it is time to put our best wisdom at the service of these objectives. george bernard shaw said that we grow wise not by remembering the past, but by being responsible for the future. at a time when we are celebrating 50 years of the european union, this is a wise thing to remember. bold, ambitious and long-term decisions from the spring council in march will put the european union on the road to finding real answers to these most urgent questions.
thank you very much, vice-president wallström, especially because you did not use all the time allocated to you. this is a very good example from the presidency and from the commission.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the council and the commission! i would first like to congratulate the commission on remaining firm in the dispute over the national allocation plans, i.e. co2 trading, and at least germany, contrary to all the announcements, has corrected its national allocation plan. i am sorry that the deal on the co2 reduction targets for cars has apparently not gone as the commission had intended, as part of a larger deal. i would like to point out that in the co2 deals that are now being negotiated between the member states, the commission and the council, one thing is being ignored: the targets we have set for ourselves are not man-made, but the goal of stopping global warming at 2 degrees is a natural one. if we keep ignoring this objective, which was agreed in kyoto, in these agreements between various national interests and industrial interests, then i think we will not be able to claim for some time to come that we are pursuing an ambitious climate policy. for us greens, the energy package and the 20% co2 reduction target for europe may sound ambitious, but they no longer correspond to the global objective of doing something about global warming. if we really stick to that 20%, we can say goodbye to the idea of being able to influence global warming in a positive way, in other words, to reduce it. we heard the other day that if you stay at 20%, global warming would be 4 or 5 degrees, which means that the negative climate forecasts would be much worse. i can only appeal once more, before the energy summit in brussels, to stop these deals on the percentage reduction figures and finally implement at least what the commission has put on the table. in my view, the most important part of this energy package is energy efficiency and saving, and i would ask the commission to go back to what was presented in the energy action plan last autumn - that is not so long ago - here. there must be less discontinuity here. at that time, it was assumed that reducing energy consumption was the right goal for europe. today, the idea that europe too will continue to consume ever more energy is embedded in the energy package. so there's a lot to correct. i would like to say a few words about nuclear policy, because i know that in many countries great hopes are being placed in this area. i think it is too late for a europe-wide check to be made as to whether the scandalous safety culture which we are now hearing repeatedly from the forsmark nuclear power station in sweden is a swedish problem or whether, over the decades of nuclear energy use, this deterioration of the safety culture, for example through staff reductions, is not a problem everywhere? i protest for the third time that the forsmark issue has not been a european issue. i say this again very specifically because i hear that a new euratom loan is to be granted for the construction of a nuclear power station in belene. this would be the first time that european money has been used to finance a power plant in the european union by the export of nuclear straw. we can pretend that there is a renaissance of nuclear energy. but i do believe that the industry is in a very bad state in europe, both economically and in terms of safety.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i can only agree to this on two conditions: the first is that the berlin declaration would need to be discussed very intensively at the spring summit. instead, the sparrows are whistling from the rooftops that a detailed debate on the possible contents of the declaration risks creating a divergent opinion. so no public debate, no debate between heads of state? i wonder who is working on such an important declaration as the berlin declaration, which is supposed to guide the future of the eu. the european council also called for the adoption of a new strategy for the fight against poverty, unemployment and social exclusion, and for the adoption of a new strategy for combating poverty and social exclusion. what does this mean in particular for an employment-intensive and sustainable energy and transport transition? and what would have to happen to finally introduce a truly sustainable solution to employment, social, environmental and global problems? but these questions are not being asked. it is about better regulation, about energy and climate change, but not in the sense of starting a long overdue social-ecological transformation that will really tackle the social divide and the climate catastrophe that everyone is talking about now. we have seen how difficult it is for the german presidency to deal with this, just a few days ago. mrs harms has also raised this point. the fact that better regulation means above all more market opening was made clear last week by mr barroso, as was the commission's communication on the implementation of the renewed strategy for growth and jobs. the aim is to open up the market to the benefit of businesses and consumers. more open markets mean more competition, and therefore always benefit the stronger, and cause the weaker to be the losers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i must point out, however, that it is always a question of who wants what and at what time. on 1 february, at the conference of the european defence agency, which was set up in anticipation of the entry into force of a european constitution, mr solana called for planning and a targeted demand policy for the defence industry. in my view, this is in no way compatible with the objectives of a summit which should ask what can be done to create sustainable jobs, to combat climate change in a sustainable way and to create equally high quality working and living conditions for all citizens in the eu in a sustainable way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. let me first summarize briefly what we have achieved. i recall that the commission launched a new initiative about two and a half years ago and after the kok report said: 'we must put the lisbon strategy back on its feet'. we want this strategy, which in the first half of the decade was basically a political objective with no chance of being achieved, to finally come closer to its goal in the second half of the decade at least. i say it worked. the term lisbon does not yet have the same sound as the term kyoto. but there are now national plans from each member state. we have found a structure here in parliament for how we deal with the lisbon strategy, how we try to move it forward. the commission has also set new priorities in this area. we have had interparliamentary conferences here in the house, attended by an increasing number of representatives of the parliaments. all this shows that we are on the right track and that we have succeeded in reviving the strategy. secondly, we have succeeded in making it clear that, although there are three pillars of the lisbon strategy, growth and employment are essential if we are to pursue a sound environmental and social policy. at the same time, we have made it clear that the lisbon strategy is also the european response to globalisation. we will make clear in the resolution - the topics will naturally be different this year from those of previous years - that there are a number of internal market deficits which need to be reduced. i would like to point out just two of them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. we are waiting for initiatives from the commission. the commission's initiative to liberalize trade in goods within the internal market is also a crucial point. the summit and the activities of the commission, but also of parliament, will focus on energy policy. i remember last year. at that time, the heads of state or government were not yet convinced that energy policy was truly a european issue and that we needed a european approach to this issue. at that time it was still thought that this could be regulated at national level. that's changed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have made it clear in this motion for a resolution that we must of course call for renewable energy sources as far as possible. we have also made it clear that nuclear power is still important and must be in the future in view of the co2 problem. we have also dealt with the whole problem of co2 emissions in this resolution. it will of course also be discussed in the parallel climate resolution, and in a much more intensive way. we have set ourselves very ambitious targets for energy efficiency. in fact, i think the figures have already shown that at 30% of global gdp, but only 15% of emissions, that's a sign that europe is leading the way in energy efficiency. but we can do much more and be an example to the world. we also have to - and this has been mentioned - complete the internal energy market. we know that there is still a structure of oligopolies and monopolies and that only part of the european union can speak of a real single market, but there are real deficits in large parts of the eu. let me turn to the better regulation aspect. much has been achieved here too. i would remind you of the interinstitutional agreement of december 2003. it was certainly a breakthrough, but all that glitters is not gold. the commission has still not complied with parliament's wish - expressed in more than half a dozen resolutions - for an independent legal impact assessment. but we insist! if the commission does not act soon, we shall find other ways and means of doing so ourselves. what i think is also important now is that we do a sensible benchmarking, that we review the reports from the member states and say what we think is necessary to achieve through this benchmarking that the objectives of the lisbon strategy can be achieved even better than in the past.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european parliament will adopt a resolution tomorrow in which we put a number of demands to the council. the rapporteur, mr hughes, has been very helpful in this respect. he will present you shortly with the parts of the resolution dealing with employment and the objectives of better regulation. i shall therefore confine myself to the european parliament's expectations in the field of energy policy. the most important expectation parliament has of the council is quite clear. we want a strong, common energy policy for europe. the most urgent task for the heads of state or government is to achieve real results at the spring summit. this is the measure of the success or failure of this council. a functioning internal energy market is not an end in itself. firstly, the internal energy market is part of the europe of projects. we want a european union that delivers results. if we can tell the citizens that their ever-increasing gas and electricity bills will be brought back to a tolerable level by european policies, then that is good for europe. recent studies of the european energy market have again shown that we are miles away from a functioning internal energy market. mr lehne has just mentioned this. this is a disappointing result almost a decade after the first initiatives to liberalise the electricity and gas markets. so first of all we need the internal energy market for our citizens. the second reason why a functioning internal energy market is important is the competitiveness of our companies, especially in manufacturing. no company should pay more for the amount of energy it consumes than is fair and reasonable. we owe it to our companies and to the workers in those companies. we are thus achieving the objective of the lisbon strategy, namely to increase our competitiveness both internally and externally. so we need the internal energy market secondly for europe and its competitiveness. the third reason is that in a market with functioning price signals, energy is used efficiently, alternatives are developed, savings are made. it is true that sometimes political guidance is needed to open up new avenues. we are doing this with our report in order to achieve the objectives of climate protection with a european energy policy, as we hope, and there is a consensus in this house on this. thirdly, we need a common energy policy for a europe which is aware of its global responsibilities. the european parliament will therefore be adopting a resolution tomorrow, and i will give you a selection of the most important points in detail. first, the electricity and gas distribution networks should be operated and managed economically independently of energy production in order to end the decades-long market failure in the electricity and gas markets. secondly, renewable energy contributes to a greater security of energy supply. we therefore call for the share of renewable energy sources to be increased to 50% by 2040. the european parliament is committed to ambitious targets in the field of energy research, covering all areas: conventional, renewable and nuclear. europe is a pioneer in many areas, and this role must be consolidated and extended if we are to have a knowledge-based economic order. the european parliament is following the commission's proposals on energy efficiency and the 20% savings target by 2020. we want a roadmap to reduce co2 emissions by 30% by 2020. we also call for a reform of the emissions trading system and the european parliament calls for greater solidarity between member states in energy crises. there is agreement across all political groups on the need for a common external energy policy. energy issues must become an integral part of the european union's external relations. mr president-in-office, i was pleased to hear you say that europe must speak with one voice here. that's exactly what we think. the european union's cohesion is a prerequisite for our credibility with the citizens, as commission president barroso said this morning. we agree. the commission, the council and the members of this house must face these european challenges together. only then can we live up to our responsibility to deliver results for the citizens of europe, or, as the president of this house put it this morning, succeed for our continent and serve the citizens of the european union. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. of course, it is true - as many speakers have pointed out - that we are in a very promising situation. it's been a long time since we've had the opportunity to do something together like this. this was the big problem after lisbon, that growth rates fell, partly because the member states did not do enough. we have growth again in the european union. how do we deal with this? growth is not automatic. there will be no good economic growth for long if we do not act. the single market is a powerful instrument. we buy back 90% of what we produce in the european union with our own companies and citizens. that's good, that makes us a strong international player. but now we have reached the point - as mr hughes has already pointed out - where we have to put people back to work. and we will do this not by putting pressure on them, not by excluding them, but by educating and training them better and by opening up new opportunities. this is the debate on how we can take it forward together, take it seriously and implement it at home in the member states, but for that we need better coordination. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we are not even able to introduce a common tax base, then we must not be so silent in other areas. and that's a discussion we need to have at home. i do not agree with mr lehne when he says that we must first do something for the economy before we can do something for the environment. that's old thinking that doesn't really fit with the necessary efficiency revolution that our economy is facing. with this old thinking, some of us are falling into the nuclear dead end. we must get out of this dead end, and that is why we must continue to argue and discuss.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to take up a few key words which have already been mentioned, such as reducing bureaucracy. we have repealed two directives in plenary this afternoon. i think that we need to do a little more together, and i also think that we need a mechanism to help us to determine together which policies are really unnecessary. this is a very difficult procedure - the commission prepares something, then the council has to approve it and finally parliament has to say something - and i do not think it is efficient. i believe that together, in a reasonable procedure, we could overturn unnecessary directives much more quickly. i would also be glad if the commissioner responsible would take part in the debate on this subject. i would like to touch briefly on a second subject. we have to decide this year on legislation which is of great importance in connection with the internal market, namely the liberalization of the postal market. the commission has made very strong proposals here. we in parliament will try to have our first reading as soon as possible, and i hope that the council will also put into practice what will now be decided in fine headlines and flowery words at the european council in march on the legislation on the opening up of postal markets. it is really urgent in this area, because if we want to achieve growth, employment and also social security, we will not find a solution with the model that has characterized europe so far - namely, monopoly. i look forward to the council's proposals and i hope in particular that the german government will continue its commitment and not go down on its knees. i would like to make one final comment on energy policy, because i have heard a lot of interesting things about it today. i find it very shameful, mrs harms, that the red-green energy policy will lead to an increase in co2 emissions in germany. please don't lecture us about what to do! you've done the exact opposite of what you preach in the seven years you've been in charge.
member of the commission. concerning the last point, that is not currently being negotiated within the wto round. in answer to the earlier question, my view is very clearly this: in order to advance to the other stages of negotiation, to those sectors of the talks which will yield the greatest economic and developmental benefits to the global economy and in particular to developing countries – namely industrial tariffs, liberalisation of services, the strengthening of trade rules, and in particular trade facilitation – we need first to break the agricultural deadlock in which these negotiations have been stuck now for very many months. to do that, we need a clear sense from the united states of the direction of its policy concerning trade-distorting farm subsidies. until that is clear, it will not be possible to clarify for the united states the answers to its questions concerning agricultural market access, because inevitably, when asked by the united states and others in the competitive agricultural economies how far they will open their markets to farm goods from the us and elsewhere, the developing countries will reply: ‘well what are we importing? what are you expecting us to give you access for? farmed goods or us treasury subsidies?’ this is not an unreasonable question for developing countries to ask and therefore it is only when we get greater clarity and firmness about us intentions on farm subsidies that other questions will be easier to answer within the other agricultural pillars of the negotiation – market access and export competition – thus also allowing us to move on to the substantive negotiations in the other sectors of these talks. my view, as i said in my opening remarks, is that the united states is making a reasonable engagement. it is making a good effort vis-à-vis the us congress and its negotiating partners to take these talks forward, but we have yet to see on the table any clear, firm new offer on farm subsidies and, until that is the case, it will be difficult for others to match what the united states does by making further offers of their own.
member of the commission. i am grateful to the honourable member for raising this, because it is fundamental to the confidence with which developing countries, particularly poorer, more needy developing countries, can approach their step-by-step integration to the international economy. i think rightly it will be a condition for their support for a final result – an outcome of these negotiations. so right from way back the commission, on behalf of the european union, has been pushing very strongly the case for aid for trade. i am glad to say that at the hong kong ministerial, a clear commitment – independent of the single undertaking – was made and entered into. i hope others in the developed world will clearly be able to match what we are putting in order to make that programme and the resources that need to support it a reality. in this context, i would also emphasise the importance of duty-free, quota-free access to others’ markets by the least-developed countries in the wto. this is a commitment that we have made of very long standing and which we want others, both in the developed world and amongst the emerging economies insofar as they are able, to match. a proportionate effort from these world trade talks would make a very big difference to creating fairness and a proportionate benefit for those who need it most in the developing world.
member of the commission. in bavaria, in the programming period between 2000 and 2006, eur 1.6 billion was allocated from the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund. in the next programming period between 2007 and 2013, the amount will be approximately eur 1.3 billion in contributions from the european union. it will be available for granting support to bavaria’s rural areas. among the measures implemented are: village renewal, support for different tourism activities, and support for farmers working in less-favoured areas. in the past, and in the next programming period, those in the border areas with the czech republic have benefited and will continue to benefit substantially from the implementation of these and other measures in the context of bavaria’s rural development programme. the new draft erdf operational programme 2007-2013 for bavaria pays particular attention to the rural and structurally weak areas bordering the czech republic. the bavarian authorities have proposed to concentrate in these areas more than eur 300 million out of the erdf contribution, which totals eur 575 million, including a special allocation of eur 84 million for the border areas alone. these funds shall be used for co-financing projects destined to promote, inter alia, tourism and different cultural activities. in the period between 2004 and 2006, a total of almost eur 85 million was spent under this eaggf with czech contributions in the czech border regions, and this shows that there is actually a very big absorption capacity. thus the commission believes that this trend will continue in the next programming period from 2007 to 2013. the draft rural development plan of the czech republic includes measures to support cultural heritage, and it will be funded with approximately eur 50 million from the erdf. furthermore, the czech/bavarian interreg cross-border programme – that started this year on 1 january 2007 – has a budget of eur 115 million. that programme, which has just been officially submitted to the commission, includes both rural development and support for different cultural measures.
- i'm not sure. i thank you for your very precise explanations. i would just like to make two brief points in addition. first, how do you see the question of cultural architectural heritage? is the restoration of historic buildings in the czech borderlands also part of this programme, that is to say, of the architectural heritage? secondly, how do you see the field of crossborder cultural and youth exchanges, especially as regards people in border areas and minorities? there is the german-czech future fund. can you imagine there could be cooperation here?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to emphasize once again that we are talking about an own-initiative report by the european parliament in response to the commission's communication on the reform of the common organization of the market in wine. as rapporteur for the epp-ed, i can say that the commission is right to see the strengthening of innovation and competitiveness of the wine sector in europe and the world as the main objective of this reform. this includes promotional and information campaigns for responsible consumption of wine. in order to pursue these objectives in a concentrated way, it seems to us essential that all the financing of the wine sector should remain in the first pillar. in this context, we expressly welcome the application of the new arrangements in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity by transposition into national programmes ratified by the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the wine sector. the commission also proposes to review the situation of illegal plantations in each wine-growing region before granting new planting rights. in order to achieve an ambitious and forward-looking wine market policy, we must think differently about the financing of today. the current distillation, with a share of 600 million euros out of a total of 1.4 billion euros, is certainly not an option for the future. we are, however, of the opinion that the support for the distillation of by-products of winemaking and the distillation of alcohol for drinking should be maintained. as regards the winemaking tradition in the various member states, the compromise is to respect the different traditions and traditional winemaking methods include enrichment with sucrose . in addition to its economic value, viticulture is part of the cultural heritage of the various regions of the eu. the new challenges require rules that allow for sustainability and future competitiveness. this must be our aim.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we have in the rapporteur a really determined champion of european wine. i don't agree with her on a lot of things, but her commitment is something to be thankful for. although i am more inclined to support the commission's proposals, i must point out that the liberalization which is being carried out with caution in many regions is perceived as a somewhat cold-blooded policy from brussels. the rapporteur also points out that you should take this seriously. when she invited us to have greek wine tonight, i agreed with her completely - and i hope you did too - that no one would have the idea of making petrol out of the wine we were given there. and that's the problem. we must bring wine to the market as a quality product and we must give the winegrowers the opportunity to do so. as regards the question of grubbing up - which is not to be a forced grubbing up, you must make that clear again and again - but an offer to the winegrowers to stop if they see no future on the wine market - the commission should take measures to shape the future of the market better. so, first make offers and then say, if all else fails, you can withdraw from the vineyard with the help of public funds. the question of the regions also arises. it's about money, commissioner! the regions have received money, and now when you stop a certain measure, the regions are deprived of the money. so the fighting is for purely material things. here too, the regions should be assured that these funds will continue to be made available to them according to certain criteria in the socio-ecological offer and in the market orientation in order to continue to design these regions as wine regions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what makes europe, what makes its soul, is how we deal with our diversity and europe's soul is tolerance. this is what our president-in-office, angela merkel, said in her speech to the european parliament on 17 january. we have had many discussions in recent weeks and months on the proposals for wine market reform. north and south, the individual wine-growing regions a variety of opinions and interests met. the batzeli report would have been different, more concise, more concrete and shorter for each of us. but we have managed to bring all the interests to a moderate level so that they can also be shared by all. a compromise that not only tolerates but also respects the diversity of the wine sector in europe and develops it, albeit in small steps. you, commissioner, have taken the trouble to visit many wine regions in recent months. thank you for that. you've noticed how different the regions are. we need more national, more regional options in the wine sector, national budgets from the first pillar, from which the appropriate measures can be selected and implemented from a catalogue of measures for wine in the regions compiled by the european union. we are in agreement that we will not give up, we will not clear, we will not set aside 400 000 hectares. we want to fight for market shares, for our jobs, for our cultural landscape and for our european way of life. wine belongs to europe and we must preserve the traditions and thus the age-old oenological methods. the competitors, commissioner, are ready to supply what we are mining all over the world. one thing the debate has made clear is that things cannot be changed in the short term, we need to take a long breath. politics has to be reliable. but in the long term, the actions must be market-oriented.
member of the commission. madam president, this is the second time that we have had the opportunity to discuss the proposal on voluntary modulation, and i would again like to thank mr goepel for his report. it is no big surprise that you have reconfirmed the views that were expressed last autumn and once again called on the commission to withdraw its proposal. i know and i understand parliament’s concerns about voluntary modulation. my position is no secret to you, and a repetition of your arguments and of my arguments is not necessary, but we have to face reality. turning to solutions other than voluntary modulation, i would have preferred to ensure sufficient funding in our rural development policy, but the european summit decided otherwise. one thing is very clear to me: the european parliament’s concerns do not fall on deaf ears. although the council has reaffirmed its wish to maintain its proposal, efforts are currently being made to accommodate your concerns. there have been concerns that voluntary modulation would unravel the common agricultural policy, but, as it stands now, all of the indicators are that voluntary modulation will only be used in a very limited number of member states to boost their own rural development programmes. as you will recall, we have proposed that the money has to be spent in line with almost all of the rules governing rural development. furthermore, i believe that it is appropriate for member states intending to apply voluntary modulation to carry out an impact assessment before its implementation, and we should also make sure to monitor carefully the implementation of the voluntary modulation, in particular as regards the economic situation of farmers. i believe also that this instrument should have a transitional, rather than permanent, character. indeed, i am of the opinion that any future increase in the rate of compulsory modulation should lead to a corresponding reduction of the rate of voluntary modulation. efforts to make such provisions within the context of this proposal would have the commission’s full support. as you know, it is my intention to look at voluntary and compulsory modulation when we have a discussion on the health check of the common agricultural policy. all in all, the commission remains open to exploring feasible suggestions that may result in a compromise that is acceptable to parliament, to the council and to the commission. we want to be constructive, but you will also have to be constructive. i want to close by raising an issue of great concern to me. we are on the verge of a new generation of rural development programmes. member states have already invested in drafting sound national strategy plans and programmes to achieve the objectives to which the european parliament is committed, i.e. competitive agriculture and forestry, environmental performance, creation of jobs and a lively social fabric in rural areas. we are at a crucial time for enabling a smooth start to these programmes. the 20 % reserve in commitment and payment appropriations for rural development which the european parliament has taken threatens to put this into danger. i am very concerned about this link and the fundamental problem it creates for the start of the new rural development policy. mrs grybauskaitė and i have outlined our concerned in detail in a joint letter to the chairmen of the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on budgets. the reserve impedes a proper implementation of rural development policy. as parliament strongly supports this policy, i hope that you will understand the problem that the reserve will cause. the reserve creates additional uncertainties and difficulties for member states to design programmes, and this against a background of the reserve cuts in the rural development budget decided at the summit in december 2005. approval of the rural development programmes will be delayed and the commission can only start approving programmes if the appropriations required for all the programmes in the union are available in the budget. consequently, if the commission cannot commit the 100 % amounts, member states will have to withdraw their programmes or their proposals and submit revised proposals that take into account the reduction of the 20 %. if the reserve is lifted later, all rural development programmes will then have to be adapted accordingly and you might understand that this risks hampering the uptake of the programmes in the delicate starting phase. we want to find an acceptable solution on voluntary modulation, but, meanwhile, let us not take our rural programmes as hostages. i count on you in resolving these problems.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not know whether it was wise to mention the 20% reserve in the last major chapter, because we are talking about what is called voluntary modulation, and that is the point of this debate. i think we can talk about everything else, but maybe not at this time. it is not the first time that we have discussed the pros and cons of this modulation in this house, and you are absolutely right. since our last debate, not much has changed with regard to the legislative proposal. the council and the commission are sending clear signals that they want to meet us. until that is definitively established, however, we must send a clear signal once again that we reject this proposal in its present form. the total disregard for the european parliament's political and budgetary say in the crucial agreement in the council makes it clear once again that the other institutions are not only not taking us seriously on important questions of principle, but are simply not listening to us. this cannot and must not remain the case, constitution or otherwise. until the council and the commission make us a viable offer, we should therefore stand firm in our rejection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank all the members of my committee for having followed this path with me so far. but let me also express my sincere thanks to the members of the committee on budgets and to the representatives of all the political groups for having supported the committee on agriculture in its difficult task. i would like to mention, on behalf of many, and above all, my colleagues jan mulder and herbert bösch, who have played a very important part in shaping the position of this house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i hope that the council will take them up. but please remember that the rejection of the proposal is a prerequisite for the council, but also for the commission, to take action. i therefore hope for your full support. madam president, the following is a summary of the procedure: the second report on optional modulation confirms the first report, which also rejected the commission proposal and therefore referred it back to the committee under rule 52 (3). if we reject the commission's proposal again tomorrow, then, if the commission does not withdraw its proposal - and i take this to mean that it does - we will also have to vote on the draft legislative resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european parliament has made many good proposals for medium-term financial planning, but they have not been accepted by the council. the council has cut the appropriations for rural development by 20 billion compared with the proposal from the commission and parliament - we had agreed on that. we do not need to feel responsible for the nonsense that the council has done. if such proposals had come from parliament, we would have made a mockery of ourselves. we said at the time that we wanted to consider co-financing to provide funds in case of a shortage. we want the first and second pillars to be treated equally in terms of the performance of the member states. none of this happened. we now have the situation that in germany, for example, the second pillar is being cut by 40%, and of course we must ask the german government to make this 20% optional modulation to compensate for this. but at european level we cannot agree to such nonsense because there are better proposals. if you say that if we put this in reserve, rural areas and development will be held hostage, that is not true! no, we are the ones who defend rural economic development and put a stop to the council's nonsense. if the council does not come up with better proposals or if it does not take better proposals from you, then we will have to resort to other measures which will guarantee the co-decision of parliament which we would not otherwise be granted. the reasoning on this matter is not with the council but with the european parliament. i ask you, as commissioner, to stand by us as we have stood by you and to ask the council to think and act sensibly.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'll make this quick. the commission's approach is not a simple one. we want the new approach proposed by the commission not to lead to the creation of oligopolies. we have had a negative experience in the auctioning of umts licences in germany. we want to make sure that services that safeguard diversity are given priority. i agree with mrs trautmann: broadcasters should always be treated with special respect for their tasks, for our societies and for the public. we want to ensure technological neutrality and interoperability. we want to ensure that there is a real universal service. this is also important for you as the commissioner responsible for rural areas. we do not want to be further disadvantaged in rural areas and we also want access to high-speed internet services. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. you can't play the song of freedom on the instrument of violence. this phrase sums up precisely what we are talking about here, namely the fundamental values of our european community. we are rightly proud of it and rightly defend it in our daily work, in this parliament, in this clear report. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the promotion of the rule of law and respect for human rights. that's what our work was all about. the violation of international human rights and the european legal foundations must be denounced and punished. it is not a crime of chivalry - as some of my colleagues in the committee would have you believe - but it is inhuman, immoral and unjust what has happened to fellow europeans. what has happened to the people who have been kidnapped, sold, transferred, imprisoned and tortured? who instigated it, who was involved? the truth was to be found, not why the german citizen el-masri travelled to skopje, where he was abducted and tortured in kabul. why did the turkish citizen, murat kurnaz, who was born and raised in bremen, go to pakistan, where he was sold, tortured and dragged to guantanamo, without being charged, without defence in either case? if there is a suspicion of possible criminal activity, it is up to the prosecutors and the courts to clarify it. we never took on that role. but in no case does the end justify the means. there's evidence that cia agents were involved in the kidnappings. prosecutors in milan and munich have issued arrest warrants for cia agents, and they must now be turned over to the united states. we cannot and must not allow a secret service to operate and rule as it wishes, and our governments are not resisting it. we therefore call on the german presidency to make it clear on behalf of all the member states that it will not tolerate illegal practices and human rights violations on its territory. in the fight against injustice, the law must not be broken, for that would be a betrayal of the heritage of our founding fathers and the foundation of our community. europe stands for the rule of law, the separation of powers and democracy. europe's politicians must stand up for this. the commission has already said that it is not only responsible for what it does, but also for what it does not do. it is also a matter of personal and political morality, not just jurisprudence, how we behave here. i believe that the main achievement of this committee is to take this debate to the european union, to society and far beyond its borders. there must be no way to get from europe to guantanamo. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr claudio fava, for his work. i would also like to thank our committee chairman, mr coelho, and the members of the committee secretariat, who have done an excellent job. this committee's work is also a good example of good and successful cooperation with the council of europe and its special investigator, dick marty. the cooperation, where it existed, was with national committees of inquiry, ngos, representatives of the fourth power, the media, sometimes with the executive, but unfortunately often enough also against the executive. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my surprise that the government of our member state, poland, has treated the members of the committee as if they were warsaw pact envoys. not everyone seems to understand that membership of the european union entails not only rights but also obligations. people who have nothing to hide don't act like that. perhaps the findings of our committee should also lead us to think more carefully about the protection of human rights within the european union in the future. finally, the acquis communautaire does not lose its validity after accession to the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i remember the abu zammar case. apparently, information from german authorities to the us intelligence led to his kidnapping in casablanca, morocco, in 2002 and his transportation to syria. there he was held in a torture prison, where he was also interrogated by german intelligence. i would also like to mention the el-masri case which has been raised in our committee. he and his lawyer are waiting for an apology from the united states until today. the role of the former german minister of the interior will also have to be clarified. finally, i would like to mention the case of murat kurnaz, which we also heard in our committee. the accusations made by his lawyer concerning ill-treatment by members of the german armed forces in afghanistan, as well as the alleged thwarting of an earlier release, are serious allegations which our colleagues in the bundestag will certainly investigate. one thing is certain: neither the previous nor the present federal government showed an excess of empathy in the kurnaz case. in all these cases i trust that the colleagues in the bundestag will do their job with the utmost care. one case has certainly struck everyone in our committee in a very particular way, namely the case of maher arar from canada, who has clearly shown how little knowledge gained through torture contributes to security. i welcome the fact that he has been awarded compensation. but what will this compensation bring back for him in terms of his lost liberties and physical integrity? the consequences must also be drawn for the remaining prisoners in guantanamo bay. think of the uighurs, think of the uzbeks, think of the people from saudi arabia who cannot return to the countries from which they came because these are countries that do not recognize human rights. the european union has the opportunity to do its part by saying that we have understood, that we are ready to learn from the mistakes of the past. in conclusion, this is not about anti-americanism or naivety in the fight against terrorism. what is at stake, simply and profoundly, are our common transatlantic values, and these include democracy and human rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the canadian government has taken responsibility. she apologized to mr. maher arar and promised to compensate him. it is an unprecedented testimony to the poverty of europe, the cradle of humanism, that no government has yet felt the need to follow canada's example. nor does the government of my country, which is even currently holding the presidency of the council. in berlin, on the contrary, they say that they would not decide otherwise today or that they see no reason for an apology. i have no understanding for that. such conduct is unworthy, shameful and unacceptable. i cannot understand why the political leaders of my country, especially foreign minister steinmeier, have refused to appear before our committee and to make any statement about the martyrdom suffered by khaled el masri and murat kurnaz. we have been hiding behind the committee of inquiry of the german bundestag and have not even been prepared to explain here in front of the european parliament, without any further ado, that the fight against terrorism cannot be a license for human rights violations, for anyone, not for the intelligence services and not for political leaders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is against this background, and also in view of the apparent attempt in berlin to use partisan manoeuvres to undermine the full explanation of the abduction of mr el masri and the years of torture of mr kurnaz in guantánamo, that i must say that i also have no understanding of amendment no 224 by the spe group. i ask the honourable members what it is that, despite the questions still open in the el masri case, actually leads them to ask for a finding that there was no involvement of the german authorities in the illegal abduction. governments have a fundamental duty to report on all human rights violations committed on their territory or against their citizens. they must prove that they have always acted correctly and in accordance with the european convention on human rights and the union's common fundamental values. we should therefore follow the call of amnesty international and human rights watch and adopt a strong report today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the fight against terrorism - one of the greatest threats to civilized humanity - can only be won by working together. we will also have to use the services of intelligence services in the fight against terrorism. however, the fight against terrorism will only be successful if we respect our rule of law standards and do not override them in the context of the fight against terrorism. this must be clear. there are allegations that must be investigated and clarified and that must have consequences: abduction of prisoners, torture, secret prisons. this is quite clear and the relevant prosecutors have already started to act. but what does this report contribute? from the point of view of the rule of law, this report is a collection of suspicions. it reads: " the serious suspicion " . the committee is outraged; he shall request the publication of the results of the negotiations; regrets the refusal of the director of europol to appear, which he vehemently denies; considers it very likely that ... etc. this is not enough. the report clearly does not meet the requirements of the rule of law that we ourselves demand. let us consider only the most important point raised in the inquiry, namely the allegation that there are secret prisons in romania and poland. the report does not provide even a shadow of evidence. he's not providing anything that hasn't been read about in the media before. in this respect, the report is a watershed. he's also biased. because you should read how the intelligence work is generally handled. the epp group will therefore only vote in favour of the report if it is put on a more balanced track by means of a few amendments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr coelho and mr fava in particular. what they have done in the work of the committee, how much this report has actually revealed, has been said by mr salafranca amongst others. it is regrettable that there are some colleagues - unfortunately, mainly from the epp group - who behave like little boys who want to wear shorts in winter, even though it is snowing outside and they claim that it is not cold. it is with this stubbornness that some behave and want to continue blocking the political work that this committee has done, with a misguided loyalty to try to protect those who have basically helped to kidnap people and to actually set up secret prisons. i think this is something that we've, if not proven, we've made so clear from the evidence that it's difficult to shut down and oppose it. it is not a question of the commission's being able to do so. i think we must make it clear at this point that every human right and every fundamental right must be of interest to the european union, which is supranational.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are ending today, after a year of hearings and interrogations, our work on the cia's investigative committee. the epp-ed group will be decisively concerned whether the vote on this report today will be based on facts and evidence or whether conjecture and supposition will prevail. the epp-ed group will therefore be unable to support the report if it continues to include areas which are not covered by the mandate given to us, if the report remains unbalanced with regard to the individual member states, if it also makes unsubstantiated assumptions about the existence of secret prisons on eu territory, if it contains unfounded allegations, generalizations and tendentious suggestions, and if it calls for disproportionate reactions against the member states, such as the suspension of the right to vote of a member state in the council, and if, in the end, this report criminalizes secret activities in general. let me make one thing clear: we can live with the original report by rapporteur claudio fava in large measure. if we return to this point with today's vote, if you, mr fava, accept our amendments which seek to clarify and clarify, then we can present today, by a large majority, a balanced final result of the european parliament, a result which contains a clear vote in favour of our rule of law, the respect for our fundamental rights and freedoms, but also a result which shows that we have accepted our responsibility for objective information. i would like to make it equally clear that we will not agree to the report if you, mr rapporteur, ignore our key proposals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to abbreviate the vote, but i must point out the following: the epp-ed group has submitted to the tabling office a list of separate votes which we have requested and which have also been taken up by the uen group. these must be taken into account in the voting procedures. the rest can then be voted on en bloc. if this is the way it is handled, we can give our consent here. otherwise, we'll have to take it one at a time.
mr president of the italian republic, it is with great pleasure that we welcome you to the european parliament, which you know so well for having been an active and respected member. i take this opportunity to welcome your wife, the dear mrs napolitano, who is accompanying you today on a visit to the european parliament and is following us from the gallery. you have led the constitutional affairs committee of our parliament with wisdom and efficiency, showing a strong europeanist faith which you maintain intact in your present role as head of the italian state. i am also pleased to greet all those in italy who are following this event live on television, as well as the students and teachers in many italian universities who are linked to the european parliament via satellite, as part of the project 'towards a european constitution'. i am not going to go into that. today i would like to welcome giorgio napolitano, as a former colleague and committed european, to our very own house. (beifall) fifty years after the signature of the rome treaties, you are thus in your person and in your office as the highest representative of italy playing the central role of your country in the european unification process. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. in connection with the 50th anniversary of the romish treaties, the expression 'von rom nach rom' is often used. but not only rome, but also other italian cities stand at the centre of european history. the messina conference of 1955 had as its aim to bring about a new europe out of the crisis by abolishing the community defence system. less than two years later, the european economic community was founded. mr president, italy has been and remains one of the fundamental pillars of the process of european integration. we trust in your commitment and that of your country to allow this process to resume and to move forward at a rapid pace. i therefore invite you, mr president, to take the floor before our assembly. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the italian republic. mr president, i thank you very much for the kind and friendly words you have addressed to me and to italy. they reflect our common feeling and action in the period of the closest cooperation between us. we worked together, in our respective roles, above all to bring about the constitutional treaty to which you now renew your strong support. i therefore express my sincere appreciation and warm wishes to you at the beginning of your important mandate. mr poettering, vice-president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i return to this chamber with the same sense of belonging that has animated me during my years in the european parliament: membership of the parliamentary institution and membership of europe. i have been a member of my country's national parliament for several decades but i felt at ease with the task of serving as an elected member of this house when i was called to serve. this is no inconvenience, because the european parliament has, at least since 1979, the same dignity, authority and democratic legitimacy as any freely elected parliament. there is no contradiction, because i have always believed and still believe that there should be no misunderstanding and antagonism between national parliaments and the european parliament, but only mutual respect and fruitful cooperation. and above all, i have always been convinced that one can well represent the reasons and interests of one's country in the european parliament as well as in the national parliament: the european parliament has been able to take a more comprehensive view of the problems and the choices which, in the interests of our national communities, must be made on a european scale. what unites us all is precisely the sense of belonging to europe as a common heritage of values and ideas, of traditions and hopes, and as a project for building a new political and institutional entity, capable of meeting the challenges of the times in which we live and of the foreseeable future. this explains the peculiarity of the experience of the european parliament: the european parliament is a political body, a political body which does not follow narrow and divergent national logics, and which can certainly be divided on important issues, in votes which are certainly significant, but which converge to a very large extent in the vision of the fundamental objectives to be pursued in order to strengthen the construction of a united europe. when - as has happened so many times over the decades - the choice was between going further, making european unity wider and stronger, or marking the way and even going back, the european parliament always played a driving role, it spoke out clearly, with very large majorities, to advance the common construction and to broaden its horizon and ambitions. indeed, since the great new event of the election of the european parliament by universal suffrage in 1979, the path of parliamentarisation and constitutionalisation of the union had become a necessary prospect in order to strengthen the democratic foundations of the integration process and to guarantee the rights and opportunities for participation of citizens. the european parliament did so by adopting the draft treaty establishing the european union on 14 february 1984 - exactly 23 years ago. that draft, drawn up and discussed at the instigation of altiero spinelli, unfortunately did not become a treaty and, despite the long and not fruitless subsequent path, often inspired by the proposals of the same spinelli project, many questions remained open and new ones arose. thus, when, at the time of the signing of the disappointing treaty of nice, governments agreed on the need to tackle the major issues of europe's future and to launch a genuine constituent process, parliament gave its full support by working together to find satisfactory solutions to the questions raised in the laeken declaration of december 2001. the european parliament can be proud of the role it played more than ever in that phase, especially in the brussels convention, in its working groups, in its plenary sessions and in its presidium. members of the european parliament, 2001, 2002, 2003: there was no pause in those years, there was serious reflection, genuine and deep reflection. the final decisions of the intergovernmental conference were therefore based on a very rich analysis, a text which was thought through and discussed at length. the result was a compromise, but not a low-level one: a meeting place for different points of view was found; each party - including the european parliament - sacrificed some of its own demands and proposals in order to reach an agreement that would still advance the cause of european unity and integration. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that this extraordinary and protracted political and cultural effort is destined to end in nothing? that the signatures of 27 heads of state or government at the bottom of that text no longer have any value? of course, we all know how traumatic it was to vote against ratification of the constitutional treaty in the referendums held in two of the six founding countries of the european community. and we also know what questions we are faced with as a result of the spread, also in other countries, of doubts and scepticism about the way forward in europe, about the present state and prospects of the european union. in reality, the consequences of a poor effort to involve citizens in the great choices of european integration and unification are paying off, to spread awareness among public opinion in all countries of the extraordinary achievements and progress made in 50 years, and of the new, ever more pressing needs for strengthening the european union, its cohesion and its capacity for action. this cannot, however, lead to an underestimation of the reasons for the constitutional treaty, signed in rome in october 2004, or of the solutions contained therein. these have already been concrete, albeit partial, responses that need to be better known and appreciated to citizens' demands, including for greater transparency and democracy in the union. while the constitutional treaty as a whole has been a successful meeting point, it should be remembered that a good compromise involves both the acceptance of certain points of view and the renunciation of others. let's not forget that when we talk about getting our hands on the 2004 text: no one can think of shifting the balance of the compromise reached to his own advantage. opening a new negotiation can mean opening a pandora's box, risking a fresh start, and starting a confrontation with unpredictable results and timing. eighteen of the 27 member states have ratified the treaty, representing 275 million european citizens: they deserve respect for having kept the commitment they signed in rome. it is clear, of course, that the majorities expressed in the opposite direction in the french and dutch referendums must also be respected and that all possible clarifications must therefore be sought as to the concerns which gave rise to those opposing pronouncements. but it is time for europe to break the deadlock. and it cannot seriously be argued that the union does not need, after the great enlargement, a redefinition of the whole framework of its values and objectives and a reform of its institutional structures. working on a draft constitution for europe was not a formality, a whim or a luxury: the european union has responded to a profound need of europe at this historic moment. nor can the europe of projects or results be proposed today as an alternative vision and strategy. it is true that the union has not stood still in the last two years. it has given the greatest proof of what it could represent on the international scene when it has managed to speak with one voice on the war in lebanon, promoting a new and challenging mission for peace in that region and throughout the middle east. alongside this renewed political initiative, the budget for this period includes the definition of some important directives, with the substantial contribution of the european parliament through the powers of the codecision procedure, and the agreement to a limited strengthening of the meagre financial perspective for 2007-13. but, ladies and gentlemen, in the way of achieving results, the current institutional framework does not allow us to go very far. it is certainly important to develop and outline the lines of new common policies: the commission has recently done the same for environmental and energy problems, which have now exploded in all their acuteness with climate change and the tensions over the supply of oil and gas. however, we know from long experience that commission documents, communications and even legislative proposals can lead to little or no progress: the european parliament has been a major player in the process of european integration. we also know that the creation of the single currency was not followed by the economic governance that would have been necessary to ensure the effective achievement of the objectives formulated in the grand plan of the lisbon strategy. so what is the key to making projects viable and to really growing a europe of results? the strength of institutions and political commitment is decisive. it is crucial for the union to have institutions that are stronger than the resistance of those member states that remain more closed in defence of anachronistic prerogatives and self-serving national presumptions. the constitutional treaty has cleared the field of any fear or suspicion of a turn towards a centralized super-state: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the award of public contracts. it can rather be argued that it has innovated too little to adapt its operating rules and decision-making procedures to the challenge of the enlarged union, and too little to initiate the new common policies that are needed. the most decisive steps towards a common foreign and security policy, a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice, structured cooperation in the field of defence and enhanced cooperation in other fields were taken with the constitutional treaty. but if a new negotiation were to be opened and these innovations were to be called into question from some quarters, starting with the establishment of a european foreign minister and a european external action service, it can be certain that other parties would rather demand the completion or integration of the 2004 treaty with new, bolder and more coherent choices for the development of the integration process. for example, the need for a greater extension of the area of majority decisions in the council would understandably be proposed: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is not forced to vote on the draft budget, because the overcoming of the unanimity rule and the right of veto does not preclude, but rather encourages, the search for broad consensus and the rapid achievement of acceptable agreements. the proposal to overcome the unanimity requirement for future reforms of the treaties and for their entry into force would also be put forward again. so we need a lot of realism on all sides. realism and determination not to let the tendency to weaken and water down the choice made more than fifty years ago prevail. the perspective of a europe capable of integration, one and plural, rich in its diversity, aware of its common heritage of civilisation, strong in combining cooperation between national governments with a new supranational dimension was then chosen. we are about to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the treaties of rome, and it is important to take the opportunity to confirm that perspective and that choice, making clear the new reasons and the new ambitions. but it was in paris that the 'community invention' was born in 1950, which went on to outline the farthest horizon of the european federation, the united states of europe. and it is from paris that we are confidently awaiting a responsible contribution to overcoming the crisis that has opened up with the non-ratification of the 2004 treaty. our friend france has such a high sense of her role in europe and the world that we will not miss this, by now, decisive contribution. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have drawn your attention to some essential elements of the framework in which the decisions to be taken in the near future are to be placed, without going into the substance of the many hypotheses which have recently emerged at the legal, technical and political level in the search for a way out of the institutional impasse. italy looks with full confidence to the commitment of the german presidency to the principles and values which chancellor merkel referred to in her speech in this chamber and to the reaffirmation of the objective of achieving the adoption of the constitutional treaty. whatever the roadmap we are discussing today, it is important that we agree on the need to present the constitutional treaty, which has already entered into force, with its message and programme to the citizens at the 2009 elections. i would like to make an appeal to the sense of responsibility and political will of all those who are in charge of our countries. no one is unaware of the scale of the new threats, challenges and opportunities that lie ahead of us. europe can only have an impact on international relations and global development, regain its momentum and dynamism and become a force in the world if it strengthens its cohesion and unity by rapidly equipping itself as a union with the necessary institutions and resources. the alternative - we should know this - is a dramatic decline in the role of all our countries, in the historical role of our continent. let me repeat the words with which jean monnet concluded his memoirs in 1976: we cannot stop when the whole world around us is moving. thirty years later, those words are even truer, they sound like a siege from which you can no longer escape. let the forces which are guiding all our countries be able to live up to this awareness and responsibility, let a new european political will be born and let the voice of the european parliament be heard louder than ever, its call for consistency and courage, as in the past. italy will do its part, mr president, and will make its contribution, as it has done since the beginning of the integration process. this contribution is symbolized by the figures of a visionary statesman, alcide de gasperi, and a passionate prophet and fighter for the european idea, altiero spinelli, whose centenary we are celebrating this year. and by following their example and reaffirming italy's commitment to europe, i know that i can represent my country in the assembly of its political forces and in the deepest feelings of its citizens. at the same time, i wanted to address you, ladies and gentlemen, in a more personal tone, prompted by the emotion of those who, sitting in these seats, working in this parliament, have learned ever better that the cause of our peoples, our nations, our common future, is only served by working for a united europe.
mr president, thank you very much for this important speech. we have confidence in italy. i would like to ask you this. we are grateful to them for this great network they have maintained. they are in the tradition of the great italian personalities, who stand for the unity of our continents. they do not only go to parliaments, but they go out and talk to young people, as happened a few days ago at the university of tübingen in germany. for this great effort we wish to thank you from the bottom of our hearts and wish you strength and health for the future, so that we can continue to work together so committed to the unity of our continents. thank you, president of the italian republic. thanks to giorgio napolitano. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the oral amendment is adopted in accordance with paragraph 82 and is agreed with the rapporteur, mr fava, who supports the oral amendment. i read: 'deplores the inquiry by the prosecutors of hamburg north against three journalists of stern magazine and one collaborator of the financial times deutschland on the basis of complicity in betrayal of secrets'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to point out to my group that we have a mistake in the voting list. we're in the plus here.
in writing. the federal government bears a high degree of co-responsibility for the cia's torture flights. this is the conclusion of the report of the cia commission of inquiry, which was adopted today by the european parliament. the black-and-red federal government cannot continue to hide behind the consequences, even though the social democrats in the european parliament have obviously weakened some of the wording in the report as a result of their pressure. the european parliament concludes that 'according to information provided by murat kurnaz's lawyer and the german authorities in 2002, there was a prospect of murat kurnaz's release from guantánamo, but that this was not accepted by the german authorities' and that 'murat kurnaz's lawyer had been told on numerous occasions by the german government since 2002 that it was impossible to enter into negotiations with the us government regarding his release because murat kurnaz was a turkish citizen', despite the fact that 'all investigations had already concluded at the end of october 2002 that murat kurnaz did not pose a terrorist threat'. i agree with my colleagues that this bad misconduct by representatives of the former red-green government must be investigated. foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier should not fool the public any longer. the former german intelligence coordinator must finally take responsibility for what happened.
in writing. i reject the cia report because many of the minimum requirements i set for a committee report are not met. neither the methodology nor the analysis of the procedure is in line with my understanding of a committee of inquiry. the findings are not different from those of dick marty, an investigator with the council of europe, although some of his witnesses have since changed their minds. truth, facts and honesty have given way to suspicion and accusation. that doesn't mean i approve of the us's behavior.
the next item is the report by mr yañez-barnuevo garcía, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the external dimension of the fight against terrorism (com (2006) 2032 final) (a6-0441/2006).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your appointment. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. terrorism - and i thank the rapporteur for his report - is a transnational phenomenon. we will only succeed if there is crossborder cooperation within the european union and with the states and organisations outside the european union. this is often a difficult matter, especially when we look at the domestic part of this common security problem, which is still regulated at the intergovernmental level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is proof that if we want to have greater security against terrorism and organised crime, we need the european constitution to introduce this more strongly in the community area of better binding and decision-making. in addition to the need for closer cooperation between security agencies, there is also an urgent need to tackle the causes. there is no justification for terrorism. however, there are causes that we have to deal with, and i believe that the political, economic and social issues are of great importance. certain alibi events also need to be terminated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is just an example of the fact that there are certain connections here. i think it is particularly important - and this is clear from the report - that we make use of intercultural dialogue. we must also make it clear to the other regions of the world that we value their culture, their religion, their development as equals, so that such conflicts do not arise out of a feeling of cultural inferiority. it's a special duty. all this must be done from the point of view of the rule of law and respect for our values. if we give up our values, the others have won. that is why we must stand up for our values and the rule of law.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank mr garcia for his report. your speech was much better than your report. i know that some of the points in the report have been incorporated into your report, and unfortunately the deve opinion has not been included. terrorism of any kind is completely unacceptable. unfortunately, the report does not contain a specific definition of terrorism. the european parliament has been a very active participant in this debate. there are many different groups who feel that they must act in a terrorist way for a variety of reasons. we need to engage with the groups and find out why they're coming to the wrong conclusion that they need to be terrorists. i also see that the whole area of state terrorism, for example, is completely left out. what about the french attack on the green peace ship? we must deal with the causes of terrorism, as some colleagues have already said. the western powers are currently waging a war against terrorism in afghanistan and iraq, which is proving to be completely counterproductive. because terrorism is increasing, not decreasing, because of these wars. the report says that there is a whole series of measures to be tightened up, and that fundamental rights are being eroded more and more. we cannot therefore agree to this report. we have a minority vote on this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. commissioner almunia has pointed out that we are practically back to 3% growth, which means we are on the lisbon course. this is what we have sought with the lisbon strategy, to generate continuous growth of 3%, so that we can implement the appropriate social and economic reforms for the benefit of all in europe. it hasn't been for years. so we have to realize that this is not going to be a self-driving car. much of this upswing is cyclical in nature. we can't be sure that there'll be a sequel. that is why our report is of the opinion that we must take action, that we must design, that we must not rest and let time pass without taking the appropriate political steps. the single market is our great asset. we have a single market which is more powerful than the united states in terms of its capacity. ninety per cent of what we produce in the european union is bought back by our own companies as consumers. this gives us the strength to face the vicissitudes of globalization. that is why we are right in saying that this single market must be completed. this applies to financial services, to the energy question and to the free movement of workers in europe, which is a fundamental right of workers that we must implement everywhere. but this single market can only work if we give it a political framework, if we dare to shape it and if we ensure that there are social balances. that is why it is so important to remember that we have succeeded in creating this social balance in the services directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only then will they be able to invest as consumers. only then will they be able to develop their skills as workers and play a decisive role in the innovation of our societies. that is why it is so important in this report to ask the member states: where are you? how far have you gotten? what have you done in relation to the major objectives we set out in lisbon? we are clearly seeing that the member states are beginning to respond. but these responses are still hesitant and not everywhere trained to the same quality as we imagine. the active employment policy and the social integration policy in particular leave much to be desired. if we look at the positive balance, we see that the countries that are at the forefront are the ones that dare not to save their nations, but invest in the active parts of society, in small and medium-sized enterprises, in those who go to school, in those who are educated, in those who are graduated, and thus also bring new creativity into society. it is no coincidence that many scandinavian countries have the best balance sheets here under the nordic model. all countries must find the solution that suits them, but we strongly encourage the member states to take part in shaping and pursuing this active lisbon path. i am grateful that the president of the council, minister gloser, did not just ignore the report but started the dialogue. i would like to ask you, mr gloser, to be brave, because i have not found any provision in the treaty which prohibits us from developing closer forms of cooperation in reforming the integrated guidelines and in taking lisbon and the broad lines of economic policy to a new stage. the european parliament expects adequate participation, because only then can we help to bring the lisbon objectives closer to the citizens, the companies, the trade unions and the workers. i support the commission's intention to make more intensive proposals here. why should not these proposals be adopted by the european council as guidelines and then provide a stronger orientation for the member states? i do not want to conclude without expressing my sincere thanks to the services involved in the preparation of this report - both in the secretariat and in the political groups. i would also like to express my sincere thanks to the shadow rapporteurs, mr montoro romero, mrs in 't veld, mrs rühle and mrs wagenknecht, for the excellent cooperation which made it possible to present a unanimous report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. firstly, i must say that the label 'lisbon strategy' is now being put on everything, no matter how far one departs from the original objective. employment policy was the original reason and the central objective of the lisbon strategy, but it is now reduced to an annex. this redefinition is a blurring policy, in order not to have to admit that while economic data in the eu are developing positively, there is no comparable positive development in employment data. secondly, i would like to recall that the growth and jobs guidelines commit eu heads of state or government to concrete commitments for their national policies at each spring summit. thirdly, the central concern has always been to combat social exclusion of people. this is the only way to reduce longterm unemployment and poverty effectively. in this context, particular attention must be paid to groups which, due to their personal characteristics, are particularly vulnerable to discrimination in accessing the labour market, such as disabled people and women migrants. this year, however, the council and the commission are simply ignoring this central concern. but there is no reason for that, because the exclusion has not abated. we cannot accept the unilateral targeting of employment policy on those who already have work. the current guideline must be taken as seriously as it has been, and the grand coalition must not shift the focus of this guideline and simply look the other way where social hardship is most acute.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the present report on the broad lines of economic policy contains a number of statements which i share. he stresses that economic growth is not an end in itself, but that the quality of people's lives must be the focus. he also called for a demand-oriented economic policy, not just export-oriented, and expressed concern at the persistently high level of poverty in the european union. all of this is welcome, and unfortunately it is not taken for granted in this house. the report does, however, contain passages which make it impossible to agree with it. the positive reference to the neoliberal services directive, which will further fuel wage dumping and social plunder in the european union and thus contribute to more poverty and exclusion, is unacceptable in any event from the point of view of our group. we also find the call for further liberalisation of the energy sector unacceptable. europe does not need any more deregulation and liberalisation and privatisation. europe needs the opposite! we need a radically different economic policy, one in which the interests of workers and consumers finally take precedence over the private profit interests of the big corporations.
the president of the council. i have already said that it has only been in operation for a few months, so it is too short a period for a final assessment to be made at this stage. but i think the numbers show the interest. we have spoken many times today about the transparency and the communication of european policies, including decisions which are close to the citizen. it remains a constant task of many actors in the european union to look for ways to make these policies more transparent. we will consider what can be improved and how to possibly expand the circle of users after a while, when we have reliable data. i ask for a little patience until we have a more reliable numbering system.
the president of the council. i do not know what impression you have generally had of your work as an official of the european union, but i would just like to say that an attempt has been made to create more transparency. it often depends on the issues that need to be dealt with and which may seem very technocratic to the outside world. i repeat, it is a question of improving transparency. i am fully aware that the progress that has been made is not enough. there are other possibilities, but as for the assistants you mentioned, there aren't that many.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can answer your question as follows: the european union fully supports the efforts of mr martti ahtisaari. the strategic objective remains to bring about a rapid and lasting settlement in kosovo without jeopardising democracy in serbia and stability in the region as a whole. the european union is currently planning three projects. it is the international civilian mission, a rule of law mission and programmes to continue to promote economic development and the european perspective of kosovo. in all three cases, the planning is carried out in close cooperation with the local authorities and other international actors, in particular the united states and nato. the team preparing the international civilian mission started its work in pristina on 9 october 2006. it has the dual task of planning the structure and staffing of the mission and identifying its infrastructure needs, while preparing, together with unmik and the competent authorities of kosovo, a possible transfer of responsibilities to the local authorities on the one hand and the icm on the other. a planning team has been in kosovo since may 2006 to prepare for a possible rule of law mission under the european security and defence policy. the planned mission will provide general guidance, observation and advice on rule of law issues. it would also have executive powers in some areas of police, judicial and customs. the precise scope of the mandate will be determined following the status regime. the mission, which would be launched after the completion of the status process and a transition period with unmik, would be the largest civilian esdp mission to date. a successful conclusion of the status process, led by president ahtisaari, is a crucial prerequisite for providing a clear perspective to the people of kosovo, but also for stability in the region as a whole. it is the last stage in the process of dismantling the former yugoslavia.
minister! thank you for your very good and precise answer. the longer the status issue is delayed, the greater the risk of instability in kosovo, which could in turn be used to divide kosovo, even if it is through the back door. my question is whether, for example, in potential crisis regions such as mitrovica, there could not be a more intensive international and eu presence - both in terms of civilian and military forces - which would go far beyond the present dimension and would be comparable to the status of vukovar at the time.
the president of the council. in any case, the size of the forces to be deployed will not be at the level you mentioned last time, but it will be the largest civilian mission in the field of justice and policing. i am happy to share the figures that have been specifically envisaged for this mission and to link them to what this means in the end. the funds required for this mission are considerable and represent a significant part of our budget.
the president of the council. the council attaches great importance to the annual audit and the court of auditors' statement of assurance and has repeatedly reaffirmed its firm commitment to sound financial management in the european union. the council shall, for each financial year, send to the european parliament, after an in-depth examination of the annual report of the european court of auditors in the relevant council bodies, a discharge recommendation in accordance with article 276 (1) of the treaty. this discharge recommendation includes the extensive council conclusions on the annual report of the european court of auditors, in which the council deals in detail with the findings of the european court of auditors and the corresponding commission opinions. the conclusions shall also include recommendations to the commission and the member states on how to address identified shortcomings and weaknesses. these council conclusions will be debated by the european parliament at the same time as the annual report of the european court of auditors, as part of the discharge procedure. in addition to these detailed conclusions, it would not seem appropriate to have another council report which would have to have essentially the same content.
the problem with the declaration of assurance is that it is shared management. such a report could be a way out of the situation and still obtain a positive declaration of reliability for shared management. why is the council not prepared to do so?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in darfur remains appalling. the international community's response is totally inadequate. the speakers have described the situation sufficiently, and there is no prospect of improvement for the people. the necessary decisions, such as un security council resolution 1706, have been taken, but the implementation has ultimately failed at the hands of the government in khartoum, whose responsible leaders are likely to be found, for the most part, with their names in the files of the international criminal court, which already opened an investigation into the crimes in darfur in june 2005. the united nations must therefore act in accordance with its responsibility to protect these people, because the government of sudan has failed to protect and assist the people of darfur from war crimes and crimes against humanity. parliament therefore called on the united nations to set a date for the deployment of a un-supported peacekeeping force, in accordance with article 7 of the un charter, even if there is no authorization or consent from the regime in khartoum. we call on the council and the commission to do everything in their power to put an end to the continuing humanitarian catastrophe. it is possible to set concrete in motion at short notice without much effort. the personal sanctions against representatives of the regime should also be imposed unilaterally by the eu, not only when everyone does it. i have always been in favour of banning family members from shopping trips to europe. so far, the darfur regime has ignored the no-fly zone imposed by security council resolution 1591 and continues to bomb villages in darfur. we call for the use of existing capacity in the region to enforce this no-fly zone. we know which member states have aircraft in the region, not to say in the immediate vicinity. why are they not being used for a un purpose? the eu must at least agree to this. the governments of khartoum should also be made to understand that they should not place too much reliance on powers outside africa. the government of sudan is on very thin ice. it should not over-emphasise african solidarity. she's already been shot twice. the acp summit in khartoum was the summit with the lowest number of heads of state or government, a clear sign of discouragement. and the fact that the au summit elected kufuor, not the sudanese president, was another clear indication of the disapproval.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not in the age of globalisation, structural changes or dislocations affect the third world countries in the political sphere, in the social sphere and they are affected by changes in the climate. often these are countries which have not yet or only insufficiently participated in sustainable development. we find that previous approaches to help people in these countries to have a better perspective for their lives have not been successful or have not been sufficiently successful. budgetary assistance - this is the subject of this own-initiative report - is today one of the recognised instruments of european union development cooperation. over 20% of edf resources with a rising trend are already being spent in this way. if the framework is right, budgetary assistance can be an effective instrument of development cooperation. this instrument allows donors and beneficiaries to take a partnership approach to development cooperation, but it must be genuinely desired by both parties, since the donor's funds are left to the beneficiary for its own use without preconditions. the condition is that the beneficiary agrees to support development strategies and programmes, in particular comprehensive poverty reduction strategies. donors and beneficiaries agree to review the success of this support on the basis of a variety of performance indicators. the european commission has found an approach which has received much attention and also much support, by dividing the promised benefits into fixed and variable tranches and making the payment of the variable tranches dependent on the target fulfilment of the beneficiary. i see in principle a great value and advantage of this instrument in the opening of a general policy dialogue between donors and recipients. the actors who ultimately negotiate the budgetary support with the beneficiary are given access to and influence over the beneficiary's policies and budget. this will enable all major policy areas and measures to be developed and reviewed jointly with partners willing to cooperate. we must now ask ourselves in the european parliament how this advantage is reflected in our work, for example when we discuss commission strategy papers. will it also change our knowledge or influence on development cooperation? can we better account for the use of our development aid and report better results of our aid, now and in the future? have we developed sufficient expertise in the use of this instrument? the evaluation of the oecd/dac evaluation network on the example of seven countries, which has been available since may last year, warns against cautious assessment because it is too early to really assess this new instrument of budgetary assistance. we must also be clear about when budgetary aid should not be used or withdrawn. on the donor side, no one should be tempted to think that budgetary aid is a good thing because it could serve to accelerate the outflow of funds and thus boast the reputation of being an effective donor at international level, while upholding the principle of ownership in favour of the recipient side. it must never be about the flow of funds or the correct use of funds. the effectiveness of budget support must also always be assessed in the light of whether it actually achieves the desired objectives better than other means. the budget support instrument cannot be used if the recipient side does not manage public expenditure in a sufficiently transparent, accountable and efficient manner, if there is no defined overall economic policy or sectoral policy, defined by the country itself and agreed by the main donors, and if public procurement is not open and transparent. article 61 (2) of the cotonou agreement, which i have just quoted word for word, is clear in this respect. only if these conditions are met will direct budgetary support be granted for support or sectoral reforms. it is also interesting that budget support must be linked to a reform process. there is no budgetary support for a 'further so'. i believe that part of the reform process is to develop a tradition of accountability in these countries and therefore involve the parliaments and the supreme audit authorities in the evaluation. this is an important point for us parliamentarians in particular in our cooperation with our colleagues in these countries. i hope that with this report and with this evaluation we will reach a stage where we can intensify the dialogue, particularly in those countries where we think the commission is a little careless, in order to finally arrive at a clear position as to whether budgetary aid is really the best instrument for those concerned.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his very good report, which has won a large majority in the committee. i would also like to congratulate the president of the european investment bank who is here today. you represent the largest investment bank in the world. they have a very good reputation as a bank and the european union can be proud of the fact that the eib is playing a major role globally. this is also linked to you, mr president maystadt, and to your role as a communicator with a political impact. as rapporteur for the central innovation programme in europe, the competitiveness and innovation programme (cip), i have seen how central the role of the european investment bank is to innovation. with jaspers and jeremie you have introduced yet more tools with which you can really build on innovation. you have shown us with the risk sharing finance facility - i regret to use these english terms - that you have also played a central role in finding a compromise for the budget. thank you very much for that. we could not have adopted our budget without your contribution. however, i would also like to say - and this is also true of my colleagues from the mediterranean countries - that we should also pay more attention to innovation in cohesion. supporting cohesion alone does not help a lisbon strategy that is based on innovation. we must always ensure that the theme of innovation is at the heart of every project. you should also consider taking new paths. i would like to turn to the subject of patents. we have very few patents in europe compared to the americans, and we have very expensive patents compared to the chinese. the european investment bank could play a key role in financing patents for smes. we have recently had a conference on this subject, at which the bank was represented by the investment fund. the bank and the fund have been very positive about this, parliament has been very positive about this, the commission has been a little hesitant. but we must do this to make smes more aware of innovation. now the big energy issue. i am very pleased that the european investment bank is already playing a prominent role in this mega-theme of the future. it is responsible for the many projects, particularly in the pipeline sector. the future depends on you, because we cannot achieve our energy strategy unless the bank remains active and a leader in this area. let me turn to the subject of projects outside the european union. the rapporteur himself calls for an increase in the funds for latin america. it can't be alone. we must give the bank the opportunity to finance strategic european projects anywhere in the world, such as at beijing airport. this is of paramount importance to us europeans. the european investment bank should be the anchor of the european development landscape, and you, mr maystadt, must ensure that it is. the relationship between the eib and the european bank for reconstruction and development (the european council bank) also needs to be clarified.
member of the commission. i should like to begin by thanking and congratulating mr dos santos and the committee on economic and monetary affairs on their report. it is a very comprehensive report and particularly timely, as the european council of 8 march is discussing a comprehensive energy package which the commission adopted last january. the package proposes a comprehensive european strategy to meet the challenge of securing energy supplies while at the same time combating climate change. the fact that in recent weeks or months the price of oil has fallen again from the highs of close to $80 a barrel reached last summer during the lebanon crisis does not call into question the main conclusions and recommendations contained in the report. the report, in its conclusions and recommendations, emphasizes the structural factors which have led to the price levels recently reached, or to the current price levels, factors which will no doubt continue to be present. however, with the growth and inflation data for 2006 that have become known in recent days, it is worth highlighting the good performance of the european economy in general in the face of the volatility and the increase in oil prices that have been known during this year. i agree with the report's concerns about the consequences of rising oil prices, but it is also true that these consequences in recent months have been less than we had feared and less than those which have been manifested in previous episodes of sharp increases in oil prices. this is a fact which should be emphasized, and it is connected with the debate we had yesterday in this house on the reports by mr bullmann and mr andersson. it is significant that, at a time when the european council is going to be debating both this energy and climate change strategy package and the lisbon strategy, our economies in europe have been through a period of sharp increases in oil prices and at the same time have seen economic growth accelerate without experiencing particularly worrying price tensions. this is not a matter of chance, as i said yesterday in the house, it is the result of the efforts made in recent years to make the functioning of the markets for goods, services, capital and labour in europe more efficient, and it is the result, beyond the cyclical component of the current economic situation, of the positive results which are beginning to be obtained thanks to the structural reforms already undertaken and thanks to the budgetary consolidation efforts made in recent years. and this message must be clearly conveyed to the citizens so that public opinion is in a position, on the one hand, to appreciate the efforts we have asked them to make so far, and, on the other hand, to better understand and accept the efforts that still remain to be made so that the improvements we are already beginning to see become structural and allow us to look to the future with more confidence. however, this improvement in the economy, i repeat, does not detract from the relevance of the report and the conclusions and recommendations of mr dos santos' report, particularly as regards the functioning of the energy market and the impact of energy consumption on climate change. we cannot ignore a number of facts, for example, that the energy supply in europe is conditioned by geopolitical factors, which are not entirely in our hands. for example, the low interconnectedness of our gas and electricity energy grids makes us more vulnerable to such geopolitical factors and supply stresses, such as we have experienced this winter and last winter. for example, that low interconnection, together with other national factors, makes it impossible for a genuine internal energy market to emerge, which is to the detriment of consumers who pay more for energy, receive lower quality energy and have less confidence in receiving that energy at acceptable price and quality conditions. or, for example, that the amount of co2 we continue to put into the atmosphere is aggravating the greenhouse effect and the consequences of that effect on climate change. the answer to the problems and challenges to which the report refers, some of which i have just mentioned, is, in my view, to a large extent to be found in the proposals contained in the energy package adopted by the commission last january and which will be one of the main issues to be discussed at the european council on 8 and 9 march. our proposals cover both economic and environmental aspects, safety aspects arising from our energy dependence and proposals to improve energy efficiency. in this respect, i believe they are in line with the main points and recommendations of mr dos santos' report. all that remains is to move from debate to action. the citizens have taken stock of the challenges we face. the heads of state or government at the next european council must now give the political impetus needed to develop a genuine european energy strategy, such as the one proposed by the commission in its proposal and the one this parliament has been insisting on in its report today and in other reports and resolutions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the increase in oil prices, especially in 2006, has naturally led to price increases that have not helped europe's economic recovery. this is undeniable. but it would be a step too far to speak of a recession, as the rapporteur would have liked to see it. this report is a year old and i would like to thank mr dos santos very much for including our contributions in the report which is now being presented. that means that we have eliminated all differences and acted in accordance with the realities. we need not heated debates on this subject, but a sober analysis. the increase in the price of oil has naturally led to certain increases in production costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the competitive position of the competitors was therefore equally affected. the price of oil is calculated in dollars. i would like to thank the commission for its work on the proposal for a regulation on the european central bank. it must be borne in mind that a rise in the price of oil offers oil companies the prospect of increased profits. this in turn leads to more developed areas, increased supply and ultimately lower prices. we've seen that in the last six months. if we had a more peaceful situation in iraq, if the uncertainties in iran were removed and if the oil from the caspian sea were flowing, the situation would also look better in the medium term. how can we better shape our energy supply in the future? this will be discussed shortly, and an objective analysis will help. europe is heavily dependent on fossil fuels - of which there are few in europe - as we know. the development of renewable energies is therefore desirable. however, expansion at any cost has the same negative effects as rising oil prices, because the end consumer pays for these new technologies. and then the money is missing from the member states' coffers for other areas. we need more investment in research and development to make renewable energy more competitive and marketable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you look at the development of the chinese economy, especially the automotive industry, china will need as much energy for cars in 2030 as it is producing today. this means that we need new technical possibilities.
member of the commission. madam president, due to the late addition of this item to the agenda, my colleague mr mccreevy is unable to be here today and i shall present his considerations. i wish to begin by thanking the committee on legal affairs, the committee on economic and monetary affairs and, in particular, the two rapporteurs mr lehne and mr klinz for their excellent work on this file. the compromise package that is now on the table contains very effective solutions to the problems that we have identified, without imposing excessive burdens. these problems, which led the commission to submit its proposal, were in principle very simple: at the moment shareholders do not receive information on general meetings in time, they face restrictions on trading their shares for a certain time period ahead of the meeting if they want to vote and they often have to go in person to general meetings, even if those meetings take place in another member state, as there are no effective rules on representation and distant voting. together with parliament and the council, we managed to find simple solutions to these simple problems. however, we cannot stop there. in particular, the committee on economic and monetary affairs pointed out, in its opinion of november 2006, other issues that need to be addressed if we want to make the general meeting work efficiently and if we want to further improve the corporate governance of european companies. we have already identified stock lending as something we should look at more closely in the context of the future commission recommendation on shareholders’ rights. we agree that another important issue here is to clarify the role and the duties of financial intermediaries. in today’s financial world, investors depend heavily on intermediaries to provide them with information and voting services if they want to exercise their voting rights. this point has also been stressed by delegations in the council. the commission has already undertaken to examine this question thoroughly in the impact assessment to the future commission recommendation. i think all the parties involved agree that this issue is too important to address without having examined all available opinions and without having carried out a full assessment of the possible consequences. you might ask why we are considering using only a recommendation in order to tackle these problems. the reason is that the practical processes that are relevant in this context are constantly developing, also due to the constantly improving technology. we do not want to set the current situation in stone, but wish to leave enough flexibility for adjustments. the commission recommendation will give us this flexibility. my colleague mr mccreevy therefore confirmed last month, in a letter to the chairman of the committee on legal affairs, our intention to address this issue, together with others, in the context of the work on the recommendation. i hope you share our view that this is the right way to render the provisions of the draft directive even more effective in practice.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as mr almunia has already said, this is a very important project. it is a question of deepening the european internal market, and that includes the possibility of exercising property rights across borders in the european internal market. the legal committee has unanimously approved this important project. we have reached a consensus with the council that if this plenary follows the vote of the legal affairs committee, the council will decide accordingly, so that we can reach a conclusion in a reading here in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement of december 2003. the key issues dealt with in this directive were once the issue of the representation of shareholders in general meetings, i.e. the exercise of the right to vote not by the shareholder himself but by proxy voting or by intermediaries, namely by people acting on behalf of the shareholder. the european union has had very different regulations on this, some of which were very restrictive. the compromise reached at the end provides that, in principle, surrogate representation is possible, but must be carried out in a transparent manner, and that member states may also prohibit it by national law in the event of conflicts of interest. a second complex which has been of importance has been the question of the right to question. the problem with the right of inquiry is that there are very different national traditions, and above all very different legal consequences, possibilities of challenge and similar points linked to these traditions. this ranged from a member state where questions are asked but not answered to the possibility in another member state that questions must be answered correctly and if they are not answered correctly, even decisions of the general meeting can be annulled. the commission has therefore decided to make a further contribution to the development of the community's energy policy, in particular by introducing a new energy policy, which will be based on the principle of the free movement of energy sources. a number of issues commissioner almunia spoke about this have not been resolved definitively in this directive. this is partly due to legal systematic reasons, for example the legal relationship between the deputy and the deputy. this is not the case in a directive on company law, it is part of the law of the treaties, and that is why it was agreed between the council and parliament to deal with this in a separate recommendation, in a separate legal act. the same applies to the subject of languages. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but after the negotiations, it was felt that this was systematically better regulated in a recommendation than in this specific text, so that this question must also be resolved in the separate legal act. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank very warmly my co-rapporteur, mr klinz, the shadow rapporteurs from both committees involved, and especially mr medina in the legal affairs committee, with whom i have been working closely, the two chairmen, mr gargani and mr berès, as well as the austrian, finnish and german presidencies, which have made a major contribution to the success of this project, and last but not least the european commission, which has been very effective and very helpful in helping to deal with the problems.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the number of shareholders holding shares across borders is increasing, but the level of participation in general meetings of shareholders holding shares across borders remains unsatisfactory. this should be changed and improved by this directive. the aim is welcomed and shared by all sides, and that is why i, as rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, expected relatively simple and short negotiations. reality has taught me better. the specific features of the 27 member states in the field of company and civil law, and in some cases considerable cultural differences, have made negotiations between the commission, parliament and the council long and difficult, and have ultimately allowed only minimal harmonisation. but there is some very concrete progress, as mr lehne has already pointed out. the ban on shares is abolished, crossborder voting rights are liberalized and electronic means are allowed. these measures will certainly make it easier for the shareholder to vote at a general meeting in the future in the case of crossborder shareholding. however, key problems have not yet been resolved by consensus. the commissioner has also addressed these. in particular, the definition of shareholder and the role of intermediaries in crossborder custody chains have been, i regret, removed from the directive. the issues of the equity loan, the language to be used and the special situation of investment funds were also excluded. it is in these areas that minimum harmonization would be required to create a genuine european culture of action. i am glad, however, that the commission is willing to take up this matter in the form of a recommendation. the agreed provisions give member states a great deal of latitude, and we will probably have to live with regulations which differ considerably from one member state to another for many years to come. i hope that the approach of minimum harmonization which has been adopted does not risk diluting the whole project. it will be only in a few years' time that reality will show whether attendance at general meetings will actually increase appreciably and thus achieve the main objective of the directive. this would certainly be a great gain for corporate governance.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank everyone for their contributions and support in this rather difficult project. not everything has been done to one hundred percent satisfaction, but it can never be with such a difficult compromise. but we have taken a significant step towards making it easier for shareholders in europe to exercise their ownership rights. in europe there is never a big step towards the final goal, but a series of small steps. the same is true of shareholder rights. i would like to conclude by thanking you and not taking any more time to speak.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes) colleagues, you always insist that we start the vote on time, but it's in your hands! please settle down and take your seats.
we can exceptionally allow the commission to speak again.
member of the commission. mr president, i think that the commission is prepared to do all it can to consult throughout 2007/2008 year on the new guidelines for 2008 and 2010. whether this necessarily requires a minimum of five months or not, given parliament’s internal procedures, is not for the commission to say.
normally, that's a reporter's job. what is the rapporteur's view?
we express our deep sympathy and condolences and we must do everything within our legal system to bring the murderers to justice. our solidarity goes to them personally and to their families. we remember the murdered with a very deep and profound feeling. (applause) - before the vote on amendment no 19, i should like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept amendment no 7 on the subject of the use of the euro.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
madam president, if it was as you said, we will take note of that. we'll check it out and then we'll put it in the minutes.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
a writer. the commission is not what good are bilateral talks if there are no concrete results? are they a cover for inaction or contributions to at least build trust? the european parliament rightly calls for the resumption of the dialogue between the representatives of the dalai lama and the chinese government, which was last held a year ago. the agenda includes the reduction of repression, an end to human rights violations and concrete measures to guarantee the tibetan people an independent cultural and religious life. the dialogue was launched in september 2002. it's been blocked by the chinese side for 12 months. the reasons are the same: preconditions would have to be met. the dalai lama is not interested in better relations and is seeking tibetan independence. that's just wrong. for years, his holiness has been concerned not with a state of his own, but with the autonomy of tibet. there are also good examples of such a legal status in the eu. the epp-ed group, like almost all the other groups in the house, will stick to four positions: first, an eu special representative for tibet must be appointed. it is not enough to deal with the issue on the margins of the eu-china dialogue. secondly, we want the commission to make tibet an integral part of the eu-china framework agreement. please inform us members of parliament of progress and setbacks. thirdly, the council should report on the state of play of the china-tibet dialogue in its annual report. fourthly, the european union should develop common strategies with its partners in the world, in particular the united states. i very much hope that the international wish - my colleagues have just expressed this - that china should finally resume these talks with the tibetans will be understood by the representatives of the people's republic. you're so busy trying to get good news ahead of the 2008 beijing olympics.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a point of order: we have often complained that the council is not present at our human rights debates on thursday afternoons. i would like to point out that the german presidency is here today in the form of its commissioner for human rights, mr nooke, who himself was once a civil rights campaigner in the former gdr. this is a small sensation. we are happy about this and i would be happy if we could urge in the trilogue that this becomes a firm tradition, that the presence of the council - it is here today as an observer - becomes a firm part of these human rights debates on thursday afternoons in the future. anyway, thank you, gunter nooke, for coming here today. (applause from the centre)
a writer. the commission is not we have a very good resolution on the situation of refugees from and in iraq. however, this resolution omits the central point, namely the causes of the flight of people into and out of iraq. the central cause is the occupation of iraq, and especially the way in which the occupation of iraq is being carried out by us troops, british troops and also other troops from eu countries. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe. despite germany's restrictive asylum policy, iraqis are now the largest group of asylum seekers in germany. within iraq, according to unhcr, 1.7 million people are displaced. two million are in the neighboring states. these people are fleeing because there is a war situation. the bloomberg school of public health and johns hopkins university have produced a study that was published in the new york times and the washington post that says the number of people who died from the invasion and its aftermath, beyond the normal mortality rate, between march 2003 and july 2006, is as high as 650,000 iraqis. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the study also states that after the invasion ended, 31% of the victims were killed by coalition forces or airstrikes. the risk of violent death is 58 times higher than before the invasion, according to johns hopkins university. i am not going to go into detail. these figures show that the occupation in iraq is wrong and must finally be ended. the whole support for the war by a number of eu countries, including germany, must finally be ended. it will then be the case that there will be no more people having to flee, as is the case at the moment and as was very rightly mentioned in the resolution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i support this resolution, not least because it makes a strong case, at least in some of its annexes, for the rights of persecuted and threatened christians in iraq. we have to imagine that the christian communities in what is now iraq are probably among the oldest in the world. they survived for 1,300 years in a muslim-majority environment - and this has to be said with reference to muslims - but today, in a time of massive western presence in iraq, they are threatened. this is because iraq was created as a state of art after the first world war, and today it is breaking apart, and the parts are trying to homogenize themselves through nationalist self-assurance, and of course the minorities are particularly threatened. there is one laudable exception, and that is the kurdish part, which must be emphasized. but i appeal to the shiites and sunnis to continue the great tradition of tolerance of their ancestors and to restore to the christian communities in iraq the protection they have enjoyed for over a thousand years. i would like to ask the commission in particular to take a strong stand for the rights of christians, because who else but us should do so?
a writer. the commission is not guinea is a country with great potential for wealth, as has already been said, through fishing, agriculture and raw materials. the fact that it is still suffering from abject poverty is due to the terrible mismanagement, the dictatorship, the miserable state administration that has existed there for decades, and i am very grateful to mr matsakis for pointing out that the sékou touré mentioned by mr meijer was one of the worst dictators in the history of guinea. unfortunately, we are also faced with conditions that are far from acceptable, and that is why we must appeal to the current interim president - for that is all he can be - to use the short time he has left to make an orderly transition to democracy and the rule of law. but he can only do so if he does not appoint a puppet prime minister, as he has done now, but if he actually heeds the demands of the trade unions and the democratic movement and sets up a broad transitional government, including opposition forces, which does nothing but restore public order and prepare for free elections so that a history of terror and dictatorship can finally give way to one of democracy and prosperity.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 15 february 2007.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have the following questions for you and the secretary-general of this house. i have already heard last thursday that a solemn ceremony was held here this afternoon before the start of this plenary session in memory of the victims of terrorism. i assume that this was done in a proper dignified setting. i have no doubt about that, i think it's as important as the ceremony itself. what i am not prepared to accept, however, is the way in which such a thing is being prepared and carried out. i would also like to say to you, mr secretary-general rømer, that i will be following closely your statement at the conference of presidents last thursday. i therefore wish to inform the house of the following: as chairman of my group i have not received any prior information about this event. i do not know whether colleagues from other groups were informed as chairmen, and i certainly was not. i was told that my question to the secretary-general last thursday - and you gave the answer to the secretary-general - had been prepared in close consultation with the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs. i was satisfied with that on thursday because it was an explanation i could accept. i have since thursday learned that neither the vice-chairman of this committee, who comes from my group, mr lambrinidis, nor the coordinator of my group, mrs roure, had a word of information about this event. i think parliament deserves to be able to take part in such an event. i would have liked to have been there as the group chairman. i do not think that parliamentary affairs, initiatives of this kind, which take place in parliament without the european parliament's participation, make sense. i therefore ask that next time such events, which are useful as i said, be better prepared and carried out.
i personally, as president of the european parliament, assumed that the procedure would be the same as last year. we'll check to see if the procedure was different back then. i myself chaired the sitting from 3 p.m. and intended to chair it until 3.30. the meeting was then prolonged because the young people - all of whom were very sympathetic - and the group chairmen did not keep their speaking time as strictly as they had been, and the president was unable to ask the young people to finish their contribution after four minutes, so that i was unable to attend a very important meeting at 3.30 p.m. the whole thing went on until just before 4:00 p.m. the house was represented by mr cavada, chairman of the committee on the internal affairs, who chaired the sitting until 3 p.m. the rapporteur was mr sifunakis, who is a member of your group, and commissioner špidla was present. my recommendation is that we review the procedure from last time and this year. my request for the coming year is that we increase transparency next time. but there is one thing that is not possible: the plenary chamber was filled with 580 young people, and if we invite all our colleagues, we will not have enough room. but we should think about how parliament can be represented in an appropriate way by the political groups. can we agree on that basis?
i am not going to go into detail. let me make a comment on the subject we have just discussed. yesterday, sunday 11 march, was the third anniversary of the terrorist attack in madrid on 11 march 2004, which killed 192 people. the day of this terrible event became the european day of remembrance for the victims of terrorism. it is a day to remember and to show solidarity with the victims of terrorism and their families, with those who have lost their lives and with those who are still suffering the psychological and physical consequences. it is a day to raise awareness, because after the madrid attack, the london bombings on 7 july 2005 resulted in further casualties in the heart of the european union. and all too often, people are killed by fanatical violence all over the world. terrorism is an attack on freedom and democracy. terrorism is the attempt to create facts by blind violence and in the process destroy values, the values on which the european union and its member states are founded. terrorism is a crime that must not be tolerated under any circumstances. it is one of the greatest threats to the security, stability and democratic values of the international community and is also a direct attack on our citizens. the european union and the international community must fight terrorism in all its forms and with determination. there can be no justification for terror. we cannot afford to be weak in the fight against terrorism. for that we need a strong and united europe. in order to combat terrorism effectively, we must go beyond close cooperation alone and develop a coherent common policy which meets the needs of citizens and at the same time reflects our understanding of human rights and dignity. i would therefore like to reiterate that the european parliament considers guantánamo to be incompatible with our european legal order. we must ensure that we fight terrorism together in accordance with the values we defend. on this day of remembrance for the victims of terrorism, we must reaffirm our determination to combat terrorism in all its forms and to take the necessary measures to combat it. we must not forget the victims of terrorism. we owe it to them to see their killers punished. however, a determined policy must also work towards the prevention of terrorism and terrorist attacks on the territory of the european union and worldwide to the best of our ability. this is in line with the principles of the international community and our legal order. on 5 march 2007, daniele mastrogiacomo, an italian journalist and correspondent for the newspaper la repubblica, was kidnapped in afghanistan by the taliban. he has done nothing but report on the situation in the country. i would like to express the solidarity of the european parliament and my own solidarity with the family of daniele mastrogiacomo and with the newspaper la repubblica. i would like to express the same solidarity on behalf of the european parliament to the german citizen and her son who were also abducted in iraq in february. we urge those who are holding daniele mastrogia as well as the kataib siham al-haq organization which has kidnapped the two german citizens who have been living in iraq for a long time to release them immediately and unharmed. we cannot be blackmailed by force. i would ask you to remember the victims of terrorism. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 8 march 2007, in accordance with rules 130 and 131, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday:the pse group would like to see no motions for resolutions tabled at the end of the debate on the oral question to the commission on community measures to provide crossborder healthcare. who would like to state the reasons for the motion?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can only repeat what my colleague mr goebbels has already said. we are currently preparing a comprehensive report in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which also includes opinions from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on legal affairs. it would, of course, be sensible not to prejudice the work that is going on in our committee by adopting a resolution which we would have to put together in three days, when we have been preparing a good text for several weeks, one which hopefully will have broad support. i think it would be quite sensible to discuss this today - we can accept that - but not to adopt a resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have seen in iran, in connection with international women's day, that demonstrations of women who had gathered for this occasion were violently ended. in recent weeks, the pressure on women's organizations in iran has increased overall. that is why we believe that it is more timely and urgent to discuss this than the issue proposed for nigeria.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
mr titley, it is not often that the president of parliament is thanked for something he has done. i appreciate it very much and it encourages me to go on.
mr solana is coming to brussels for the mini-conference.
that concludes this item.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am speaking, of course, on behalf of my group, but first and foremost as the person who prepared the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i can only agree with and support the rapporteur, mr joel hasse ferreira, when he says in his report that services of general interest are not only an important element of social and economic cohesion but also make a significant contribution to the competitiveness of the european economy, and this is particularly true of the social services of general interest. it is not my job to assess the proposals of mr joel hasse ferreira in detail, but my job is to draw attention once again to what we decided at the time on the basis of my own report on the white paper on services of general interest here in parliament. i can only confirm that the things we have prepared in this respect in the committee have also been taken up by mr joel hasse ferreira in a way that satisfies us. services of general interest shall be of high quality, accessible and widely available, and provided at optimal prices, taking into account social balance and on the basis of a lasting security of supply. of course, services of general interest can be provided under fair conditions of competition, subject to the principle that private and public undertakings must be treated equally. the rules of the market must not, however, impede the provision of public services. the best way to ensure this is through targeted measures and sector-specific rules, with continuous evaluation of public services in the european union needed to identify problem areas for proposals. we have already asked the commission to act in this area with a view to greater legal certainty and, if necessary, to draw up a proposal for a sectoral directive. i can only emphasize this once more.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the legal committee has tried, in an intensive debate, to present in a consistent way the legal problems arising from the services directive and also from the health services, on which the commission will probably also be commenting. the committee on employment and social affairs, which is in charge of this matter, has accepted our proposals in the main, for which i am very grateful. it was important to us to note that the legal affairs committee has serious doubts that european regulation can bring about a real improvement in social services for local citizens. the same applies to the question of efficiency. in any event, any scheme envisaged by the commission must have a clear legal basis. in our view, article 16 of the ec treaty is not relevant. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights considers that this is a classic case of the principle of subsidiarity. the structure of social services in the member states is very different, with a traditional development and a completely different financing. the legal affairs committee subsequently decided that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is for the member states alone to define what constitutes social services of general interest. this important point has also been included in the report. it follows clearly that the commission cannot claim to have a power of definition by invoking, for example, different interpretations of the terms , for example, by the case law of the european court of justice . i would like to draw your attention to paragraphs 12 and 16 of the explanatory statement, which are contradictory. we have recognised this contradiction and have therefore not incorporated it in the text of the report.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. social services are instruments for achieving the objectives of social policy. they serve the common good and they help to ensure that the basic social rights of everyone are fulfilled. they are thus the social pillar of european society. this is why, and because of their special nature, the european parliament excluded social services from the services directive a year ago. the commission's attempt in this communication to bring these services back under the laws of the market is the wrong way to go. the commission's hesitation to call for a legislative framework for the provision of these services is damaging to the european union. we need a commitment in the form of legislation that social services are part of the common good, and we need it now. all members who now consider such a commitment necessary should not join the commission's vague compromise but should support the european parliament's decision in the context of the white paper on social security and thus support our proposal .
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, congratulations to the rapporteur. social services of general interest are a core element of social europe. they are part of the public welfare system and are designed to ensure that anyone who needs help or support receives it, regardless of where they live or what their income is. social services must not only be accessible and affordable to all, but also of a particularly high quality, because - as has already been said - they are personal and serve the common good. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. they need special protection and a clear legal framework for competition. i would like to take the example of elderly care to point out that demographic change is presenting us with ever greater challenges. in our society, after all, everyone should not only have the right and the entitlement, but also the security of ageing with dignity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the vast majority of eu companies have committed themselves to social responsibility: to social and environmental responsibility, to the protection of people and the environment, to the safety of production. they support cultural and church institutions, sports and associations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this was defined in the ep report of 2003 and in the establishment of the multi-stakeholder forum a year later. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a detailed reporting system is expected, if at all, only from large enterprises. smes, which account for over 90% of all businesses, cannot afford this. they simply lack the human and financial resources to do csr in detail. the shadow rapporteur of my group, mr philip bushill-matthews, has succeeded in defusing the howitt report, which my group in the committee on employment and social affairs rightly rejected, by compromise. i consider it a success that the requirement to make the award of public contracts conditional on compliance with social and environmental clauses has largely been removed. it is also necessary to be able to obtain a public contract without ecologically correctly planted flower pots in front of the manufacturer and without alternative food on the menu of the factory canteen. there are problems with paragraph 11, which calls for the establishment of a central csr coordination office, and with paragraphs 39 and 55, which support the appointment of a csr officer. i am against the extension of corporate responsibility and csr accountability. the conductor's controls are unacceptable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say: principis obsta resist the beginnings! the european parliament should call for binding elements, and legislative action by the european commission is not far off.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's roadmap for equality between women and men 2006-2010 is finally being debated in plenary today. as the author of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i cannot understand why such a long period has elapsed between the initial submission and the debate in the committee on employment and social affairs and today's debate in the plenary. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we have agreed in committee that despite the great progress made, women are still very much discriminated against. this is particularly true of women in the context of the effects of globalisation and demographic change. i would like to draw attention to two aspects. if more than 40% of employment in the eu is so-called atypical employment, then it is mainly women who are affected. i very much welcome the fact that commissioner špidla has pointed out that, particularly in the case of selfemployed people, it is necessary to examine again to what extent the conditions can be changed for women. i would also like to point out that the proposals on reconciling family and work contained in the report are fully supported by us in the committee.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this month the european union celebrates its 50th anniversary. while the european union has set milestones for equality in the past, it has been idle with the gender roadmap. the term 'action roadmap' cannot hide the fact that this mass of public spaces is not a way forward for europe's women. the eu commission has no answer to the pressing issues of pay inequality, discrimination against women in social and pension systems and the lack of representation of women at decision-making levels. instead of ambitious proposals for further legislative initiatives, there is only poetry. we in parliament want more than poetry and lofty words, we want real legislative initiatives. it is not possible for the european commission to take a break from gender equality policy. we cannot simply accept that, despite extensive european legislation, women in europe earn on average 15% less than their male counterparts. in germany, there is even a 26% wage gap. the european union should finally say how it intends to eliminate this wage inequality, what it will do. we also need a european back-up for reconciling family and work. it's long overdue for that. the eu commission has not made any proposal on how it intends to actively support the women and their families. we need a european framework directive to improve the reconciliation of family and work. it's not enough to talk about family, women. we need action, not empty words.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for almost 50 years, equality policy has been written at european level. however, despite all the political efforts to achieve equality both at european level and in the member states - and this has been mentioned by many speakers - we have not yet succeeded in reducing the disadvantage faced by women. it is also right that the european union does not stop putting its finger in the wound. violence against women, lower pay for women in equal work, the problem of women's poverty, the disadvantage of women in retirement, etc. - all topics which, in my view, need to be addressed and taken up again and again. i also welcome the commission's roadmap on gender equality and would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs sartori, for her excellent own-initiative report. i do not want to hide the fact that i cannot agree with all the details of the report. the report criticises the fact that the european commission has not put forward a new legislative proposal. i must say that i am very glad that the commission has not taken action on this. it has announced that it will review, modernise and, where appropriate, revise the existing legislation. but it is also in the commission's interest to take account of the division of competences between the member states and the european union in this area, and not to introduce new proposals in its timetable. i very much welcome this and cannot endorse mrs breyer's criticism in this respect. the report also calls for the introduction of quotas, for example in research. i reject that too. in my view, the only criterion that should apply to research is excellence. i cannot therefore support this request. there are other provisions which i cannot deal with now because of lack of time, but which also encroach on the competence of the member states, for example when compulsory paternity leave is required throughout europe. that's something i don't like. i hope that tomorrow, when we vote on the report, some of the motions will be rejected so that at the end of the day i can give my consent to this report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i now speak as the shadow rapporteur of the epp-ed group in the legal affairs committee. the commission's recommendation on the transnational collective management of copyright and related rights raises a number of problems. neither the rights of artists nor the diversity of the european music supply are sufficiently safeguarded. the impact assessment is incomplete. the appeal is inadmissible. recommending three options at once is not really solving the problem. my colleague lévai has clearly stated the problems in her report. the compromise before the plenary aims to tackle these problems. in particular, this means: no to territorial restrictions on use, yes to fair and controlled competition in the area of collective rights management, yes to the modernisation of the online music market, but not at the expense of cultural diversity and the protection of artists, yes to transparent collecting societies. in this context, it is necessary to criticise the commission for attempting to circumvent the rights of parliament by means of a recommendation. the commission is therefore invited to submit a proposal for an appropriate legal instrument under the co-decision procedure. the basis must of course be a comprehensive consultation involving all those concerned. in view of the forthcoming decision in the cisac case, i would like to make a clear appeal to the commission not to remove parliament's co-decision powers by soft law or collusion. i would ask the house to approve the report by mrs lévai.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i also remember the last parliamentary term, as does mrs wallis. parliament has always had its problems with collecting societies. i refer to the echerer report, in which we called for concrete legislation by the commission on the transparency and regulation of collecting societies. i refer to the zimmerling report, where this has played a role. i refer to the discussions on the directive on copyright in the information society. it is therefore entirely right that the commission should be thinking about how to deal with this problem. it is not possible in the long term to have 27 monopolies and no single market! we do not want these 27 monopolies to be replaced by a few oligopolies. this has been made very clear in the discussions we have had in the committee. i would like to make it clear that collective management is not an end in itself. they're a necessary evil. they are there when they are needed, as the intermediary between authors and users. where it is not necessary - and such cases are conceivable - there is no need for a collecting society. the conclusion i have drawn from the numerous talks and hearings - and also from the lobbying activities - is that the matter is much more complicated than we originally thought. there are many stakeholders who have changed their minds during the process. the big recyclers were suddenly in favour of liberalization because they saw opportunities for an oligopoly on the market. many users suddenly changed their minds and were suddenly against extreme liberalization because they saw more disadvantages than advantages. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is obvious that we must take care that the situation cannot remain as it is. but we expect the commission to put forward a concrete legislative proposal and then we can discuss it intensively with all the possibilities that parliamentary consultation offers. that is the crucial message of this report and that is what we expect from the commission. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council and the commission are very much in agreement. the council, commission and parliament have reached agreement on the revision of the directive on the prudential assessment of acquisitions and increases of holdings in the financial sector after only six months. the rapid work of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the targeted trilogue negotiations will make it possible to conclude this dossier in the spring, if ecofin agrees on 27 march. this is clear proof to the citizens that europe is capable of acting with 27 member states and of taking important decisions quickly, and this in the context of a complex dossier, as the commissioner has just described. i would therefore like to begin by thanking all those involved for their good cooperation. i would like to thank in particular the shadow rapporteurs, john purvis and joseph muscat, the chairman of the committee, pervenche berès, and all the colleagues who have helped to ensure that we can probably adopt the directive tomorrow in a block vote across the political groups. i would also like to highlight the constructive cooperation with the representatives of the mediterranean countries, who were convinced that their concerns about the fragmented shareholder structure in their countries had been taken into account. finally, i would like to thank the finnish and german presidencies of the council and the commission for their expertise in the project and for their smooth cooperation. we need this revision of the directive. in the past, more than once, individual companies have failed to acquire crossborder holdings or to make whole acquisitions. the reason for this was that there was no clear legal framework requiring supervisory authorities to apply uniform audit criteria and therefore a uniform procedure throughout europe. this is about to change. the draft directive presented by the commission last autumn aims to provide greater legal certainty, clear predictability and clarity in the decision-making process. this is a matter on which all the parties concerned agree and which we have therefore supported. all three institutions - the commission, the council and the parliament - believe that we must move in this direction and that we need maximum harmonisation to create a real level playing field for all market players in all member states of the european union. however, there were of course - how could it be otherwise - differences of opinion on one or other point, especially as regards the period of examination or also as regards the alternatives to action when a negative decision is taken, i.e. when a wish to acquire a holding or even to take over an entire company is rejected. but in the end, the negotiations were able to resolve these problems and we were able to reach a consensus. in future, therefore, crossborder consolidation will be facilitated increasingly in the area of credit institutions, insurance companies and also investment firms. this is mainly due to the following four reasons: first, supervisors will in future have a maximum of 60 days to decide on an increase in participation. the examination period may be interrupted only once for the purpose of requesting additional information, namely for 20 days in the case of a potential acquirer from a member state of the european union and for 30 days in the case of a third country acquirer. such a distinction between eu and non-eu companies takes into account the fact that the supervisory and market structures in third countries are often not identical to those in the european union and that, therefore, the european authorities are not always fully informed about the situation in these countries. therefore, it is necessary to allow supervisors more time to request and evaluate specific information. at the same time, these third country companies also require more time to prepare, translate and submit such information. both are ensured by differentiation of the interruption period without infringement of wto rules. secondly, the five test criteria are clear and conclusive. in doing so, member states shall have the possibility to define, on the basis of these criteria, the specific list of information to be provided by the prospective acquirer. this shall take account of the nature of the acquisition of the holding and the nature of the potential acquirer. this means that in the case of simple and transparent increases in shareholdings, less information is required than in the case of complex, possibly cross-sectoral, acquisitions. two years after the entry into force of this directive, the commission is to check whether the various information requirements in the member states are relatively similar or whether there is a divergence here, and then perhaps the commission will have to intervene and make sure that we do not have divergences. thirdly, the supervisory authorities are encouraged the commissioner has pointed out to cooperate closely. at the same time, it is clearly stated that the final decision is taken by the supervisory authority of the target company. in the event of a negative vote, the authority with final jurisdiction must also state the reasons for the refusal. publication of the reasons is not mandatory but may be required of the undertaking whose acquisition intention is rejected. it is also possible for individual member states to publish the reasons in accordance with national law. fourthly, in order to check compliance with the directives, the commission wanted direct access to the documents. we refused. conclusion: the directive will bring more legal certainty and clarity in the future. i am convinced that this will be another step towards cross-border consolidation and thus towards an increasingly integrated internal market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr klinz. today's result is a very positive result, with the commission, parliament and council working together accordingly, with the aim of achieving a quick result. the rapid achievement of a result was necessary because protectionism is becoming more and more widespread in the financial sector and in other areas in the national states, according to the motto: each member state is happy when a company from its own country can invest in another country and take over operations there, but alas, a company from another state comes to its own country. then all the books are drawn. we have seen this in the financial sector, just as we have seen it in the energy sector with the endesa-e.on case. it was therefore necessary to act accordingly. i am glad that we were able to agree on criteria and deadlines. i am thinking, however, of the role played by the supervisors in the discussion. the supervisors, who have already contributed relatively little to clarifying how to accompany financial market integration from the supervisory point of view, in the basel ii discussion. i am not speaking specifically for a european supervisor, but the way in which the supervisors in europe have designed this is that they are primarily interested in sticking their national borders. that is why we should take the initiative on the european side, on the commission side, and invite the supervisors to a corresponding dialogue. i would like to mention one more aspect which mr purvis has already mentioned. it was also about the hedge funds, and i agree with him completely that they should not be demonized. i would like to see discussions, in particular with the other parts of the world, about the commission's role here. that it should simply evaluate what it does in other areas, how to deal with hedge funds, as the statements of the bundesbank, the european central bank on the stability of financial markets show that it should present something about it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr špidla, there is a lot of talk in your field, and perhaps you can give mr mccreevy the same ambition.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. health is limitless hopefully! health services should be equally borderless, i.e. available everywhere to every citizen of the union at a high quality standard. we are now at the beginning of a debate, not the end, and in that respect a controversial debate is both useful and desirable. health is not a commodity and the internal market is merely the space in which these services take place. these services require special regulation, with a focus on quality assurance by providers, patient safety, drug safety, product safety of medical devices, failure and error regression and centres of excellence. the patient to be protected is given special consideration, since he is the weaker one, and often the one who is left behind. we are fundamentally in favour of patient mobility and provider mobility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the healthcare sector is able to compete with the rest of the world in the field of healthcare. the 27 different national systems all have problems, and so i see no chance at the moment for a european health insurance scheme. i don't think that's very useful either. again, the reimbursement system is not an open market but a system of state-directed reimbursement. in my own country, with its extremely complex system of payment to beneficiaries, the question of domestic discrimination would immediately arise if the system were opened up, since benefits are not paid openly but in caps. i still think it is appropriate that the main responsibility for this dossier should lie with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and not with the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
deputy writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i can follow directly what mrs berès has said. the two oral questions are essentially about the same thing. the takeover directive is what it is because there is no one share, one vote in europe. you have to say it clearly. it is also because it was not possible at the time, during the discussions on the takeover directive, to implement the principle of one share one vote by consensus. i would have been prepared to do so at the time, but there were no majorities in this house or in the council. the report now presented by the commission on the implementation of the takeover directive is, in my view, being misinterpreted in the public debate. it describes nothing but the fact that member states have, on the whole, properly implemented the directive, including making use of the options offered by the directive. that was the very purpose of this legislation. the commission will present its first report on the application of the transposition directive in 2011/2012 as laid down in the transposition directive. we are then at a point where we can draw conclusions from this, whether what we have done here, setting a benchmark and leaving it to market forces, has been successful or not, or whether it is then necessary to think about further legislation or not. but not until 2011 or 2012, not now, when the first concrete report on the application of the directive is available. we - parliament and the council - have, by the way, already made our position clear in a number of the subjects discussed today - including the transposition directive - as legislators, with a large majority in each case. we have said that the so-called breakthrough rule, which is the decisive benchmark, should cover all pre-bid and post-bid defenses. there have, of course, been some exceptions. we have left out the aspects which do not constitute barriers to adoption, on the basis of simple calculation examples and simple mathematical figures. the first is the so-called preference shares, which have been exempted from the breakthrough rule from the outset. why would you do that? first, because preferred stock is compensated by paying the holders of those shares a higher amount of money than others. secondly, because they are limited by company law to a maximum of 50% of the capital, so they can never commit more capital than the actual ordinary shares with voting rights. we also excluded the french double voting rights from the breakthrough rule for similar reasons. firstly, because it is not a question of voting rights for a particular class, guaranteed in perpetuity, so to speak, but of rewarding longterm investment and, after a certain period, automatically converting those voting rights into ordinary voting rights. secondly, because in the light of the breakthrough rule, when 75% is reached - that is normally the quorum for a breakthrough to be achieved - it is irrelevant whether it is double voting rights or simple voting rights. i always have a majority in the general meeting. that is why we have excluded these voting rights. but we have included in the breakthrough rule multiple voting rights and voting rights limitations because these are real barriers to takeover. we have the particular situation here, too, that we have a disconnect between ownership on the one hand and domination, or voting majority, on the other. we considered it justified to make this subject to the breakthrough rule where companies or member states make use of this option. i would like to make it clear once again - mrs berès has also mentioned this - that we have been very clear in the szejna report that we want to see the market forces unfold first, that we want to see how this directive works and that when the commission has presented the first report in 2011/2012 we want to decide whether further steps are necessary. i have now heard that the commission is toying with the idea of launching a recommendation on this subject. i want to be quite frank about this: i'm not very enthusiastic about this for two reasons. the first point is that we in parliament are generally increasingly sceptical about the application of such a soft law. the commission is also running the risk that parliament will take up such a recommendation in the form of an own-initiative report and then write something quite different into that own-initiative report than what the commission has envisaged in its recommendation. if that happens, the recommendation is worthless, because a recommendation only has effect if it can be assumed that the legislator is prepared to support such a regulation later in a further procedure. but if he says no, the recommendation is worthless. the second reason is that i am not entirely clear as to what is to be regulated in such a recommendation. we have adopted in article 10 of the merger directive extensive transparency rules requiring all companies to disclose fully all existing obstacles to takeovers. these are strict transparency rules. i wonder what else the recommendation is going to regulate. there is another reason for this request, and that was also mentioned in the text of the legal affairs committee's request. we are naturally interested in the commission's assessment of the development which has occurred as a result of the advocate general's closing arguments in the volkswagen case. this was the first time that the advocate general had to deal with a case which was not a classic case of golden shares, but one which involved restrictions on voting rights and other rules. but he considers it to be in breach of contract, much like a golden share. we are not going to be able to do that. doesn't that automatically remove all obstacles? it would be interesting to have an assessment from the commission.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the principle of 'one share, one vote' is extremely attractive in the context of so-called shareholder democracy. deviations from this idea could - as the commissioner responsible, mr mcgreevy, feared - undermine transparency and restrict shareholder rights. however, a deviation does not necessarily have to be harmful, as it can lead to more competition and innovation and also accommodate the different interests and behaviours of different types of shareholders. the commission now plans to publish a recommendation on the proportionality principle between ownership and control in the autumn, based on the results of a comprehensive study. mr lehne has already pointed out the problematic nature of this recommendation, and i think mrs berès has rightly suggested that a study commissioned by iss, the european corporate government institute and sherman & sterling may not be as objective as this case actually requires. i therefore call on the commission to submit concrete proposals only after a comprehensive and objective examination of the situation in europe and after a critical evaluation of all the experience gained with the takeover directive. it is important to consider the advantages and disadvantages of all mechanisms which deviate from the principle of 'one share, one vote', whether it be the pyramid structures in italy, the preference shares in germany, the double voting rights in france or the a and b shares in the nordic countries. we must carefully distinguish and balance between the desire to make shareholder control proportional to ownership on the one hand and the desire of companies for contractual freedom, stable shareholder structures and sufficient freedom of action on the other. in any case, it must be ensured that any deviation from the principle of 'one share, one vote' is transparent. the shareholder has the right to know whether or not he owns or acquires shares which restrict his participation in the direction of the company and his control over management.
i declare the 2007/2008 session of the european parliament open.
we'll check it out and brief you accordingly.
the next item is a statement by the commission on the 2008 annual strategic plan.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i am indeed very pleased to present you with the commission’s annual policy strategy for 2008 and i am of course looking forward to a valuable political discussion. let us first take a quick look over the context for the next year. in two weeks, we will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, and the berlin declaration will be adopted. the year 2008 should be an opportunity to look forward. we hope that the roadmap to be agreed by the council in june will create the conditions for achieving a clear and constructive institutional settlement next year. this is necessary because europe needs reform. it would also allow us to send a positive signal before the european elections. meanwhile, we will see further consolidation of the union. in 2008, we expect to see a number of member states joining the schengen area. we also hope that additional member states could adopt the euro as soon as they fulfil the criteria. on the future financing of the european union, and as agreed by parliament and the council, in 2008 the commission will be working to present a review of the budget. in a few months we will launch a broad consultation to allow citizens, stakeholders and those involved with institutions to express their views on the priorities of the eu and the resources needed to address them. the strategic objectives defined by this commission at the beginning of its mandate remain valid: ‘prosperity, solidarity, security and a strong and open europe in the world’ still summarises the core ambitions of the commission, and we are happy to see that both parliament and the council have backed us. in the modern world, a number of highly important issues are not confined to just one or the other of the strategic objectives. they need to be taken forward together across policy areas, and i see three of these as being particularly important for 2008 in the aps. firstly, energy and climate change. the very positive results of the european council last week with clear, binding decisions were built on the proposals presented by the commission in january which brought fresh ideas and policy directions in europe. now we must deliver. whilst we hope to have practical proposals on energy on the table in the third quarter of this year, much work will be needed in 2008. the key elements of the energy package must be put in place. a well-functioning internal market, a vibrant, renewable sector, energy efficiency and solidarity and interconnection will all be taken forward. we will also push for strong commitments by the eu and global stakeholders to reduce co2 emissions beyond 2012 when the kyoto protocol expires. secondly, the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs remains the main instrument for promoting a more prosperous, environmentally responsible and socially inclusive europe. we are making good progress in partnership with the member states. next year we will reflect on how to press ahead with further reforms. following on from the single market review and the social reality check which will be presented this year, the commission will launch a series of initiatives to make sure that the single market continues to deliver on its economic promises and that it allows citizens to reap the benefits. thirdly, migration in its various facets is a key challenge for the european union. properly managed labour migration can make a positive contribution to our economies and to our societies and we will present two draft directives in this field. we also plan to propose further measures to achieve a common european asylum system by 2010. we will also need further action on preventing illegal migration, combating the ruthless business of human trafficking and protecting our common external borders. let me now come back to the strategic objectives and give you a few examples of other key initiatives. as concerns prosperity beyond the continuing consolidation of the internal market, ‘greening’ the transport sector will be a key theme, with action on urban transport, legislation on nitrogen oxide emissions from aviation and on emissions from ships. the commission will also take preparatory action to ensure the european institute for technology is operational as from 2009. in the field of solidarity, the commission will present a health check of the common agricultural policy, which will pave the way for the future cap. based on social stocktaking and the mid-term review of the implementation of the social agenda, the commission will propose initiatives to promote solidarity and access of citizens to rights and opportunities as well as action to tackle discrimination outside the labour market. we also intend to propose a new eu action plan on drugs and initiatives to tackle child poverty and protect children using the internet. to promote security and freedom, we plan to propose new measures for managing our external borders and to set up a european surveillance system to help member states to deal with growing flows of illegal immigrants. to support the fight against organised crime and terrorism, we expect to see a centralised data base of fingerprints becoming operational and the commission will also launch a policy to tackle violent radicalisation. ensuring internal and external coherence and fighting for a europe with a strong voice in the world will be another key area for action. we are ready to play a strong role following a status settlement for kosovo and we will continue the accession negotiations with croatia and turkey. we will pursue negotiations on new agreements with russia and ukraine and develop our ties with key partners.as regards trade policy, alongside continued efforts to deliver the doha development round, action will centre on the global europe external competitiveness agenda. the commission will also work closely with member states and partner countries to make sure that the european consensus on development makes good progress and strengthens our partnership with the african union. i would like to say a few words on better regulation, which, as you know, informs all the commission’s work. i am convinced that the commission and parliament have a mutual interest in cooperating even more closely than today in this area. cooperation means agreeing on common priorities and on strategic choices. the commission’s strategic review on better regulation of november 2006 set out our political priorities in detail, taking into account the views expressed by the european parliament in its april 2006 part-session, which was devoted to this issue. if need be the commission will be ready to come back and discuss better regulation in more detail with parliament. let me also emphasise a novelty in our strategy for 2008. following the example of the work programme for this year, communication priorities are an integral part of our policy strategy, focusing our messages on a limited number of issues that are of key concern to people, and communicating these clearly reflects and contributes to our overall communication strategy. finally, i would like to underline the criteria that we applied for ensuring an allocation of staff which matches our policies. additional resources will be used exclusively to cover needs due to enlargement, whereas all other needs will have to be served through internal redeployment within the commission. the presentation of the annual policy strategy marks the beginning of a process leading to the adoption of the commission’s legislative and work programme at the end of this year. i feel strongly committed to this process, even though it could still be improved. together we should make the dialogue between the committees and the commissioners more political. in the resolution adopted last year, parliament expressed its intention to involve the political groups more consistently and at an early stage of the procedure. i hope that this will be the case. a political, frank and constructive dialogue between our two institutions on where europe should put its political weight and where it should invest its resources in the next year is of major importance, so let us work together for the benefit of europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. dear commissioner, i'm glad you could come after all. we're glad you're here. we have no reason to be overly critical, since the presence of our colleagues is inversely proportional to the importance of this project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a number of colleagues will be commenting on the details. the epp-ed group is not only prepared to support the commission's work in parliament politically in principle, but also to follow it in the objectives it set out at the beginning of its mandate: prosperity, solidarity, security and freedom. i can assure you that, on the basis of these objectives, you will also be developing the right policies for the areas on which we must work now: growth, employment, climate change, energy demand, the knowledge society, consolidation of enlargement. we'll have to argue about the details. i myself would like to make a critical point, commissioner. they announce a common european asylum system for 2010. the treaties open the way to minimum standards in these fields, but not to a harmonised european asylum system! i ask you to strictly check where you leave the level of the contract here. i'm at a crossroads. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. in the introduction you say that these measures are in line with the expectations of the citizens of a europe of action. they paint a picture of a union capable of meeting the challenges of globalisation. they paint a comparatively rosy picture of this european union as a whole, especially as regards the expectations of the citizens. if that is so, i ask you: why did the people of france and the netherlands reject europe so flatly? the treaty itself barely gave rise to it, hardly anyone read it. there is a deep unease about the european union, and if you look at that unease, there is one source of it - not the only one, but one - and that is the european bureaucracy. it is a question of the european parliament's right to decide on the future of the community. this feeling of being locked in a cage is provoking rejection, leading to growing abstention in elections and, as the process continues, giving impetus to political forces which are really anti-european, and that is something to be concerned about. we in parliament must also ask ourselves how long we can claim to be the legitimate representatives of the european peoples if the voter turnout is steadily falling below 50%. one of the sources of discomfort is european legislation. that's why this is the right time to talk about it. the commission itself, madam commissioner, speaks of an ambitious process for better regulation. how true and how supportive! you have our full political support! but so far you've only mentioned the target: 25% reduction. they do not mention the instruments by which we are going to achieve this goal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european commission has a key to regaining the confidence of its citizens. we need a new culture of subsidiarity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. commissioner, give me a sign! less central legislation is more for europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. in the debate on your paper, we in the group of the european people's party felt that the commission had found its way, had followed it with great confidence, had stuck to the policy fields of action it had defined at the beginning of its work and had presented them in a way that gave the impression that there was a real force for good at work here. this is already clear from the first sentence of the work programme, where you say that the policy areas in which the commission should take action would be widely accepted. we welcome that. we welcome this confidence and we also welcome the commission's clear direction. but our wish remains the same: we want more leadership. and to keep the course in perspective, we want you to sail harder with the wind and get faster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. above all, we lack a clear word on the future of europe. you dedicate three lines to this future of europe in the 24-page working document, but the question of where we want to go, what our common 'progress' should look like, is not answered, and this strategy for a work programme does not even attempt to answer it. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the acceptance of the citizens is also there - and mr nassauer has already said this - but unfortunately not in the way we would like. it is therefore important that the commission should make a statement on this. we want the commission to be the spearhead of the movement which demands clear guidelines for the future of europe. their strategy is to deliver results. we like that! results are great for determining where you are actually becoming visibly active. but we have the problem that national politicians - usually from the government - always take credit for successes, while europe has to take responsibility for failures or unpleasant consequences. the council's good results are the most recent example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this respect, the strategy of delivering results is a very ambivalent one. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. for example, you speak of a renewed consensus on enlargement. we can't tell that. you also want a common central database for fingerprints. there is no consensus on this either. this is particularly surprising to us, given that commission president barroso announced at the beginning of his term that he would be a champion of civil rights. such a database is the opposite of what he announced at the beginning of his term. my colleagues will continue to look at the various policy areas. i would like to mention one more fundamental structural point which we have always raised in previous discussions. we would like you to indicate, in the interests of greater proximity to the citizens and of making this document easier to use, what exactly legislative initiatives are, what does not have anything to do with legislation, what new initiatives are and what follow-up measures are, so that we can really know what concrete steps to expect in the coming year. we want to involve the citizens, of course! the commission is committed to communication. we think it's right! the more interactive this can be, the better. if you manage to conduct these policy debates not only in the european parliament but also in the national parliaments, in the interests of greater visibility of the policy of results, then an important step would be taken towards clarifying where the policy in the common europe actually comes from.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. i would also like to address the question of how europe really wants to get back to its citizens, and to do so, i would like to discuss the subject of climate and energy policy. i believe that the special role and task of europe has rarely been given as much attention as in recent weeks, when everything has been focused on the big issue of climate protection and energy policy, the biggest environmental issue. i was very pleased with the outcome of the summit, because although there is still a lot to be negotiated in the small print, the summit has achieved what the citizens expected after the sensitization campaign by al gore or the stern report. the summit's achievement was to convey to citizens the impression that we are embarking on a paradigm shift, that we are taking renewable energy out of the niche and that we are also looking at energy efficiency in a very different way in the future. the most important thing now is to fulfil the expectations we have raised in europe. commissioner, may i say this? i'm not so sure about that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that has been called into question again. mr verheugen has opposed this progressive trio of commissioners piebalgs, dimas and kroes as he always has. i am not so sure that commissioner barrot will be able to implement the summit results properly, and i also have misgivings - i expressly state this here - about commission president barroso and his announced energy policy revolution. commissioner, you are the right person to make sure that the debate on the european constitution, for example, has a better future by ensuring that the high expectations we have raised as european politicians in recent months are not disappointed again. the negotiations on the small print of the summit declaration are only just beginning, and i see some powerful, influential men on the european stage, including verheugen and barroso, who, despite chirac's departure in france, are building up a kind of old boys network that is opposed to the viability of these summit decisions.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. to be frank, i do not find the commission's communication on strategic planning for 2008 particularly convincing. why would you do that? on the one hand, it is like a kind of warehouse catalogue, so that the emphasis is not sufficiently clear. secondly, there are many points which are highlighted as so-called key actions, but they are very vague and do not say anything. i will give you a few examples. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the coordination of family and working life, legislative initiatives to strengthen consumer protection, the continuation of initiatives to implement the eu's maritime policy, and so on. but what you want to put forward is not a concrete initiative to strengthen consumer protection. so, you don't know the truth often enough. on the social situation in the european union, you announce a 'social reality survey' and at the same time you announce imaginary initiatives to promote access and solidarity. i have to say, i was rather surprised to read that statement here. do you really think that you can convince the citizens of the european union, and in particular of the possibilities of europe, to relieve people of their fears about the future, if you admit in this paper that you are practically ignorant of the social reality in the european union? my colleagues nassauer and swoboda have already raised this question. i don't think you're going to win back the citizens. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very important one. better regulation does not just start with a much more precise strategic planning: impact assessments are important and indispensable, and it will indeed be interesting to discuss the results of the external evaluation of the impact assessment system. i would stress, however, that better regulation does not necessarily mean deregulation or minimum regulation. in conclusion, madam vice-president, i would like to ask what is to be done about the announced withdrawals of legislative proposals. in my report parliament had asked that the commission's annual legislative and work programmes should specify exactly which legislative proposals the commission intends to withdraw. could you briefly explain how this is planned to continue until 2008?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. in the eu27, few policy-makers claim to be as transparent and as planned as the eu itself. if you look at these programmes, including the one from 2008, you will see a long face. we also read the ritual announcement of better regulation for 2008, but programmes live on implementation, not on announcement. from the budgetary control point of view, 2008 will also be a disappointing year. we lack management measures and concepts on how the commission intends to implement the promise made in 2005 by commissioner kallas to obtain an absolute statement of assurance on the eu budget from the european court of auditors by 2009. i would remind you of the error rate in the structural funds of 44%, which has now been established again for the 2005 budget. the commission has already made this promise. we would have expected the commission, at least in its own area of direct management, to remember this promise and take the necessary steps. 2008 is the last year in which the commission can make a difference. it is also the first year in which the recipients of eu subsidies have to be disclosed. we would have expected a sentence on this milestone in eu aid policy. or does silence mean that such a disclosure will not take place? because there is no single model, no single line, on how the obligation to publish should be implemented by the member states and by each eu fund. and there's no idea what to do with that information. we must think, the commission must think, about the evaluation and the consequences of this information for the various policy areas. the commission's 2008 work programme is a disappointing document, far behind its own announcements.
the commission has already done so. it is regularly said - and you have said it - that europe should focus on the essentials and that we want to bring europe closer to the citizens. in the end, we in europe - and the commission in particular, of course - are judged by the extent to which words are followed by deeds. i'll take out the area of red tape. this is the commission's headline. i look back over the last few weeks and see a new commission strategy on health and safety at work, presented for the next five years, particularly with regard to smes, which are identified as the most affected and which will certainly be subject to the appropriate regulations in the near future. i call the consumer protection. there is now a green paper which sets out the relevant guidelines. i think it is good that the commission is thinking about where red tape can be cut. commissioner, the best way to reduce bureaucracy is not to create new bureaucracy. the commission has failed in this in recent years, in a very serious way, by repeatedly proposing new legislation. on the other hand - and it is astonishing how resistantly the commission is ignoring the words of parliament - we are showing what insurance intermediaries will have to document in future when they negotiate products with consumers. but if you are just suggesting that we should look at the hedge fund issue without calling for regulation - the european central bank under jean-claude trichet here in parliament and the central banks around the world are regularly addressing the risks accordingly - there is nothing in your plan for 2008. your colleague mccreevy will not take action where there are real risks. it gives the impression of refusing to work. we are not asking for regulation, but simply for an analysis of things. the strategy paper does not mention this, and nothing is being done in this area; that is astonishing. it reminds me of a clientelist policy for certain regions of the world.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, i would like to speak about transport policy. she's a stepchild of this house. the committee on transport, together with the committee on the environment, is responsible for most legislative acts, but transport always comes last. but traffic is important. without a transport infrastructure that meets the needs of the people, we will not have growth and we will not have jobs, because you can order everything on the internet, but you cannot get it delivered on the internet. if you want to have growth in trade, especially between old and new countries, you need transport infrastructure that meets your needs. the commission's approach in the strategy paper is therefore correct. i would point out that we should not demonize traffic in the first place. now, there are these things that people say, "no one should fly anymore". madam vice-president, you know that if you want to get from the northern part of sweden to the southern part of sweden, you can either take the train for hours or you have to take the plane. it is possible to fly, because we can reduce the pollution of air transport considerably by means of sensible policies. if we could get the member states to introduce sensible airspace controls, we could reduce co2 emissions from aviation by 8 to 12%. the member states must do something about this. we should remind them of that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the transport services provided by the member states. i am always a little sceptical about whether urban transport is our subject, but the vice-president is absolutely right about one thing: a large part of the pollution comes from inner-city transport. we need to discuss this in more detail. that's why we're on the same page, madam vice president. but without transport you cannot achieve growth and employment in the community.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the work of your rapporteur, mr el khadraoui, and the members of the committee on transport, the european parliament has today the opportunity to make its voice heard on a draft agreement which i consider to be a major one between the european union and the united states. this is the aviation agreement reached ten days ago between american and european negotiators in brussels. in less than ten days i will submit this draft agreement to the transport ministers of the european union for political decision. you are speaking at a crucial moment and you can thus make the voice of the european citizens heard, not only in the council but in the american institutions themselves. these negotiations have been long and complex. four years of negotiations since the court's rulings in the so-called open skies cases. eleven negotiating sessions that have caused waves and air holes. but this long negotiation can help us to strengthen the transatlantic relationship and bring positive elements to the lisbon strategy. what is within our reach is the possibility for a european airline to fly from any point in europe to any destination in the united states, freely, and regardless of the nationality of the european airline. today, if you want to fly between brussels and washington, you can only borrow an american airline or a belgian airline. since the sabena went bankrupt, with no belgian carrier on this route, you can only fly to washington with an american company. that is why the court of justice has declared these bilateral agreements illegal. these agreements discriminate against our european companies on the basis of nationality. with this agreement, we are changing the game. the united states recognizes the european nature of our companies. too often we forget that not everyone flies to the united states. sixteen countries have open skies agreements, but eleven do not. you cannot fly directly from the baltic countries to the united states and the number of routes to the united states from spain, ireland and greece, in particular, is severely limited. we will thus open up new possibilities for these countries. but from the outset, the balance of the agreement between europe and the united states has been a problem. in november 2005, the council welcomed the progress made, progress in the approximation of european and us rules on state aid, competition, security, progress in terms of market access, but the council also called for more access to the us market. i want to explain why, at the end of the last round of negotiations, this agreement is more favourable to europe. i shall not go into the details of the freedoms of air transport, the fifth freedom, the seventh freedom, as they result from the 1944 chicago convention. they're important, but they're technical. any technician will see that in terms of these so-called freedoms, the european union has got more than it has given. i shall concentrate on the problems of ownership, investment and capital of airlines. first, the investment in the united states. the us law, which congress will not be reviewing any time soon due to intense political controversy, states that a foreigner cannot own more than 25% of the voting shares of an american company and cannot control it. under both of these constraints, we have secured for european investors the right to hold more than 50% of the total capital, without, however, this being presumed to constitute control of the company. and we've gotten the u.s. authorities to process investments fairly and quickly, expeditiously. we have also secured the right for european investors to enter into franchise agreements. lufthansa will be able to affix its name, its brand, its colours, sell its know-how to an american company for domestic transport in the united states. this is not a theoretical arrangement. the virgin group, which freely sells its books or cds in new york, is currently trying to sell its brand to create virgin america in san francisco. the operation has encountered serious obstacles. the commitments made by the united states clarify what can be done precisely for this type of investment. compared to the american reform, which failed in 2006 after strong opposition and which some of you have followed closely, the rights we have negotiated cannot be called into question. these new rights are etched in the marble of the agreement and will not be subject to unilateral changes in the united states. that's it for the investment in the united states. secondly, the investment in europe by the americans. since the united states cannot change its 25% rule, we have reserved the option of limiting american investment in european companies to the same amount. it's a rebalancing move. thirdly, investment by europeans in third countries. under the current rules, we cannot invest in and control a third country company without risking its rights to trade into the united states. example: virgin invested in nigeria. the united states disapproved of virgin nigeria's operations to the united states because the company no longer has the proper nationality. with our agreement, the united states will no longer be able to object to community investment in european countries outside the european union, for example switzerland, or in eighteen african countries. there will be no retaliation from the americans on this point. they will accept that these third country companies may be the object of significant investment by european companies. fourthly, the investment of third countries in european companies. the united states will not be able to interfere with community airlines flying to the united states if european countries such as iceland invest in their capital. this will help to attract european investment to our airlines and to standardise the air transport industry. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is more balanced and more balanced for the benefit of europe. we must not miss this first step, because it is a matter of taking a first step before taking a second step towards the ultimate goal of an open space for aviation. certainly, some critics of the agreement fear that there will never be a second phase because the united states will have won in every respect in the first phase, which is not true. you are right to ask for a mechanism to ensure that we can move to the second stage: well, i have got it! the negotiations will start in january 2008 at the latest. if we do not reach a second stage agreement by mid-2010, we may suspend elements of the agreement. beyond retaliation, i am personally convinced that the dynamic we will unleash will overcome the last remaining resistance to ownership and control. we did not do the internal market all at once. we did it in three stages, but in less than ten years. so, ladies and gentlemen, these eleven negotiating sessions have really made progress. what is at stake behind this agreement? that's in five years, between six and twelve billion euros of economic benefit. it is also conceivable that in the next five years, 80 000 jobs will be created on both sides of the atlantic, and that 26 million passengers will have the opportunity to travel between europe and the united states, in addition to the 50 million passengers who already use transatlantic flights. so in five years, the number of passengers will probably go from 50 million to 75 million. these estimates are the result of serious studies. i therefore conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that this agreement is obviously important and can be of great interest to europe. i would like to add that this morning's session will also help me to understand your expectations better, to answer any questions you may have, and i would say again that i am confident that we can take this first step and have the assurance that the second step is now also in sight. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the information i wanted to give you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the epp-ed group warmly congratulates you, your negotiating team and daniel calleja crespo on the successful conclusion of this first part of the important us air transport agreement. but let us also thank the us negotiating team and john byerly, because it was not easy for him to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion. we 're sure of it . the agreement will finally create a large transatlantic air transport market for the benefit of airlines and passengers. european airlines can now fly to the american market from all parts of the european union without national restrictions. at the same time, we are also living up to the judgment of the european court of justice in 2002. the restrictions on london heathrow airport, which are contrary to community law, will also have to be lifted. the open skies over the atlantic will also surely result in cheap deals for air passengers. the agreement is balanced because the commission has succeeded in opening up market access for european airlines in the usa for the first time. it could have been more in the opening, but still. we have new rules on ownership and control, licensing and trademark policy. i think that these advantages make it justifiable to say that this is now a balanced agreement. i think it is even more important that we have set up a joint committee with the participation of the business community, because this can prevent the americans or the europeans from taking unilateral security measures in the future to the detriment of airlines and passengers. the epp-ed group calls on the german presidency to ensure that this compromise is quickly approved by the council. that would be symbolic. i would like to thank our friend el khadraoui for the excellent resolution which i believe we will adopt tomorrow by a large majority in the spirit of what we have discussed.
in writing. i reject the howitt report because the most essential characteristic of corporate social responsibility is voluntariness and not leadership. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. i am very concerned about this subject and therefore reject the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to join in what avril doyle said. i was present the whole time, but i did not have my card with me and i would like to point out that i also voted in favour of the roll-call vote.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery poses perhaps the greatest potential risk to international security. that is why the european union, in its 2003 comprehensive strategy against weapons of mass destruction, underlined that a multilateral approach, including both disarmament and non-proliferation, is the best way to maintain security and international order in this field. in this context, the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is and remains the key cornerstone of the global nuclear non-proliferation regime. the european union supports the npt provisions and endorses and supports measures to further strengthen them. the european union has already undertaken extensive internal preparatory work with a view to the first meeting of the preparatory committee for the 2010 review conference of this treaty. we are determined to continue to play an active and constructive role in the discussions to be held in the context of the preparatory conference in 2007. our aim for the european union is to start the review cycle in a constructive climate. the european union therefore expressly supports the plans of the designated chairman of the first preparatory committee, ambassador amano of japan. the european union considers that this review debate must take account of all three pillars of the npt, namely nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, in a balanced way. only such a balance will allow the forthcoming cycle of the review of the npt to proceed successfully. but this is the precondition for joint decisions by the review conference to strengthen the treaty. the common position of the european union adopted at the 2005 review conference remains the basis of these balanced eu positions. the early entry into force of the nuclear nonproliferation treaty has always been an important concern of the european union. this concern has been heightened by the north korean nuclear test. the european union is already contributing to supporting the nuclear test-stop regime by adopting joint actions which are also intended to further strengthen the verification system of the treaty. the european union also calls for the early opening of negotiations on a treaty prohibiting the production of fissile material for explosive purposes. such negotiations should be conducted without preconditions. the conclusion of such a treaty would be an essential step towards nuclear arms control and disarmament. it would thus make a decisive contribution to the implementation of the positions adopted jointly by the community at the 1995 and 2000 review conferences. the full and committed implementation of all the obligations of this treaty remains an essential prerequisite for consolidating and strengthening the provisions of the npt. in this context, particular attention should be paid to regional aspects. as you know, the european union is actively involved in the efforts to resolve the crisis over the iranian nuclear programme. we are convinced that a solution can only be reached through diplomatic means. for this reason, the european union played a key role in shaping the very broad offer to iran in june 2006, and - i stress this - it was supported by the united states, russia and china. the european union will continue to work for a peaceful solution to the crisis. the european union is aware of the risks which may arise from the further spread of enrichment and reprocessing technology and therefore supports the development of multilateral guarantees for the supply of nuclear fuel. initiatives in this field can help to convince countries interested in developing nuclear energy that there is no need to develop their own nuclear fuel cycle, so that they voluntarily abandon it. the european union will intensify its efforts to maintain and further strengthen the provisions of the non-proliferation treaty in order to meet the challenges identified here. this includes the discussion, largely initiated by the european union, on strengthening the treaty in view of the consequences of withdrawal. it is regrettable that the 2005 review conference on the treaty was unable to agree on a substantive final document to address the most pressing challenges of the treaty. this experience must be an additional reason for the european union to put all its efforts into a successful review process in 2010.
member of the commission. mr president, president-in-office of the council, honourable members, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and among them nuclear weapons, is potentially the greatest threat to european security. nuclear weapons proliferation is headline news, not least when it concerns iran and north korea. on iran, we are still at a delicate stage. we noted with concern dr elbaradei’s recent report that iran has not yet suspended its enrichment-related activities and does not appear to have taken the necessary steps to ensure compliance with un security council resolution 1737. the european union’s external relations council has just formally adopted a common position calling for the necessary firmness to be shown by the international community. we are serious about the double-track policy which, as mr gloser has just outlined, has been cemented also by the recent ‘three and three’ talks in london. this means that we may aim at maintaining dialogue and enhancing our contacts with civil society, as well as also exerting pressure. discussions in new york are now focusing on moving beyond the existing sanctions towards a new security council resolution. on north korea, we welcome the results of the six party talks held in beijing on 13 february 2007. the eu is consulting with the six, offering the best means by which we can assist in this process, while remaining committed to the implementation of security council resolution 1718. we support very strongly the current mission of dr elbaradei to north korea aiming at the return of the iaea inspectors as part of this accord and i share his assessment that this is a crucial confidence-building process. i hope that the shutdown of the yongbyon plant goes ahead by mid-april. the 1970 treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt) established the non-proliferation regime as we know it – with its fundamental balance between nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful use of nuclear energy. from it then followed several aspects which are of great importance to the european union, namely the principle of regulated nuclear trade, nuclear safeguards and the international atomic energy agency, which monitors compliance. strengthening the effectiveness of the npt will make the world safer. states parties should be encouraged to work towards this aim with a view to the upcoming review conference. while the headlines have focused on the regime’s difficulties, we should not underestimate its successes. south africa, argentina, brazil, south korea and libya, for example, have all decided to forego nuclear weapons programmes. my recent visit to india also gave me an opportunity to stress to the indian leadership our hope that india will come much closer to the npt regime and join the comprehensive test ban treaty. we are looking forward to civil nuclear cooperation with india, once the necessary preconditions are met. these developments should also increase pakistan’s willingness to cooperate with the international community in the non-proliferation context. nuclear non-proliferation is an area in which the commission makes an important contribution. since 1957, the euratom treaty has provided the commission with wide-ranging responsibilities. the commission’s safeguard activities are closely coordinated with the iaea, freeing up its resources to be deployed to more troublesome regions of the world. we are also playing our part in ensuring that the eu’s nuclear export controls are as robust as possible, supporting the dual-use regulation 1334 from the year 2000. we also assist third states in enhancing their export controls and combating illicit trafficking in nuclear and radiological materials. the commission is also a major provider of assistance for international non-proliferation efforts. one important example is the g8 global partnership against weapons of mass destruction, where one billion euros have been pledged for assistance in the former soviet union, 400 million of which have already been spent. for more than 25 years the commission’s joint research centre has been working closely with the iaea, providing it with scientific and technological support. as i said, in the future we will do more. under the new instrument for stability we will have resources to continue and strengthen work to enhance our security against nuclear proliferation threats. in closing, let me take the opportunity to thank this parliament once again for the support it has given the commission in setting up a new generation of non-proliferation assistance programmes through a series of pilot projects. (applause)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. one of the undeniable successes of the european union is the security gains that this continent has made through integration. the work of reconciliation which europe has put into the world has led to our being a zone of peace in which military action between the european union's partner countries has become almost unthinkable. this is the basis on which the philosophy of a european union security policy must be based, namely that we should export this concept of peace, which we have implemented internally, also to the world in which we live. the socialist group is basing its approach to security on dialogue, diplomacy, disarmament, prevention and sustainable and fair development. all these elements are connected. sustainable conflict resolution, which combines these five elements, is only possible within the framework of a comprehensive approach. the european union and nato have a role to play in this, but others also have a role to play, such as russia. so when we talk about disarmament initiatives - i'll come back to that in a moment - we have to ask ourselves: is russia our partner or our adversary? i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the question of disarmament is one of the central questions in the coexistence of peoples, and the question of the reliability of the parties to the treaty is a crucial one. if we look closely at the review of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty today, we find that there is a very shameful balance sheet: since it was signed, nuclear weapons have been spread far more widely in the world than they were before. this cannot be because the signatory states or some of them have taken this treaty seriously. the opposite is true. many of those who signed the treaty later failed to comply with it and, contrary to the agreements, spread nuclear weapons or the technology needed to produce them throughout the world. it must be reversed! the basic consideration in a contract review is that one is committed to contract fidelity. the renewal of the treaty therefore requires, above all, that those who sign it also comply with it. it is not just the united states of america that has not done so. a world without nuclear weapons, ladies and gentlemen, may sound like a pipe dream. we do not have a nuclear-free world, quite the contrary! we have a debate on the spread of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. i can only say: congratulations! we have just heard from you what efforts are needed to prevent nuclear energy from being used for military purposes in the civilian sector. we build more nuclear power plants all over the world and then we are surprised that we have not one, but many irans in the world. the review of military nuclear policy includes a critical examination of its civilian use. the german presidency has the opportunity to put this issue on the agenda of both the council and the g8. it is also necessary to question critically the missile defence system which is now being installed in the czech republic and poland at the request of the american government, following a bush administration philosophy which is hardly to be surpassed in its inconsistency, which is demonstrably misleading in many instances and which is estimated to cost 58 billion dollars. i have a recommendation: before we as europeans again allow ourselves to be divided because we can write off a unified foreign and security policy if we do not reach a common conclusion on such an issue in the eu before 58 billion dollars are installed for missile defense systems, it is better to invest this money in sustainable development. this is a greater contribution to peace than the deployment of a dubious missile system. i would like to say this in connection with the non-proliferation treaty and its review, mr president, because these things go together. and i hope that mrs merkel will make good on her promise to put this issue on the agenda of both the g8 and the eu. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i thank you very much for your comments, mrs ferrero-waldner and mr gloser. i would like to begin by thanking all the colleagues in the other groups for having taken up the green initiative in this debate, and especially for the fact that we are going to adopt a compromise motion in these days in which we all find ourselves. i think that this is a good and important signal, particularly in view of the current situation. the commission has already outlined the various areas of concern. let me just take a quick look back. twenty years ago, on 8 december 1987, the world was shocked by the signing of the inf treaty, a concrete disarmament treaty in the field of nuclear threat during the cold war. where are we today? unfortunately, there have been some setbacks, as both kofi annan and henry kissinger have pointed out that the fight against nuclear proliferation and the efforts to disarm it are on the verge of final failure. what can we as europeans do in this situation? do we have the confidence to address issues at the multilateral and international levels where we can hope for progress? is it not time to use the forthcoming nuclear supplies group meeting in cape town on 16-20 april to oppose the proposed deal between india and the united states? what kind of signal is this to the other countries? let 's say: builds nuclear programs and weapons outside the npt? you'll even be rewarded and supported by the united states. what kind of signal would that send to iran? i say this very deliberately, because i have a decidedly different view. we are in a dead end with iran, which we have helped to create. everyone involved needs to get back out of here, or there's gonna be a military response. we want to participate in a follow-up. we shall be voting on thursday for a delegation to go to vienna to actively accompany this process. i hope that together we can create a survival signal for these important nvv provisions.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons is under threat in many ways. the latest news: the newspaper süddeutsche zeitung of march 3rd said that the united states is planning new nuclear warheads. we are critical of that! in the eu state of the uk, prime minister blair wants to spend 30 billion euros on modernising the uk's nuclear forces. tomorrow is the vote in the british house of commons. this is nuclear arms buildup and it threatens the npt! the german presidency must express itself critically on this. we support the protests against this nuclear programme. the us is planning to deploy a missile defence system in the czech republic, poland and the caucasus, and nato wants to participate in this with its own missile defence system, according to a report yesterday. the german minister of defence, franz josef jung, wants to put the entire missile defense system under nato's control. the council and the commission of the eu should finally make their criticisms of these missile defence plans quite clear. i have submitted a statement together with two colleagues against this missile defence system. at the same time, preparations are being made for war with iran. this is also the view of wesley clark, the former supreme commander of nato. criticism of iran is hypocritical when you have nuclear weapons and are modernizing them. the npt says that all nuclear weapons must be disarmed. there are no good nuclear weapons. disarmament is the order of the day!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons was a great achievement. but we find that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction continues. we must also regret that the review conference has failed for the time being. that is why this preparatory conference in vienna is so important. it is also of the utmost importance that the european parliament should have a say in this matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that we will reach the same result in the vote. after the collapse of the soviet union, we all agreed that the era of the balance of terror was now over. but today, there is a danger that this balance of terror, while no longer existing at the global level, is beginning to reappear at the regional level. we must do everything together to prevent this from happening. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a matter of the utmost importance at the moment. i would also like to mention another subject which is not directly relevant to this debate but which must be discussed in public, namely the question of the missile defence system. we are currently discussing in europe an american missile defence system and its impact on europe. but what we really need to be concerned about is the security of europe. these iranian missiles that the americans are protecting themselves against are much closer to europe than to america. we are told, for example, that these iranian missiles can now reach southern italy and greece. we must therefore have a general debate on whether we need such a system. if we need such a system, we need it as europeans. we must discuss this too in the european parliament and bring about decisions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also want to congratulate you on your birthday. mrs kuneva, congratulations on your work too. you have just said a very important phrase, namely that the consumer must be at the heart of politics. that is a very important point which i would like to emphasize. if your policy on this issue is to ensure that people are not there for the economy, but rather that the economy and the single market are there for people, then we are on the right track. in this context, i would be very interested to know in what specific areas you would like to take this policy forward. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the commission has already done so. i would even sing you a birthday song, mr president, but i think i'd better not do that, given the short time we have. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner, because your involvement in the competition council is, of course, a demonstration that consumer protection policy in the european union is a cross-cutting task, which is equally important to competition policy and internal market policy. i'm very grateful to you. the single market in europe must be a single market for consumers, especially in electronic commerce. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make two points. firstly, while full harmonization as you have proposed may make sense in certain areas, such as electronic commerce, it cannot be a model for the whole internal market. you always need good arguments through a good impact assessment. secondly, we want to strengthen the consumer in the european single market. but i doubt whether collective actions in a system such as that of the european union are the right means. perhaps you could give your reasons for these proposals?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i do not entirely agree with the statements made by the last two speakers. so i'm pleased to say once again that we support your ambitious goals. the mix you have mentioned for different options sounds very good, but we doubt whether it is really efficient, because you are dealing not only with the different concerns of the member states but also with very powerful economic interests. we therefore wish to tell you that your commission colleagues - neelie kroes, günter verheugen, charlie mccreevy, markos kyprianou - have earned the respect of the european public by imposing effective, tangible sanctions in their field of expertise. we'd like to give you this on the way.
the commission's vice-president yes, mr samaras, the commission has made progress, but now we must begin a dialogue with parliament and the european council. we hope that this will lead to the development of the situation as you have indicated. i can answer that, and mr figel will be happy to confirm it in writing if necessary.
the commission's vice-president the commission intends to adopt the communication on the application of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 in april 2007. this communication will be based on the results of an independent study. as regards the draft recommendation of the european ombudsman concerning the disseminated information tools, the commission confirms its position as set out in the reply to question p-140/07 of the honourable member. it has until the end of march to comment on the ombudsman's draft recommendation. in addition, the commission is updating the information resources on air passengers' rights following the adoption of new community legislation in this field. the commission is therefore preparing a new poster on air passenger rights, which will first be submitted for consultation to airlines and national control bodies. the preparatory work began well before the draft conclusions submitted by the european ombudsman. this new updated poster will include information on persons with reduced mobility travelling by air, the list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban in the community and the identity of the operating air carrier. information items considered inaccurate have already been removed from the commission's europa website. i think we are quite on the same page as the european ombudsman in this recommendation.
the commission's vice-president i assure you, mr. tarabella, i'm paying close attention to what you've just said. i myself receive letters from individuals who report cases of non-application of the texts. when we have the results of the audit we have carried out, i will be forced to increase my pressure on the member states, because i would remind them that the member states must now also ensure that the provisions in question are applied. however, you are right in insisting on the need to give practical effect to passenger rights. we have already met the national control bodies on several occasions and i intend to express the commission's determination, with all the necessary firmness, to see the member states progressively take up the matter and provide the appropriate solutions.
the commission's vice-president mr rack, i just said that an audit was requested from a completely independent body to ensure that we have an accurate picture of the site. secondly, we shall see how to mobilise the member states, how to mobilise the airlines too. i believe that the focus of 2007 should be on the effective implementation of passenger rights. i'm making this personal.
the commission's vice-president i am making a commitment to you, mr president, to ensure that this situation, which you deplore and which i deplore with you, can be improved very substantially this year.
the commission's vice-president the paris-strasbourg-stuttgart-vienna-bratislava railway line is one of the thirty priority projects of the transeuropean transport network. from 10 june, a new commercial service will be established between france and germany following the opening of 300 kilometres of new high-speed lines between paris and baudrecourt in lorraine. this section is part of this priority project. the line will be inaugurated on thursday, march 15. the new commercial service will provide four round trips a day between paris and stuttgart from 10 june 2007. this service will be extended to munich when the new timetables are introduced in early december 2007. this service will use the existing line between stuttgart and munich. as you know, the commission is closely monitoring the modernisation of the sections between stuttgart and ulm. in july 2005, it appointed peter balazs as european coordinator for this line, who submitted a first activity report published on 13 september 2007. the coordinator gives particular priority to the stuttgart-ulm bottleneck which must be resolved. in addition, the commission is already co-financing the sections between augsburg and munich, which are due to be partly commissioned in 2008 and partly in 2010. i would like to point out to you, mr posselt, that the coordinator and the commission are following very closely the studies and construction of the line between strasbourg, kehl and appenweyer, which will connect the french and german networks with the kehl bridge, which has been awaited for so many years. i'm rather optimistic. i think we are well engaged and this project, which mr peter balazs is following very closely, seems to me to be on the right track, if i may say so.
i'm not going to tell you. i am not only grateful for the excellent answer, but without you and mr balazs the matter would never have progressed so brilliantly. it's been dormant for decades, and you've really brought some momentum to it. my short supplementary question relates to the mühldorfer spange to salzburg and to the way the work is proceeding between munich and salzburg. the second point i wanted to make is about timetables: for example, there is now an ice early morning service from vienna to munich, and when you arrive in munich, the train to strasbourg has just left. i know you're not in charge of the timetables, but please talk to the railway companies so that these kind of schildbürger pranks will finally end.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. this is a step in the right direction! they used to have veal when the farmer's wife was in bed. that was a "sober calf", as we used to say. it was distinguished by the fact that it was white meat, because the calf had only drunk milk until then. then some came to the idea of confining the animals in such a way that they were kept away from natural food because the meat produced in this way was considered good and expensive. they were then fattened to between 170 and 200 kilograms. these calves continued to have white flesh because they had no access to iron-containing feed. this directive does not change that. however, since this meat was highly prized on the market, this practice was indirectly supported. if you have ever seen the calves trapped in the bays start to move the barriers to get some of what they really need, then you know what i'm talking about. by including the time factor, this is not over, but it is indirectly supporting species-appropriate behaviour. the mother cows are kept in the pasture, and the calves drink milk for several months, but they also eat grass that has iron in it, producing pink or red meat. what is not yet included in the directive, but may be indirectly promoted, is the quality of livestock and their growth process. this is the end of the practice - or at least the beginning of it - of honoring meat from tortured animals, and we're about to get beautiful pink veal from happy animals. this does not mean that the farmer will not get white meat in the weekbed, but then this meat is actually from "sober" calves.
mr president, mr vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to put the debate in a different context, namely in the context of what we discussed this morning, namely the eu-us air transport situation. we agreed this morning that there is a large transatlantic air transport market which we want to develop further. now the question is, who's playing? we have been clear in the negotiations that we want europe to be equal to america. it also means that we must build the european aviation safety agency into an equal partner to the american faa. now, the faa decides which aircraft to repair and which to shut down because they have a great deal of expertise and power in international aviation. the debate we are having today on the extension of easa's remit is to be seen in this context. we must gradually bring easa up to the same level as the faa so that we can also have a partnership between europe and the usa in the administrative field. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but basically i have the question: what equipment and personnel does easa need to have in order to be recognised by the national aviation safety authorities on the one hand - because there are still concerns - and by the faa on the other? if we continue along this path - a gradual, careful extension of easa's responsibilities in terms of staff and personnel so that it can actually become a balanced partner to the faa - then we will have achieved the most for our airlines and our passengers.
i'd like to make an announcement first. you will recall that there is a publication by mr giertych which bore and still bears the emblem of parliament. this has caused worldwide reactions. i investigated the matter as soon as i became aware of it. on 1 march the bureau of parliament unanimously condemned the contents of this brochure in a number of respects. i have opened the procedure under rules 9 and 147 of our rules of procedure. this procedure may lead to the imposition of a sanction. the procedure requires that the person concerned be heard. i immediately tried to reach my colleague giertych, but it was not possible because his office had been empty for several days. but then we made contact by e-mail so that we could prove to ourselves that we had made an effort to make contact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second part of my statement was sent to mr giertych by several technical channels at 7.30 p.m. yesterday evening. i shall now give you my conclusion. this morning at 8.30 a.m. this communication was also sent to the bureau of parliament, to the group chairmen and to the institutions of which the honourable member is a member - the committee on foreign affairs and the delegation for relations with the united states of america. i now present the second part of the contents of my letter to the members, which relates to yesterday's conversation with mr giertych: 'on this occasion, i deeply regretted what is objectively a serious breach of the fundamental rights, and in particular, the dignity of human beings, to which our institution so strongly adheres. on this basis, i have decided, in accordance with the procedure laid down in rule 147, that a reprimand should be imposed on you, which is the first of the measures referred to in the aforementioned rule. the plenary, together with the other relevant political bodies of the house, will be duly informed once you are notified of this penalty. during my presidency, i intend to safeguard both the freedom of expression and the standard of conduct of members, as well as the honour of this house. as i stated in my inaugural address to the plenary on 13 february 2007, tolerance and respect for others are important european values, which are at the heart of my political priorities and to which the european parliament is deeply committed. i trust you will understand that the european parliament, which thrives on lively political debate and unfailingly condemns all forms of xenophobia, should under no circumstances be associated with the views published in your brochure. and then my signature. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the berlin declaration. i would like to make a brief statement, however, at the request of the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs and the members of that committee. the declaration on the future of europe, to be adopted in berlin on 25 march 2007, could be an important milestone towards a stronger and more forward-looking europe. the conference of presidents has asked me to represent the european parliament in the negotiations on the berlin declaration. i did and am doing so in close contact with and constantly informing the bureau of parliament, the chairmen of the political groups, but especially the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs and the members of the committee on constitutional affairs, and i shall be meeting the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs and the members of the committee on constitutional affairs for the third time today to discuss these questions. the debate in the plenary today is aimed at discussing the subject with all members and with the council and commission. it would also be very important for me to take some suggestions and hints from today's debate for the discussions with the german presidency which are still to come. the berlin declaration, which is still under negotiation, is to be divided into four chapters. the european council in madrid in december last year stressed the importance of the european union's role in the world, and called for the establishment of a european union with a stronger political will and a stronger political will. the second chapter is devoted to the main features of european unification and cooperation: the equal rights and obligations of the member states, and transparency and subsidiarity as fundamental elements of the community method. the third chapter is to be of crucial importance in relation to our core values on which european unification is based. in particular, it should be emphasised that the human person, whose dignity is inviolable, is at the centre of all political action. i also stressed this at the summit dinner with the heads of state and government, where we discussed this last thursday evening. the human being is the starting point and the goal of politics. the principle of solidarity should also be an important feature. it is an indispensable element of the european unification process and, in the present view, a present and current challenge in the energy sector. finally, a fourth chapter will identify the challenges of the future, such as energy policy, climate change, european foreign and security policy, internal security and civil rights, and the preservation of a social responsibility approach through greater economic success. in view of the berlin declaration and the ensuing debate on the future of the constitutional treaty, we as the european parliament must leave no doubt: the european parliament is the constitutional treaty. we want the substance of the constitutional treaty, including the chapter on values, to become a legal and political reality. (applause from the centre) i would like to conclude by stressing that the berlin summit is not just an event for governments, as it was 50 years ago. it is a conference in which both the european parliament and the commission are involved. the three institutions are represented by their presidents, who sign the declaration on the future of the union and give speeches at the conference. the achievements of the last fifty years are extraordinary. fifty years later, europe needs a new start. we must now work together to find the courage and the will to meet the challenges of the 21st century. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the committee on constitutional affairs has discussed the berlin declaration three times. we have sent you the results of your negotiations with the german presidency in writing. i think that out of the five chapters, it is quite possible to reach an agreement on three. the achievements of the past speak for themselves. the eu is a great project of peace, a great project of freedom and a recipe for ensuring prosperity and security for its citizens, and this should be reflected in the declaration. i think we can agree on the values very quickly. they are enshrined in the constitutional treaty, and in addition to the classic values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, solidarity and equality are particularly important to us. the berlin declaration should not be about the european way of life, but about the european social model which we want to preserve and continue in the future. this particular model of individual freedom coupled with collective security is the specific thing that makes up the social models in europe. i think the challenges of the future are also obvious. they have been mentioned, and there is no need to mention them all. we have a handful of major mega-issues ahead of us, and the question of climate protection was answered brilliantly at the summit last week. it is more difficult to describe what is special about the eu. the committee on constitutional affairs and parliament want the berlin declaration to include a commitment to the community method. the community method distinguishes this eu from all international organisations because it gives this parliament, as the directly elected representative of 500 million citizens, an equal say with the council of ministers whenever we make laws, norms and rules for the people of our member states. we want the community method to become the method of regulation, also in the second and third pillars, so that it is no longer governments who make laws, but citizens who are represented. the berlin declaration is tested by the fifth part of the commitments made by governments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe we need to recognise that the existing treaties are not enough, that we need a new basis, new means and new possibilities for the european union. we must commit to the new treaty. this global compromise is the minimum. the president of the council had courage at the climate summit last week. i hope that she will have the same courage for the berlin declaration, because the courage of march will pay off for the summit in june. i wish you every success in the german presidency. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we do not yet know the text of the berlin declaration. it is therefore useful to talk about the context of the berlin declaration rather than the text. if we listen to the speeches of the president of the council, mrs wallström, joseph daul and jo leinen, we all realise that there is a certain amount of uncertainty about this text, because there are very high expectations of it. why is that? why is so much expectation put into a text that may be one among many? it's very simple. because we all have this sense that we're at a crossroads. perhaps european integration will continue as successfully as it has for the last fifty years, or we may take a different path, away from european integration and towards an uncertain future of renationalisation and the risks that go with it. we all have a sense of insecurity. the berlin declaration must therefore do what a very short text can perhaps do, namely convey a message of hope that what we have done successfully in the last 50 years can be done in the future. but one thing is certain: we will not be able to content ourselves with describing the achievements of the last fifty years. that is unfortunate, but it is the reality. i will tell you why i think it is regrettable, and i will quote the luxembourg prime minister, jean-claude juncker, who said at the award of the charles prize in aachen: 'for my children, adolf hitler is as far away as wilhelm ii is for me'. there is a danger! the more history progresses, the more the risks of intolerance, of hatred, of ethnic exclusion, of all the dangers of territorial claims that we thought we had overcome, which, by the way, we have not, fade. they're all still here. the same is true of the house, the propagators of this monster. we must ask ourselves why the younger generation is not as enthusiastic about the integration work that has overcome this hatred as joseph daul is. because it is history. if we want to prevent all this from happening again, we need to say to the younger generation in particular: okay, we've achieved this, and the demands you make of us that peace is taken for granted are fine. but to guarantee it in the long term, we need new methods. to guarantee peace in the long term means to preserve the climate in this world. as more and more areas of the world become uninhabitable, there are greater and greater flows of migration, which are increasingly destabilizing peace. in the past, securing peace was called integration. the key to securing peace in the future is to reverse climate change. social stability means that young people know that there is a real chance for me to find a decent job with a decent income from which to live a decent life. the younger generation doesn't hope to become millionaires either. it's a beautiful dream. but to be able to get married or to be able to live together in a community, to be able to have children that you know can grow up in peace and have a social perspective, like i have, that's what people want. they want europe to offer them that in this globalised world. they want a third, namely education and training, because we all know: if in the past the guarantee of a dignified pension, the guarantee of a dignified health insurance was considered as a basis of life that must be protected, in the future it is the access to qualification and education. if europe is to become the knowledge-based continent with the greatest competitiveness, it must have well-educated and lifelong learners. otherwise it won't work. but then skills and education become the building blocks for a secure social future. this means that what integration performance territorial and geographical, economic and social has been in the last fifty years, must be climate change, skills and education and decent work in the next fifty years. this can be summed up in a short text. the shorter and more concise the message, the easier it is to convey. the success of the last fifty years has been achieved in its own way, the success of the next fifty years must be achieved with new methods. if we succeed in formulating this in this declaration, backed up by the will of 27 countries to integrate, then we are moving in the right direction at the crossroads where we are now. (applause from the centre)
mr helmer, we wish you a long life, and your experience in the european parliament will certainly be a contribution for a long life, so all the best.
- i'm not going to. that was not a point of order, but we take note of it nonetheless!
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to briefly review this debate. i do not want to comment on them in great detail, but first of all i would like to thank you for your contributions. but at the same time, mr leinen, the discussion has made it clear that it is not so easy to reach a common understanding of the content of the values contained in the berlin declaration. the range of expectations which have been shown in the debate here - from expectations more related to the procedure, such as the community method, on the one hand, to expectations of demanding climatic objectives and freedom of sexual orientation, mr cohn-bendit, on the other hand - shows just how difficult it is to capture in a berlin declaration the full range of this discussion on two sides. but i can assure you that if we try to present the debate in a fair and historically informed way, no one will start from scratch. we have created common documents in these 50 years to which we can refer. the discussions between the european parliament, the commission and the member states are not only held for the purpose of drawing up a berlin declaration, but we also draw on this experience in the ambitious attempt to record the state of the european union and the challenges for the future. mr cohn-bendit, i would like to make one more point in your address. that was a little lesson in demagoguery you delivered here. but of course i am not so naive as to speak in my speech about the fight against illegal immigration. i understand that you needed this slide to, in a way, shape your speech, but i was talking about human freedom and civil rights, and i was talking about a common approach to illegal migration in this context, and this is not just a nuance. i would ask you to take this into account in future. you can trust someone who lives in berlin not just by chance but with his heart to understand a little about the problems that migration and immigration bring and to feel a little about the obligation we have in the nation states to orient our policies in this direction. (applause from the centre) i would like to say to all the others that the discussion i have heard here again today is not so far removed from the discussion you, mr president, had with the heads of government of the member states at dinner last week. i have the impression that the wishes and expectations which are being expressed about us are 90% the same as those which we heard in the debate last thursday evening, in terms of the words and the calls. in this respect, you need not fear that too much will be lost in our ambitious attempt to formulate a berlin declaration from this. but of course we have the task of putting this in a form which still meets the expectations of general understanding. so, mr leinen, as regards the community method: i am aware that it is a keyword in the conversation between europrofis, which gives rise to connotations that tell us something. however, keywords such as "community method" must be implemented and must not be found as such in the text. but we will ensure that such expectations are captured in their meaning. (applause from the centre)
thank you, mr president-in-office. if you speak of the strength of the european institutions, that would be more or less what you mean.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i would like to make two brief additional remarks on this interesting contribution to the debate about the content of the berlin declaration. the first has to do with the fact that european construction, or the european project, is not ‘ready’ – and will never be fully ready. it is a construction that we are working on constantly, and i think this is an example of that. with all its successes and shortcomings, this is what we are still doing. we are adding another piece to the puzzle or to this architecture of europe, and i think it is very important, as several of you have underlined, that we have not only to look back but rather to concentrate on what we want for the future. what about the 20-year-olds of today and their dreams for the future? how can we describe those? how can we illustrate a vision for the future? you are the directly-elected representatives of the peoples of europe. you have to have your ears to the ground, and that is what you have reported here today: what you have heard, your impression of what is important to put into this declaration. secondly, we will not be able to continue to construct a european project, european cooperation, if we do not have people behind us, if we are not working in a democratic, open and transparent way. this is absolutely clear and, as much as you criticise it, this is exactly that, is it not? it is open, it is public, it is reported to the media – what you are saying here is heard. we understand that you cannot negotiate the content of a two-page text with 450 million people, but we can make sure that what you have heard and what we think is most important, from different political points of view, is put into the hands of those who are now drafting the text. this is what the debate is all about. so, to continue to fight for democracy must be one of our basic tasks, and to find modern ways of engaging with citizens has to be a very important part of the declaration, to show that this is possible. as much as we all feel our national identities to be extremely important, we do not see that in contradiction to also feeling that we are european, or international, or globetrotters, or what have you. we consider it possible to open our eyes and to open up our perspectives, and that is why we believe in this cooperation in the european project. i hope that is the idea of us meeting here and both putting together what we are proud of in the history of the european union, and formulating our hopes for the next 50 years of european cooperation and integration.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report of the european council and the commission statement (european council meeting of 8 and 9 march 2007).
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not it was a successful summit! and that is something that must be emphasized, because in recent years we have not always had successful summits. but what has happened now, last weekend, is what the vice-president of the commission has rightly described: europe's ability to act has been demonstrated! yes, you can if you want to! the 27 heads of state and government who met there over the weekend made a landmark decision, which i will not go into in detail. the experts of our group will do so in their speeches. i can therefore concentrate on making sure that what we need - that citizens see that this is not a club of stagnation hanging around - is actually feasible, that the big challenges are not only described, but that the necessary answers are defined, decided and hopefully put into practice! i have often thought, when i have stood here and had to speak about european councils, what would best describe the state of the european council of heads of state or government? i am thinking of matthew - mr president, you know him well from chapter 6, verse 26: "look at the birds of the air. look at them: they do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. i don't have to quote you again: you sow, i hope you reap, i hope we go to the barns, and what the heavenly father will do with you, we will see. in any case, this progress has been made. we all have a great interest, mrs thyssen, in describing this as a joint work of the european institutions. i do not have the impression that mrs merkel acted as an epp representative. i was told that she had been there as president of the council. i do not have the impression that the president of this house was there as a representative of the epp, otherwise he would misunderstand his office, and mr barroso is not allowed to know what the epp is because of his office. so, let's stop claiming this as the success of any party. (applause from the centre) what's the matter? europe has described and tackled a huge challenge. we have also learned something we did not know before - perhaps you did, mr foreign minister - that nuclear energy is now a renewable energy source! this is the chirac theorem, so to speak, for the end of his term. but at least it's a learning experience. the challenge of accepting and pressing for the implementation of what has now been decided is certainly more important than anything else. in any case, we must also praise tony blair! the british government, immediately after the council, is going to say: 20% is good, but we want to be even more ambitious! we need more of that in europe! (applause from the centre) i 'd like to add something . the g8 summit will deal with the situation in africa. we also need to see in this context that climate change is also a significant example of injustice in the world. the continent that contributes least to the pollution of our environment, namely africa, is also the continent that suffers most from climate change. that means that if we talk about, for example, creating justice and solidarity in the world, then it is also a moral obligation for us europeans to actually tackle the problem of climate change and, as has been rightly said, to put pressure on other regions of the world. the protection of human existence, of the ability to live on this planet, is the great goal to which we are all committed, including the united states of america, japan, australia and china - all of us together. but we cannot ask them to do so unless we ourselves set a good example. this is the historic step that was taken over the weekend! i would like to thank you for that, mr steinmeier, because it is to a large extent your work. it is certainly also the work of mrs merkel, but how you work as president of the council with perseverance and persistence should not go unmentioned here! (applause from the left)
mr martin schulz, i am very pleased to note that your firmness in the bible is much greater than mine.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i was not quite sure when matthew was mentioned that lothar might not have been matthew. i'm glad that wasn't the case. mr schulz is quite right: it was a successful council summit. they want to advance the internal energy market, they want to slow down global warming, they want to reduce co2 emissions, they want to increase renewable energy and they want to strengthen energy solidarity. that is what this parliament is asking for. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but there is no reason for complacency, for the more difficult part is yet to come. the summit was a success, and we shall see if the projects are implemented quickly and if we can hope for tangible results later this year. this is also the main message of my group: we want the agreed objectives to be implemented swiftly. the commission is already sending the right messages. the council is called upon to make a statement on this when the commission's proposals are on the table. let me say something specific about this or that subject. first of all, on climate change, you are absolutely right. climate change is either going to work in europe or not at all. but if we look at it in more detail, climate protection is not just a european issue, it is a global issue. only by bringing the other big co2 emitters on board can we achieve the global change that is necessary to actually slow down climate change. to sit here in the glow of a pioneer role is not much. a leader without followers reminds me a little of don quixote, who we should not imitate. so europe's climate policy must now follow europe's climate diplomacy, because the success of this diplomacy will ultimately determine the success of the whole project. some people have mentioned the g8 as the appropriate forum for this and see a solution in bringing the issue to the g8. take it to heiligendamm, but we must also see one thing: the g8 is unlikely to be suitable. china and india are not in it. and that might be a reason to think about the architecture of global institutions. the internal energy market is not an end in itself, but we really need it. the market failure is a matter - commissioner verheugen has mentioned it - which directly affects citizens. i am very pleased that the commission's action plan has been adopted and i would like to express my sincere congratulations to you, and in particular to mr verheugen and to my colleagues mr kroes and mr piebalgs, who have not given up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. bureaucracy requires better regulation. the proposals made by commissioner verheugen are correct, and the fact that they have been adopted is also correct. we are therefore pleased with the progress made in this area, but we also consider it an obligation on the member states to follow suit. it is a fairy tale that all bureaucracy comes from brussels. the council has shown that it can agree on a really important issue. congratulations on this. the second important issue of the presidency must now also be successfully tackled. the berlin declaration and the june summit are waiting for us. we'll support you in that.
i thank you very much, mr kamiński, also for your kind words to me.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. everyone starts by talking about the historic importance of the last summit for climate change and the environment, overlooking the fact that in other important areas, such as employment policy and the european social model, no progress has been made and therefore no opportunities have been created. the lisbon strategy, with its focus on the european union's global competitiveness and the global player, in my view prevents effective alignment both in the fight against climate change and in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. i am very grateful to the commission for the work it has done in this area. however, it is clear that these steps are too limited and that they are nevertheless threatened with slowing down and being discontinued. the eu is once again getting in its own way by putting aside its own studies which conclude that a 30% reduction in greenhouse gases is necessary to actually avoid irreversible warming and thus up to 86 000 additional climate deaths per year in the eu. the difference between the 30% and the 20% is whether we take the chance to prevent climate catastrophe or whether we march on anyway. the problem is not that the left-wing opposition is in principle too lacking in what the governing parties are doing right. the problem is that the wrong policy is being maintained or the decisive changes are not actually being made. it is also not surprising that the fight against poverty, social exclusion and social divisions remained marginalised at the summit, and was not linked to a consistent response to global warming and environmental degradation. mr verheugen, despite what you have said today, it is precisely this close interconnection between social and environmental issues that is not addressed at the summit. the european commission has for years been presenting studies showing the employment potential associated with the use of renewable energy sources, the external costs, but also the steering effect of eco-taxes. the collection of these data could increase the revenue of the european union, which is necessary for urgent social and environmental measures. this logic of the markets explains why, for example, the action plan for energy policy for europe has only included the fight against climate change as a last main objective. it also explains why the european council is pressing ahead with the epa negotiations despite the summit's complaint about the growing share of greenhouse gas emissions from developing countries. these free trade agreements are, in my view, a brutal form of neo-colonialism, socially and ecologically destructive. there are at least three conclusions: first, we need to prioritize contemporary policies to combat poverty and social exclusion and climate change, then we need to stop the epa, and finally we need to delete the passages in the draft constitution that aim at economic deregulation, privatization and armament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the president-in-office for his report. it was indeed a successful summit, and as always, success has many fathers, failure is a foundling. in this case, it was primarily a success of chancellor merkel, who was minister for the environment for four years many years ago and who knows the european council of ministers for the environment. focus on energy and climate policy: unfortunately, the public debate following this successful summit has been limited to the internal debate on renewable energy. the summit document documented that much more was decided on energy security and climate compatibility. the social compatibility of the proposals put forward is also important, and if we set targets, for example 20% or 30%, then those targets must be realistic. mr schulz has praised mr blair for 60%. mr blair will not have to implement this as we all know, and i am sure that his conservative challenger will demand 70% by tomorrow at the latest. so these goals must be realistic, or they have no real value. secondly, despite all the success, there are still some questions to be answered, such as the question of burden sharing. i hope that the commission and the german presidency will have something to say about this before the middle of the year. what is the role of nuclear energy? we cannot proceed as was said in the internal german debate. it is a fact that for every kilowatt hour of nuclear energy, 15 grams of co2 are produced, for every kilowatt hour of lignite, 970 grams. that means we have to have an open discussion about it. i believe that the success of the german presidency will ultimately be measured by whether it succeeds in making this european benchmark, which was decided to be an international standard in the international negotiations with the usa, russia, india and china, a success. the german presidency will then be a lasting success.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to express my surprise at the intensity and level of discussion here on how to achieve real co2 reductions. i have the impression in my member state that we could tackle the climate catastrophe by driving a little slower, changing light bulbs and planting three trees on each holiday in africa. anyone who fakes something like that is lying to the people. it is necessary that we think very hard about where most co2 emissions are taking place. they occur in the production of electricity. it is therefore important to consider how the regions that emit the most co2 can also reduce their emissions. it is interesting to note that the chairman of the german spd now also walks around the country as a science expert and calculates how much co2 emissions are caused by nuclear energy. he should leave that to a physicist like the chancellor. then we'd be on the right track. so the first thing we have to think about is how we can set targets for energy production in the car industry. how many grams of co2 per kilowatt hour can be emitted? then you are on the right track and can think of further measures. i am very much aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the subject. it is important that we europeans, free of ideology and in the light of the responsibilities we have to assume here, also discuss the keyword nuclear energy in a factual manner and thus contribute to the fact that this debate can once again be conducted in a factual manner in the member states.
thank you very much, mr harbour. it is nice to see your engagement and emotion.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you very much for your generally positive assessment of the spring summit of heads of state or government. mr lambsdorff, i would like to say that for me and for the german government neither the summit nor the positive comments are a source of complacency. i do not want to be excused for saying that for the rest of the way, for the second half of our presidency, some confidence is necessary - at least not harmful. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. i can assure you that, before the beginning of our presidency of the council and especially after it began, i have been asked many times, especially by journalists, how you intend to set up this programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i don't think the secret is that big. you all know this from your work. it takes a lot of patience, especially with those partners who have doubts, who are hesitant about certain outcomes. it is necessary to have the necessary ambition and above all to be fair in dealing with those who have greater difficulties than others in achieving the objectives agreed upon. it worked at the last summit. now, of course, the same questions are being asked with a view to 25 march. how can this be done in the face of such different interpretations of the history of the european union, and with such different expectations of the content of the berlin declaration? i'm telling you, that's exactly what's gonna happen. we have listened patiently in the past. i think we know roughly where the expectations are. i say this only because someone said earlier that the result would necessarily be very general. if the berlin declaration succeeds, the success need not be a cause for banality. it may indeed be a good outcome for this berlin declaration. if this step succeeds, it will not be the solution, nor the end of our presidency, nor the end of our ambition. but it is an important second step towards the solution which we hope will be reached at the june summit, in which we will try to break the knot which is currently blocking us in the process of european renewal. i can assure you that we will do everything possible to prepare for the june summit. on energy and climate, a few final words: many have rightly pointed out that this summit is not the end of the road. i cannot help but agree with that and say that, yes, there is still much work to be done. i have mentioned energy research, i have mentioned the strengthening of our external energy relations, and this of course also applies, mr verheugen, to the ambitious objective of renewable energy. we have now set the 20% as a european target and we have always said - and we have also said this to the outside world - that it is now important to translate this european target into national targets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we were both sure - the commission and the presidency - that we would probably have to discuss this for another five years and still not have reached a common goal. that's why we agreed to this. it has been pointed out that we europeans cannot ultimately save the world's climate on our own. we need to keep an eye on how energy and climate policy develops in key countries such as the united states, china and india. it has been suggested that we should not be dealing with this at this time. i would just like to say that the opposite is true, and i say that for europe, i say that for our national german policy and i say that in particular for our g8 presidency. i shall be in washington next monday and, in agreement with my american colleague, will be opening a joint major event there with the participation of german and american companies, with whom we shall be discussing how we can strengthen the transatlantic technological partnership, especially in the field of the energy industry. i would point out, in relation to the efforts in the usa, that beyond the federal level, many states in the usa are already doing exemplary work in the field of climate and energy policy. i would like to say that we are looking at china very closely. there will be so-called outreach meetings in the g8 context, both at summit and foreign minister level, to which not only china and india but also mexico, south africa and brazil will be invited, and both meetings - at both foreign minister and summit level - will focus on energy and climate. you see, we also take care of those who are not in the european union. we must show - as the last summit did, and i agree with günther verheugen - that the european union is not a historical seminar but a workshop for the future. and we've provided an example of that. (applause from the centre)
thank you, mr president-in-office. after the successful brussels summit, we now need a successful outcome in the form of the berlin declaration. the european parliament will do everything it can to ensure that we succeed together.
vice-president of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make one point, or rather one request. in the field of tension between economic efficiency, high social standards and the protection of our environment, we should stop the confrontational, polarizing view of the past, which pits economy against ecology and ecology against economy. it is simply not true that anyone is against climate change and against environmental protection when they say we also have a responsibility for jobs. it is simply not true that when someone says we must do more to protect our environment, he is saying that he is not interested in jobs. the truth is, we've learned that we can connect the two. the truth is that a european industry that leads the world in not just environmental technology but also in environmentally friendly products and services is the one that will be best able to create jobs and a future for people. what is at stake here, and this is the view of the policy of this commission, is solidarity with the generation living today, who are concerned with living today and having jobs today, and solidarity with the generations to come, who want to find a planet on which they can live, which is not a contradiction. that is what we are trying to prove with this policy!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few minutes. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. since 1999, the european parliament has been deliberating on legislative proposals in the field of migration without a decision-making basis in the form of figures. the scope of immigration policy has been considerably extended. we therefore need more and better information to plan, implement, evaluate and monitor policies effectively. the commission, under the leadership of mr franco frattini, has responded to the european parliament's call and has presented a draft regulation on the statistical recording of migration movements. this is necessary because, on the current voluntary basis, member states do not supply statistical material or only partially do. in addition, data are collected differently and are thus not comparable. this regulation obliges our member states to supply the figures which are absolutely necessary. in addition, we achieve a harmonization so that the figures are comparable. the council's approach was relatively difficult, while in the european parliament all parties were convinced of the need for the regulation. the broad consensus of all the political groups also enabled parliament's position to be adopted in the comitology area. the excellent cooperation with all the shadow rapporteurs, to whom i would like to express my sincere thanks, has been instrumental in bringing this important dossier to a satisfactory conclusion. i want to thank you again for that.
the next item is the joint debate on euromed, with the following items: council and commission statements on euro-mediterranean relations and report by mr kader arif on behalf of the committee on international trade on the establishment of the euro-mediterranean free trade area (2006/2173 (ini)) (a6-0468/2006).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we remember the failed constitutional reform last year, we remember the loud, often nationalistic campaign slogans, the outcome of the elections, the planned withdrawal of the high representative. all this led us to prepare a report on bosnia and herzegovina in december last year. but since the beginning of this year, things have changed faster than we dared hope: there is a functioning national government and a functioning parliament; the eu has decided to reduce eufor forces and the question of the whereabouts of the high representative and the 'bonn power' is being re-examined; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we therefore set aside all accusations and trust with the reasonable people of the country in improvement and success in politics. the sharp tone of the campaign with the threat of a referendum has faded, it was obviously not meant to be understood. our report tries to name problems. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the draft constitution. it is not acceptable that there should be a zero-sum mentality in the sense of "what is good for others is bad for me". that is the way to achieve a common policy. the dayton constitution is a monster because it's not practical. but it is not the fault of the politicians there, but of others who have carried out the division of bosnia-herzegovina into two entities after the war, as the only way to peace. but today this division is only justified if both parts are really able to support the whole state and not hinder its functioning. i therefore expressly state that constitutional reform is essential to bring bosnia and herzegovina into the eu. it is also clear that it is not for us or any so-called internationalists to tackle this constitutional reform, but the elected politicians of all three nationalities must assume their responsibilities. the venice commission or american and european experts can provide assistance, but parliament must provide the platform for this, including after the introduction of the newly elected prime minister of bosnia and herzegovina. the agenda of the constitutional reform process must contain clear steps and objectives. there is also an open discrepancy between the functioning of one entity, the republika srpska, and the other entity, the federation. this has to be resolved in the interests of the whole country. the european parliament plays a major role in the development of bosnia and herzegovina, and we want bosnia and herzegovina to become a fully functioning state, capable of providing for its citizens and of creating the legal and economic conditions on which the young people of bosnia and herzegovina in particular depend. it's the only way she can build her future. this is also a prerequisite for the displaced persons who still wish to return. i would like to make a specific appeal to the republika srpska to look together with the croatian government for viable ways of making possible the return to the still war-torn, uninhabited posavina in northern bosnia. the report does not mention the current tensions in srebrenica. i'd like to speak to her here. but please do not end up in a secessionist movement. i appeal to all to seek ways of reconciliation, especially for the young people, to create a peaceful coexistence without hatred. separation and isolation help no one! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is high time to close this chapter, and i was actually hoping that esfor, then eufor, would play a really important role here, more than they have done. ladies and gentlemen, bosnia and herzegovina is in the middle of the eu. his fate is closely tied to ours and his neighbors. that is why our policies for this country and its neighbours must be at the heart of our engagement. eu membership is an incentive to make many difficult decisions on the ground. i would like to conclude by reminding all those responsible in bosnia and herzegovina that our educational programmes are now open to the participation of young bosnians and that the government must therefore do everything possible to take the necessary administrative steps to this end. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the sooner these are created, the sooner young people can participate in erasmus, leonardo or comenius. we all hope very much that in the coming months bosnia and herzegovina will take the lead in taking the necessary reforms. i want to thank my colleagues for their support.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not thank you to doris pack for the excellent report. to be honest, i didn't expect anything different. my group welcomes the development process in bosnia-herzegovina, and it is high time that this happened 12 years after dayton. it is also high time that local politicians take more responsibility and - regardless of ethnic origin - stand up for a common bosnia and herzegovina and finally stop demanding unrealized war goals through verbal attacks. in the light of a common democratic and peaceful future under the rule of law, every effort should be made to finally face up to a painful but salutary process of overcoming the difficult common past. we therefore welcome the establishment of a national truth and reconciliation commission, as mentioned in the report. an important step towards this was the recognition of the genocide of bosnian muslims by the parliament of republika srpska. it has been said many times today that we expect cooperation with the hague and not just words. i would also like to see civil society involved in this discussion process. as a german, i know exactly what i'm talking about. finally, i expect the international community to be and remain a reliable and really important partner. the constant change of personnel in the office of the high representative is not a good way to do this. commissioner rehn, i really wish you success with the visa problem. we need a solution urgently.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was in sarajevo and mostar, too, when there was a shot every second. so i'm grateful that there's no war there today, thanks to dayton. but no war is still no peace, and the crucial conditions for peace are still lacking. that is why i am concerned that the experienced international commissioner, mr schwarz schilling, should be replaced because he has pursued the right policy. i am concerned about the premature reduction in our troop presence, which is still the wrong signal at the moment, and i am particularly concerned about the fact that people are beginning to lose interest in the developments in bosnia and herzegovina. we are only at the beginning of a laborious process of construction. and we need first of all a constitutional reform that comes from within the country itself, and which we can only accompany and support. but unless the country is transformed into an equal federation of three equal peoples, there will be no stability there in the long run. the road to that is long and rocky, and it requires patient conversation, culture and education. i thank mr rouček for putting this emphasis, which is also the emphasis of the rapporteur, mrs pack, and mr schwarz-schilling. it's only through multi-religious, multi-confessional schools and universities that we can move forward. perhaps one day there will be a large, multi-religious european university in sarajevo, which would also send a signal for a european islam. perhaps this could be the result of the eu's big meeting with religious communities in may, which would reach far beyond the troubled region of south-eastern europe. we need a european university, european schools, intensive cooperation between nationalities, and above all we need patience. we must therefore continue to carry out the duties of high commissioner and european commissioner in the way they are now carried out, namely with moderation, without an ashdown dictatorship, but by means of sensible attempts at reconciliation which will lead to the healing of wounds, the coming together of peoples and ethnic groups and the emergence of those forces of renewal and self-healing within the country itself, without which bosnia and herzegovina has no future. and if bosnia and herzegovina were to fall into crisis, it would threaten to drag its neighbours along with it. i agree with the commissioner that the year is 2007, and it is a truly fateful year for this house. we must help kosovo to achieve independence under international supervision, stepping up croatia's eu membership, stabilising bosnia and herzegovina and at the same time democratizing and democratically stabilising serbia. this is the great challenge of our time. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you didn't knock on my door or anyone else's. that is why we have extended the speaking time. i ask you to knock just before the end, as do the other vice-presidents.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. doris pack, congratulations on your report. they can start building the pedestal for your monument down there. in this difficult situation it is right to include so many constructive elements in the report. it is a paradox that the eu is committed to the thessaloniki declaration at every opportunity, and in bosnia the train is going in the opposite direction, in a more nationalist direction, at least according to the statements of the leading politicians. i think this debate is also a wake-up call. when even the cautious and responsible commissioner olli rehn says 'we have had enough of it', that should be a wake-up call. what the report says is correct: yes to the truth and reconciliation commission, yes to the unity of the international community. we should leave the high representative. the focus on visa facilitation and particularly on education and youth is exactly right. the young people must get to know europe, that is the point. the report is a really constructive contribution, and i hope that it will be taken up in the country, but that this debate will also be taken up here. that would be important to me. i think that we should also have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the agenda item for today was very neutral and was entitled 'the future of the european aircraft industry'. the main point today, however, is the crisis at airbus. the management's planned restructuring programme, power 8, which is intended to close the company's financing gap, involves mass redundancies and plant sales. airbus, a jewel of european industry, has highly qualified staff, full order books, full plants and good products. this is contrary to factory sales. factory sales are the wrong signal to close the funding gap. it has been shown that the sale of a plant usually means a drop in the rate of a site and leads to the destruction of jobs and know-how. mr hintze, i ask you, as the representative of the council and the coordinator of the german federal government for aerospace, to ensure that the airbus sites in europe are preserved and that the power 8 restructuring plan does not come into force. the airbus crisis and the miscalculations of management must not be blamed on the backs of the workers and on the industrial base of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that airbus is competing with boeing for the number one position on the world market and that the order books are full of orders speaks to the high level of competence of the employees and their identification with the product. the errors committed are not the responsibility of the employees. they have done a good job and they continue to do so. the european aerospace industry cannot continue to do without this know-how from france, the united kingdom, spain and germany. the development and assembly of high-tech aircraft wings, as is done at my site in bremen, requires special skills. you can't just drive right into an airplane. we are dealing with serious management errors here. the short-sightedness of highly paid managers must not lead to sites being played off against each other. nor is it relevant that the airbus decisions were not explained to the employees or the european works council as plausible. i think that this shows once again how urgently we need to amend the european works council directive. it's more than overdue. mr hintze, i would also like to say to you once again that it is not possible to reduce development times for new aircraft technologies arbitrarily. to be guided solely by marketing considerations is a bitter revenge.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. how long will the commission and the council tolerate in silence that corporate executives want to compensate for their own failure by cutting back on their workforce? both the french and german governments must be driven to the hunt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore demand that power 8, the so-called rehabilitation program, be withdrawn. the airbus employees in france and germany must not be pitted against each other. in a sector as important as aerospace, public control must finally be secured in addition to funding. the eu should be strongly committed to airbus. low-interest loans could be secured through the eib and serve to strengthen employment, skills, development and research. we support the european day of action of local workers and trade unions on 16 march and we stand in solidarity with their struggle.
the president of the council. mr paleckis, of course the present presidency is also very interested in strengthening the overall fight against corruption and its efforts, no matter in which country. but i had already mentioned in my first part of the reply that we have not yet received the commission's report on the implementation of this framework decision in writing. i think it is worth waiting and then examining and analysing this report to see where there may still be gaps in action or where there is a need for action and then making a decision. but i think that's an important clue, and it seems quite possible that we need to identify these gaps and then act.
the president of the council. i thank the honourable member for drawing attention to this important issue. i would also refer the honourable member to the council's reply to written question no e-2552/06 by jolanta dičkutė. in its conclusions on women's health of 2 june 2006, published in official journal c 146 of 22 june 2006, the council recognised that cervical cancer is a disease exclusively affecting women, which is also reflected in the text of the declaration. the council stressed the importance of specific approaches to the management of women's diseases and asked the commission to support the exchange of information and experience on best practice in gender-sensitive health promotion and prevention. the collection of data and the exchange of information and best practice on cervical cancer are among the measures for which funding is provided under the community action programme in the field of public health for 2003-08, which is currently being discussed. the german presidency is determined to achieve a final agreement between the council and the european parliament that ensures that the programme is implemented from 1 january 2008.
the president of the council. you're right, i know. it is true that the approval of this human papillomavirus vaccine is an important step forward in the prevention of cervical cancer. it is said that this vaccine protects against cancer in 96 to 100 percent of cases. however, this vaccination is still very new and the development of possible vaccination and information strategies - as you mentioned - is only at the beginning. the exchange of knowledge and experience is therefore still the main priority in this field. however, we also believe that information measures, including the implementation of appropriate early detection guidelines, which already exist here, can significantly improve protection.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in its conclusions of 11 december 2006, the council commended croatia for the progress achieved. he stressed that the accession negotiations had started well and that initial results had been achieved. at the same time, the council stressed that croatia must now build on the progress made so far. the pace of accession negotiations continues to be determined by the progress of the candidate country. as the presidency also stated to croatia at the third meeting of the stabilisation and association council on 6 march, the croatian government should pay particular attention to accelerating reforms in the judiciary and public administration. in the field of the obligations still to be fulfilled by croatia under the stabilisation and association agreement, the council emphasised state aid and the acquisition of real estate. the council welcomed croatia's continued full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and stressed the need to continue this cooperation. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. in addition, croatia needs to make increased efforts towards good neighbourly relations, including the necessary efforts to resolve outstanding bilateral issues, in particular border disputes. the council has already completed the screening for 22 negotiating chapters. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement, which sets out the criteria for the accession of croatia to the eu. for the remaining 15 chapters, croatia was directly invited to present its negotiating position to the accession conference. as regards the opening and closing of negotiating chapters in the accession negotiations, two chapters, namely science and research and education and culture, have been opened and provisionally closed. three further negotiating chapters - economic and monetary policy, enterprise and industrial policy and customs union - have been opened. in addition, the negotiating positions of both parties on chapter 7 - the intellectual property rules - are available and are expected to be opened shortly. croatia has submitted its negotiating position to the conference on five further chapters.
minister of state! the european parliament has also called for the eu to be involved in the negotiations on the accession of croatia, and for the eu to be involved in the negotiations on the accession of croatia. my specific question is: do you think it is conceivable that some eight chapters will be opened under the german presidency, and can you really assure me that croatia will not be treated more strictly than other candidate countries? we in the european parliament sometimes get the impression that croatia is being made to pay for some of the inaccuracies in previous enlargements.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union must think carefully about how it can best promote its own interests. the strategy of seeking advantages later by making concessions early is certainly not going to succeed. it is not the case that the rules are being respected, but that they are being respected in the interests of free and fair competition. unfair trading practices must therefore not be tolerated. effective trade defence instruments are therefore undoubtedly an indispensable part of the european strategy to increase our competitiveness. i would also like to say that i wholeheartedly agree with mr glattfelder that the protection instruments must not be diluted any further. the timing of the green paper is, in my view, very unfavourable, commissioner, because the outcome of the current multilateral negotiations on trade defence instruments should not be prejudged. there should be no reform in europe before the end of these negotiations, whether successful or unsuccessful, as i hope. secondly, the instruments which have been used so far have proved their worth. the reforms should therefore be geared to improving the existing system, if reforms are necessary at all. we need a clear distinction - as you rightly said - between genuine dumping and competitive pricing. anti-dumping measures must not be abused for protectionist purposes. but on the other hand, the long-term preservation of european production should not be sacrificed to apparent short-term consumer interests. the procedural side must ensure that the assessment of cases is as objective as possible and free from any national special interests in the council. i am firmly convinced that while third countries are using trade defence instruments against us intensively and often abusively, we must not relax our own. all this is possible with the existing rules, provided they are applied correctly. i therefore ask you to be very sensitive in this respect and i recommend that you read my recent draft report on external trade strategy, which also deals with the issue of trade defence instruments, with great interest.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the charter of fundamental rights has been in existence for over six years. it is of the utmost importance for the protection of citizens' rights, but it is still not legally binding. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. the charter is its core substance. it is against this background that the commission's initiative should be supported. this is about creating a genuine culture of fundamental rights. i would like to expressly support this approach and to highlight two issues in this context. first, systematic monitoring of fundamental rights must in any case mean focusing on the fundamental rights specifically concerned and also providing detailed evidence of this in each legislative proposal. secondly, we need more than a mere examination of possible errors of law in the balance between the freedom of the individual and the requirements of the general interest. what we need is a policy of optimisation of fundamental rights, that is to say, a policy of analysis to identify among the various solutions which are free from error of assessment the one which best balances the setting of objectives with the restriction of fundamental rights. such an approach could be the culture of fundamental rights in question. this could strengthen the identity of the european union as a union of citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. for over thirty years the issue of missing persons in cyprus has been an open wound. officially, 2,000 people are still missing on both sides. each side accuses the other of refusing to cooperate effectively in solving the cases. i would ask that we at least not continue these accusations here in the house. meanwhile, the families of the missing are still living in doubt about the fate of their loved ones. but the tears of the mothers, they are the same tears, whether their sons were of greek or turkish origin, they were all cypriots, they died for enos and for taksim. that is part of the truth in speaking out about this conflict. in this context, the work of the committee on missing persons plays an important role and we cannot thank it enough. it is a humanitarian matter first and foremost, and we should not make his job more difficult by politicizing it. the work done by the committee is not only important for the relatives of the disappeared, but also serves to bring the two groups closer together. this bi-communal work on the mass graves creates a shared culture of remembrance and understanding of the historical traumas of each side. that is why financial support is very important. it is also desirable that we support other bi-communal projects on the island. i am thinking of the projects of filmmakers, intellectuals such as panikos chrysanthou and niyazi kizilyürek, but also of the bi-communal art project manifesta 6 and many other projects that we must support so that all that we have seen in the past in the terrible images of cyprus remains in the past and will not hit us in the future. the demolition of the bridge on ledra street is a sign of hope. the response to the fact that the wall that runs through nicosia has also been torn down is another sign of hope. let us all work together to ensure that this sign of hope is followed by other signs of hope. the european union is also calling on the parties to act in a constructive and european manner so that this conflict in europe can be put to rest. we cannot bring the dead back from the realm of the dead, but we can make sure that nationalism in cyprus never gets a chance again.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would just like to highlight one important area from the very good report by my colleague, mr francesco musotto, which is of no small importance not only for the islands concerned but for the whole of the eu, namely the problem of illegal immigration. this problem of illegal immigration, which is disproportionately affecting the eu's mediterranean islands, must, in my view, be tackled more effectively. although progress has been made by union action, for example by developing an integrated border management system and establishing a community code for the crossing of all types of borders by persons, the immigration figures show that action is not enough. although the responsibility for action clearly lies with the member states and will remain so in the future, the islands cannot be left to bear the burden of their geographical location alone, because what is ostensibly a spanish, italian or greek problem is in effect a pan-european problem which requires a response at community level. solidarity through joint action is needed here and must be put into practice. in this context, the establishment of a european coastguard to monitor the eu's external border is certainly not a panacea for this island problem. but this proposal by mr musotto should be examined to see whether it can be one of many measures against illegal immigration to protect the islands and the eu as a whole.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i would point out that mrs resetarits and mr triantaphyllides have also signed this motion for a resolution. mrs resetarits, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, and mr triantaphyllides, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the explanations of vote are closed.
a writer. the commission is not mr pinior has pointed out - and i thank him for this - that terrorism in guatemala has a long tradition, on both sides. i recalled in the last session a few months ago, when we were discussing the emergency debate on guatemala, that in the early 1970s - over 30 years ago, that is - a german diplomat, karl graf von spreti, was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in guatemala, a man who was a prominent bavarian politician, who always stood up for freedom and whose death anniversary we will soon be commemorating in bavaria. even then, terror was perpetrated by the regime, and by those who fought against the regime. since then, despite some democratization in the last twenty years, this country has not yet come to a standstill. there is extreme right-wing violence, there is extreme left-wing violence, and mr pinior rightly pointed out that there is also the violence used by organized crime, which is mixed in many ways with political extremists. that is why we must finally pursue an intensive and aggressive policy in latin america. i am very grateful to mr salafranca sánchez-neyra for taking this initiative on behalf of our group, and also to mr dess, who is particularly concerned with relations with latin america - in his case, mainly with brazil. but we are making it clear that latin america is not just the concern of our spanish and portuguese colleagues, but that it is the concern of all of us, and that it is an important partner continent. and only if democracy and the rule of law are finally consolidated in central and south america and if extremism is combated can this continent play the role which its economic and cultural weight actually entitles it to. we must therefore - and i give mr pinior the right to do so - use all our instruments of trade policy to defend democracy and the rule of law. democracy and the rule of law are not luxuries, nor are they arabs to be worn when it comes to economic relations. there can be no lasting and successful economic relations with regimes and forces which ignore basic human rights. that is why this human rights debate is essential and we must apply pressure accordingly.
a writer. the commission is not the human rights situation in guatemala is appalling. mr czarnecki has referred to the specific incident which is the basis for our discussion of this subject today. however, the situation in guatemala is characterized by the strong influence of social groups outside the political parties, especially the military and the business community. in some parts of the country, trust in the state's legal system is severely impaired, especially among the indian population. according to human rights experts in guatemala, several thousand murders are committed each year, but only about 2 percent of the cases are actually solved or arrests made. a german citizen was shot dead in guatemala yesterday. trade unionists, like pedro zamora in puerto quetzal, or farmer leaders and their families have been killed earlier this year. witnesses to murders or their legal representatives are threatened, burglaries are committed and assaults are made on these persons. the security situation needs to be improved by a political solution and not by further reinforcement of the security forces. it is therefore essential to note that these so-called security forces are part of the problem in guatemala. the eu has now announced that it will support these very security forces and unfortunately will continue to rely on a strengthening of free trade. the reaction of thousands of guatemalans is relatively clear; it was seen recently when us president george w. bush visited guatemala. there were large demonstrations against his visit. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the carriage of goods by road. but as in brazil, uruguay and colombia, the first stops of bush's trip, the president's visit was accompanied by protests. that's good. so if the european union follows the example of us policy, this could become very problematic. instead of free trade and the arming of the security forces, what is needed is a real fight against poverty and an improvement in the legal situation of the majority of the population.
a writer. the commission is not we have been regularly dealing with the situation in cambodia for years, and we have had to deal with serious setbacks and then small gains. the whole thing moves forward at best with the speed and method of the echternak jumping procession. the great problem we have at the moment is that we have to identify two opposing trends. firstly, thank god asean has finally begun to put human rights issues on the agenda, at least cautiously. there is a gentle but effective pressure within asean to develop democracy and the rule of law in cambodia. on the other hand, the necessary process for the establishment of the court, the court which is to judge the atrocious crimes of the khmer rouge, has been stalled. this is not necessarily only about the cambodians. the cambodians have started to move slowly. but international zeal has been somewhat dampened. this is because of the considerable oil reserves found in cambodia. and now we are seeing something that we have to deal with more often in human rights debates, namely that the chinese and japanese - especially the chinese - are willing to invest there under whatever political conditions are created and to extract oil and to exclude human rights issues, and then unfortunately also western corporations - in this case it concerns mainly the united states of america - to intervene in this negative race. the united states, which has so far made enormous progress towards the court, is threatening to lose its zeal in this area. we europeans have a crucial task here, which includes safeguarding the economic and strategic interests of our continent, but we will not succeed in the long term if democracy, human rights and the rule of law are neglected. that is why a stable cambodia can only exist if it also develops politically. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not yet clear whether the commission will take any action to combat fraud. the murder of the trade unionists clearly shows that not even an attempt is being made to cover up what happened there, that not even a serious attempt is being made to actually find and punish the perpetrators, but that a climate of absolute lawlessness prevails. we cannot accept that. economic stability cannot exist without political stability and political stability cannot exist without the rule of law. we must convey this message to the cambodian people in a clear and unmistakable way.
a writer. the commission is not i must say quite frankly that i would find a debate on the development of the situation in zimbabwe more urgent than any of the three subjects we are debating this week. the detailed reports i receive are staggering. but because of the limitation to three subjects in the urgency debate which we have imposed on ourselves, unfortunately that is not possible today. i hope that in the parliamentary reform working party we will remove this self-limitation in the urgency debate. as regards the situation in nigeria, we believe it is appropriate to focus on the human rights deficits in general, and especially in the run-up to the forthcoming elections, rather than on one issue. we also believe, and have said so, that the present bill in nigeria contains violations of fundamental human rights. we are against any discrimination based on sexual orientation and we also believe that a person's privacy is his or her private affair and should not be criminalised by the state. we consider it a violation of freedom of expression when someone is punished with imprisonment for advocating more liberal legal provisions. but we believe that a resolution on nigeria must also address the other problems that are affecting the people as a whole, namely the widespread violence, corruption, impunity for human rights violators, political intimidation in the run-up to elections, possibly also by security forces, the threat to the independence of the national electoral commission, the fact that the death penalty is still in force there, that there are still degrading corporal punishments, especially in parts of the country where sharia is practiced, and that the problem of child labour is also very virulent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 15 march 2007.
i am not going to go into detail. the group of the european people's party has unanimously asked me to make the following statement on zimbabwe. it is a very serious matter. the political situation in zimbabwe has continued to escalate in recent weeks. there were violent attacks by government-controlled forces. on 11 march, armed police bombed a meeting in a suburb of the capital, harare, killing an opposition member, gift tandare, and injuring numerous protesters. forty leading opposition politicians, including the leaders of the main opposition party mdc movement for democratic change, morgan tsvangirai and arthur mutambara, were arrested and ill-treated in police custody. on 18 march, mp nelson chamisa was beaten and seriously injured and was hospitalized. he was on his way to the meetings of the committees of the acp-eu joint assembly. this attack has led the joint parliamentary assembly's executive board, with the consent of the african members, to condemn this incident. the board calls on the zimbabwean government to end the violence in the country and to respect human rights and the rule of law. ladies and gentlemen, we strongly condemn all violence and repression by the government of president mugabe! the council and the commission should work with all interested international, regional and national forces to achieve a transitional solution from the present regime to a genuine democracy. (applause from the centre)
before we get to the agenda, i have an announcement to make. the prime minister of the czech republic has informed me of his decision to appoint mr jan zahradil as his representative in the discussions on the berlin declaration and more generally in the context of the revival of the constitutional process during the german presidency of the council. the legal affairs committee, which dealt with this matter in accordance with rule 4 (5) of the rules of procedure, concluded at its meeting on 19 and 20 march 2007 that this office is compatible with the letter and spirit of the act establishing direct elections to the european parliament, that there is therefore no incompatibility and that mr jan zahradil can continue to hold office as a member of parliament.
i would also like to welcome a delegation from iraq. i am very pleased to welcome a five-member delegation from the iraqi parliament, led by mr hamid mousa, as guests in the european parliament this afternoon. (applause from the centre) the situation in iraq is a constant concern for us and a visit by our colleagues, which gives us the opportunity to obtain firsthand information on developments, is very necessary and welcome. i had the opportunity to meet the delegation yesterday and i am well aware of the extremely difficult conditions under which members of parliament work. i am sure that the discussions with the foreign affairs committee and other members of this house have been useful and mutually beneficial. i hope that the ongoing process of constitutional reform will provide an opportunity for all groups in iraq to reach a broad consensus on the key issues and to pave the way for their country's future. i wish you and your country the very best and hope that your visit will help to establish solid parliamentary relations between our two parliaments, your parliament in iraq and the european parliament. all the best to you in your suffering country.
the next item is the follow-up to the berlin declaration. let me say a few words about that. on 17 january the president of the european council - to whom i extend a very warm welcome - was here in the european parliament and presented her programme. the german chancellor, angela merkel, is here. on february 13th, you were present at my keynote address. today you are reporting on the berlin declaration of 25 march, and i can therefore see that you are visiting the european parliament for the third time - not even halfway through your presidency - and we are delighted to see that. i would like to thank you very sincerely on behalf of all my colleagues. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. the evaluation of the berlin declaration will now be carried out by the group chairmen, and i do not want to prejudge that in any way. but i want to say this: in preparing the berlin declaration, you, madam chancellor, and your staff were always available to the european parliament and the president of the european parliament and his staff to take account of our considerations, as well as you could with 27 governments. i myself have strictly observed the decision of the conference of presidents and have interpreted it more intensively and have constantly informed and consulted the officials of the committee on constitutional affairs, as well as the bureau and the conference of presidents. now we will begin the debate. i would like to extend a warm welcome to the president of the european council, mrs merkel, and to the president of the european commission, mr barroso. (applause from the centre)
the president of the council. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen! i was happy to come to the european parliament again today, this time to brussels. we are now in what is like halfway through the german presidency, and i think that after last weekend we can say that we have achieved a good deal in two important tasks which lie ahead of us all this half-year. the first is the issue of energy and climate policy. the german foreign minister, mr steinmeier, has already reported to you in the european parliament. i would just like to emphasize once again that the council has succeeded in drawing important conclusions on the basis of the commission's proposals in this important area of energy and climate policy, thus demonstrating the european union's ability to act in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that what constitutes the ambitious goals, of course, requires further work. but this is normal in the political reality: you take one step and if it is successful, the door opens to further steps. but the spirit in which we have managed to agree on a 20% improvement in energy efficiency by 2020 and binding targets on renewable energy with a 20% share should also enable us to act together in the international negotiations that are to come and to tackle the task now necessary of bringing down the breakdown to the individual shares of the nation states. that is why i am asking for parliament's support at this stage. we have already received a great deal of support in this area and if we are given the necessary impetus, we will certainly be able to draw the necessary conclusions as a council. (applause from the right) we want to look at the last weekend as a second important step. the berlin declaration has shown, on the one hand, the success story of the european union and, on the other, the great tasks we still have to face together. i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to the president of parliament, mr hans-gert pöttering, and to all the group leaders in the european parliament for having succeeded in getting a berlin declaration signed by parliament, the commission and the members of the council. i believe that the overall feeling that such a declaration was possible on the basis of our cooperation is a value in itself, because it is based on the promise of all those involved to work together for the future of europe. if we look at the berlin declaration, the definition of our common values is a very important part. it is also said with great ambition that we have a common european social ideal and that we want to work together towards that social ideal. this ideal of society is based on values that are important to us, namely freedom, solidarity and justice. we are asked every day how we are going to do this. that is why i was very moved that today's sitting of the european parliament began with a clear statement by the members of parliament and the parliament on what is going on in zimbabwe. i made it clear in my speech in berlin on sunday that we must not be indifferent to the fate of the people of darfur. (applause) we cannot just dismiss this, but we must act on it. the council presidency will do its utmost to push through tougher resolutions in the un security council in order to finally achieve progress here, but if this is not possible in the un security council, we must also consider sanctions measures by the european union, because we must act and be active on this issue. (applause from the centre) i also made it clear on sunday - and i think this is our common concern - that 25 march is the day of independence from belarus. we call on our friends in belarus to recognize that they too have a right to the realization of european ideals and that we will consciously support them in this endeavour. (applause from the centre) i would also like to take this afternoon in the european parliament to say that we as the european union will make it very clear that it is completely unacceptable that 15 british soldiers are being captured and held by iran. the british people have our full solidarity here too. (applause from the centre) this also shows that our strength lies in our joint action. there are many things we can only do together. this means that if we are to feel responsible as member states of the european union in difficult times, we must also agree on as many issues as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this should be our guiding principle in all the difficult political decisions ahead. we turned to the berlin declaration on the future and said: we want to do two things. the first is to give us a renewed common basis by 2009 - as we said in the berlin declaration. i would like to make it clear once again, although i know that the vast majority of the european parliament is massively in favour of this, and i thank you for your support, that we are not going to vote for the report. a european parliament election campaign in 2009 in which we cannot tell people that we can enlarge the european union, how many members the future commission will have, that energy policy is a european responsibility, that we will work together on matters of internal security and legal policy on the basis of majority decisions as the requirements require, (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why it is important that we all find a solution together. the germans have been instructed to present a timetable for this. we will not solve the problem - i want to make that clear here - but this roadmap must also set the direction. we'll work on it with all our might. but i ask you, the house, to continue to support us on this path. we could use all the help we can get. (applause from the centre) in the berlin declaration we shared information on the future tasks of the european union, and there are still a number of tasks ahead of us between now and the june council, which i should like to briefly touch on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is good - especially with regard to citizens - that we have made progress on practical, everyday issues, that you can discuss roaming charges here in parliament, that payments between european countries are becoming easier, that we have succeeded in freeing up funds for agriculture under the european parliament's rules, that we have made progress on the open skies agreement, i.e. improved air traffic between europe and america. these are all very practical ways that people measure us. i am therefore very pleased that we have made progress on these issues and i hope that by the end of our presidency we will have added some more, including practical ones. we have three important summits ahead of us. the first is the eu-us summit on 30 april, where we will look more closely at the transatlantic economic partnership. the progress in aviation is a good sign. but we know that we could still unlock many synergies between europe and the united states of america. i would like to thank the commission and the members who support this. the transatlantic economic partnership has gained momentum and we are very confident that we can achieve real results at this summit at the end of april. secondly, the subject of energy and climate change will of course be on the agenda of this summit. we know that the european union's ideas are very far-reaching here, and we will try to promote these ideas so that they become global ideas. it is clear to me that emerging and developing countries will only join us if the developed countries set ambitious goals together. that's why we're going to promote it. i say deliberately promote, because you all know that this is a thick board that we have to drill. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. we will also use this eu-us summit to prepare, in part - though not in part - for the g8 summit in june in heiligendamm, germany, and we have arranged, on behalf of the german g8 presidency, for a meeting of the sherpas, not only from the g8 member countries, but also from the five so-called outreach states, i.e. china, india, brazil, mexico and south africa, to take place in early may. here we will discuss together the technical details of climate change, especially with a view to the exchange of new technologies and innovations. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the directive. the summit between the european union and russia will take place in may. the strategic partnership with russia is of the utmost importance to us, alongside the transatlantic partnership. i hope that we can overcome the obstacles which still prevent the commission from negotiating with russia - i thank the commission for working with incredible enthusiasm and commitment on this - because the negotiations on a new partnership agreement are of course essential, especially with regard to the issues of energy security and the energy partnership. that is why the eu-russia summit in samara, russia, is of the utmost importance. we shall then also have a summit between the european union and japan. this eu-japan summit should be about improving our economic cooperation, because the people of europe will be measuring all of us who represent europe by whether we can continue to safeguard for the next decades what has made europe strong, namely a community of values, a community of people who can live in their individual dignity and who have brought people prosperity and social cohesion. i said in my speech in berlin that the world is not waiting for europe. we have a responsibility to bring europe into this world with our ideas and to promote our ideas. that doesn't mean you can do it by waiting, by shutting yourself off, by being self-conscious, but you can only do it by aggressively promoting your values and beliefs. europe can only do this if it is capable of acting on its own, if it is not preoccupied with itself all day long and does not stand in its own way. that is why it is so important that we restore the capacity to act as quickly as possible so that europe can contribute to the people of this european union what they rightly expect, that they can look forward to a future of security and freedom. in that sense, we are united. thank you for your attention. (parliament adopted the resolution)
i would like to thank the president of the european council, and the chancellor, for this report. the applause showed that the european parliament greatly appreciates your great commitment to european politics.
president of the commission. mr president, firstly, i should like to welcome and strongly support the president of the european parliament’s initial declarations on zimbabwe and darfur. the human rights violations there are unacceptable. on behalf of the commission, i strongly condemn those violations and appeal to the authorities of the countries involved to respect the human rights of their citizens. (applause) last weekend, the europe of the past and the europe of the future met in berlin. as the declaration states, we celebrated 50 years of achievement in europe: peace, freedom and solidarity, and prosperity beyond the dreams of even the most optimistic founding father of europe. by one of those fortunate historical coincidences, we celebrated our unity in berlin, the city that was the symbol of a divided europe and is now a symbol of this new, enlarged, united europe, with 27 member states and almost 500 million citizens. the celebrations in berlin were a very inspiring moment for europe. i speak for many who were there when i say that we felt the european spirit among us. the berlin declaration proved worthy of the occasion, recommitting european institutions and member states to european values and european goals for the 21st century. i was delighted that the declaration, a proposal made by the commission in may 2006, became such a fitting centrepiece for the celebrations. i wish to congratulate chancellor merkel and the german presidency on the crucial role they played in this great european success. chancellor merkel, i believe that your personal commitment to it, your personal history and your understanding of the importance of freedom for your country and for europe was decisive in creating that spirit among all the leaders in berlin. (applause)i was also very proud to see the three european institutions sign the declaration. the presence of the european parliament is a sign of the democratic maturity of our union, which deserves to be emphasised. i must also praise the very useful role played by president pöttering on behalf of parliament in the run-up to the berlin declaration. today, before this house, i should like to make two points. let me start by emphasising the success of the twin-track strategy. taken together, the two european councils in march represented the twin-track strategy in action. the spring european council demonstrated the commitment to delivering results in the area of energy and the fight against climate change. the berlin declaration showed the commitment to agreeing on an institutional settlement before the 2009 european elections. this shows that it is wrong to see conflict between a pragmatic approach and a political vision. on the contrary, this commitment to a twin-track strategy is the right one. on the one hand it will deliver results and recreate the political momentum to settle the institutional problem. on the other hand, in order to deliver still better results, we really need more efficient, more democratic and more coherent institutions. a europe of results is a political vision based on constructive pragmatism, designed to address the concerns of our citizens and to provide european solutions for european problems. we also need a treaty settlement because of the great global challenges that europe faces in the coming years. only together, in a more effective way, can the european union tackle the challenges of the globalised world. it is obvious that even the biggest member states cannot tackle climate change, energy security or mass migration alone. they cannot respond alone to the increased competitiveness of this global economy. we need to do it together in a true spirit of solidarity. i believe this is the message from berlin and that this message has now been translated into an equal commitment to find a solution to the institutional question before the 2009 elections. (applause)there is another reason why the commission strongly supports a rapid but ambitious institutional settlement. there is no doubt that the failure of the ratification process of the constitutional treaty leaves a permanent shadow of doubt hanging over the european union. even when there are significant results, such as those achieved at the spring european council, there is always this doubt, this negativism, this pessimism, this scepticism. we are always confronted with a question that deserves to be answered: ‘how can you convince us’, the most sceptical ask, ‘that you are serious about addressing those global issues when you are not even able to settle matters relating to your own rules and to the institutions in which you are working?’ what credibility do the european union institutions and european leaders have when they fail to come to a consensus on those issues? i therefore believe that we need progress in this regard. failure to agree on an institutional settlement will cause divisions which could threaten our common values. european history should remind us that we can never take the great achievements of peace, democracy, freedom and solidarity for granted. nobody should take those achievements for granted. we need permanently to nurture our progress in terms of politics and values. if we are to preserve and protect those common values – those we have named in our declaration, the inviolable dignity of the individual, freedom, justice and solidarity: all those values that make us not just a market but a political community and a union – we need to reform the institutions of our community of law. the preservation of our common values is a permanent work in progress, which i call the ‘unfinished european adventure’. to have a better europe, we need better institutions to deliver better results. i think the political will is there and we must now produce results in that area too. during the informal summit after our celebration, i asked member states to keep up the momentum during the coming months. i asked for the active cooperation of national governments. all member states signed the treaty, which was impossible to ratify as a result of two negative popular votes. however, the commitment undertaken obliges all member states to work in a constructive manner for a joint solution. as president of the european commission, it is my responsibility to call on national governments to make a special effort in the coming months and to support the german presidency in its very important efforts to reach a solution. (applause)let me repeat the message that i sent to the european heads of state and government and in berlin. it is important for the future of the european union to understand that when we speak about europe, it is not just about the european institutions: the european commission or the european parliament in brussels or strasbourg. i said during that ceremony, at which some of you were present, that the european union is not a foreign power invading our countries, it is our common project. europe is not ‘them’, it is ‘us’. i said to the heads of state and government that it is tempting but dishonest for national politicians to take all the credit and give brussels all the blame. let us resist that temptation. (applause)this is the ethic of european responsibility which we all must share. after berlin, there is a political commitment to settling the institutional impasse. the commission will fully support the german presidency, working with the other member states, in efforts to reach a clear and precise roadmap and, if possible, a precise mandate by june. let us not forget, as i said during last weekend’s celebration, that this is the kind of historic test that a generation of political leaders faces just once in its lifetime. i shall conclude with the same appeal i made in berlin. with pride in our past, let us look at the future with confidence. let us work together – the european commission, the european parliament, member states and european citizens – to take the great legacy received from our founding fathers, to take those great values into the 21st century. (applause)
i thank you very much, mr president of the commission, for this speech. i would also like to thank you for your good cooperation on the berlin declaration. it was your idea that the three institutions should make a joint statement. i thank you very much, mr barroso, president of the commission.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the term 'historical' is used in an inflationary sense, but this should not prevent us from calling historical situations such. we are in a historic situation. i would like to say to all the critics of the berlin declaration: what would have happened if it had not been made? that is why i congratulate you, madam president-in-office. you've done an excellent job of it. you haven't had a chance to look at your cards in a long time. that was tactically clever. and you have achieved with the berlin declaration what was possible at this time. this was a positive step and a success for europe. but the historic phase begins now, because now the question is: what's next? it is quite clear - and i regret it personally - that the constitutional treaty as it is on the table will not be put into effect. we'll have to live with that. there will be no such constitution. that doesn't mean there aren't any, even if the treaty isn't called the constitution. we germans have lived for 60 years with a constitution, and it is a great constitution. we are at the crucial stage where we have to answer the question: what is the future of this continent? there are those who want a different europe, who reject a revision of the treaties and who think that nice is already too much, and yet we are still enlarging at any cost. i say to those people, on behalf of my group and i believe also on behalf of the overwhelming majority in this house: no, the process of european integration is not over, it must continue, and we want it to continue. (applause from the centre) we want him to go on because we need him. and to all those who want enlargement of the european union, we must say: without the reformed union and without the renewed treaty, there will be no enlargements. i say to mr kaczyński and mr klaus that if you prevent the reform of the european union, you will be doing croatia a great deal of harm. (applause from the centre) don't let others pay the price for your politics! why is what we're doing now historic? i would hope that those who support the process of integration would show the same enthusiasm as you, madam president-in-office. i would like to see the same voice among the supporters of an integrated europe as we hear from the opponents of an integrated europe. a little more combativeness is needed now, because europe thinks it is big. but it's actually small. the 500 million inhabitants of the 27 member states make up 8% of the world's population, with a declining trend. china and india, they're big countries. the united states of america, with its economic and military power, is a superpower. if the europe of integration fails and we get a europe of different speeds, if this small europe weakens its own strength by breaking up into individual parts, then it will fail. that is why we need all 27 member states and european integration. she's our future. (applause from the centre) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. if europe were to fail, more than a constitutional treaty would fail. it's a failed idea. and what idea is that? what we have left behind, and what we have overcome in 50 years of integration, we can call by name: hatred and intolerance, the quest for great power and the exclusion of minorities, religious intolerance and the persecution of political dissent. we have overcome the quest for greatness by territorial integration. we have overcome social exclusion by combining economic progress with social security. we have overcome ethnic, religious and cultural intolerance through the concept of integration. but what i have described is still there: hatred, exclusion, oppression, even the quest for great power, especially now again in our union and not only in eastern europe, everywhere in europe. it would be a blow to our international community if we were to destroy integration. that is why those who are fighting for the continuation of the integration process and for a deepening of the union and who are defending the european values that have made us so strong and a model are called upon to fight with angela merkel as president of the council . we cannot allow the commission to say in negotiations with other countries: if you want to join the union, you must undergo a process of transformation which will override everything that has been valid for you until now. but even we who are asking for it are not in a position to carry out our own reforms. how can we be credible? (applause from the right) we are in a historic phase. you, madam president-in-office of the council - i must admit that as a german social democrat i find it difficult to say this - have in germany, but especially here, on this path the socialists at your side. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, martin schulz. the president was not entirely correct. i would ask that in future we not always take as an example the length of speaking time, but rather the quality. the president cannot go any further with his objectivity.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. when we talk about the european dream today, we usually refer to the american jeremy rifkin. the eu leaders and their sherpas do not dream, and certainly not together. the berlin declaration is neither a dream nor a reality. on the contrary, i am. it is yet another refusal to accept reality which prevents the heads of state from seeing clearly the crisis in which the union is caught, and therefore there is of course no initiative to find a way out. the danger of disintegration and renationalization is thus growing. there is no rejection of a neoliberal, socially and ecologically destructive free trade area or of further militarisation of the eu. the declaration does not say a word about the situation of millions of people in the eu who are affected by poverty, longterm unemployment, precariousness and social exclusion. they are not de facto part of it. the message of the declaration is addressed only to the governments themselves, not to the people of the eu member states. the commission has not yet taken a decision on this matter. commentators are talking about a test case for the constitutional process. the commission has already made a number of proposals. transmitting means that the future constitution or the founding treaty will become a case for secret diplomacy without any involvement of civil society. after that, it's just a matter of putting pressure on the heads of government. in the event that they do not follow, some of my german colleagues in the european parliament are waving the exit ball. i think that is a very democratic argument indeed. i mean it the way i say it. if the eu's rulers were really serious about their promises to put the eu on a viable and renewed common basis by the 2009 elections, then the consequence would be: the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. the debate on the european union which the majority of the people living here want should be opened. the third part of the present draft constitution should be deleted in its entirety. the detailed policy objectives and targets need to be replaced by clear competences and procedural rules that allow for different policies. article i, paragraph 41, point 3, must be replaced by a clear prohibition of aggressive war and the establishment of international law, and the arms agency already operating in the run-up to the eu constitutional treaty must be closed.
mr allister, we congratulate you on your appointment to the government of northern ireland. you're from northern ireland.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. madam president, your presidency gives us europeans courage. for the first time in a long time, we are getting the impression that europe could again emerge from the impasse of the unratified treaty. we will not have to go through a constitution, but the constitution of the european union will have to be adapted to the new circumstances. there is no doubt about that. it takes courage and leadership, and you've shown that so far. we will continue to support you on your journey! but you don't just have to win over the heads of state and government - which is hard enough - to this project. the european union must be won back by the peoples of europe. because the eu is in danger of losing the trust of its peoples, and perhaps it has already done so. the question is whether the integration advocated by martin schulz is the right recipe, despite the fact that i share this basic approach, and integration is at the heart of the european path. but more integration will not secure the approval of the europeans. i therefore appeal to you, madam chancellor, to become the spokesman for those who are convinced europeans and also support the integrationist path, but who are dissatisfied with the appearance of this european union. the source of the discomfort, the distance you mentioned, is over-regulatory legislation which makes decisions here that are seen as brussels trinkets. if you, mr president of the commission, want an example of this from your own responsibility, i would recommend that you study the directive on soil protection in the evening just before you go to bed. i assure you, you will have nightmares! the discomfort with the european union, whose historic successes we rightly celebrate with pride, makes it clear that europe does not need more integration in general now, europe needs borders, both externally and internally. integration is right, but it has gone to the wrong level. we have too much at home, and too little at home, where the citizens want more common security and foreign policy. the european union is not the only one that has to deal with this problem, and it is not the only one. the european union must be freed from its encrustation of integration. your discontinuity is absolutely correct. a bill that is not completed by the end of a legislature must be repealed. it creates clarity, it clarifies responsibility and it creates trust. that is why i wish you, madam chancellor, to win back the confidence of the european peoples. you have a chance!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. we must all make a concerted effort. that's what we're going to do.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to congratulate you on two sentences in the berlin declaration. one, we are united in our happiness. that is a beautiful statement, and i think it stands quite clearly against the whiners and doubters who are always complaining that the eu is a forced event. it's really about being united for our happiness. i also think that this very simple formulation has a tone that is understandable to every citizen. i would also like to congratulate you on the fact that you have succeeded in including 2009 in the berlin declaration as the binding date for a renewed foundation of the european union. this is so concrete that none of your colleagues in the government can withdraw from it without suffering a very considerable loss of face. it's good that there's this joint statement. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. that is why we are hoping for the second half of your presidency. we hope to hear suggestions on how to involve citizens. we wish you every success. whenever you need support to involve citizens, you can count on us.
i would like to thank you, mr voggenhuber, also for your cooperation with the president in parliament, which made this a success.
thank you, and best wishes for your german course.
thank you very much, mr. poignant, especially for your personal remarks.
mr duff, i would like to thank you for the contribution you made during our consultation and information process in parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the flowers on behalf of my group have already been handed over by mr voggenhuber. i do not think there is anyone in my group who doubts that you have earned it. we are, however, already asking ourselves what will happen next. i would like to stress this again at the end of the debate. the spirit of the berlin declaration is not, in our opinion, compatible with the idea that what remains of the constitution should ultimately serve only to make the technocrats and bureaucrats in brussels work a little more smoothly in the future. we are concerned about this constitutional project and we are concerned about making europe more democratic as a whole. that is why we regard the catalogue of fundamental rights that has been mentioned as an essential part of this. the question of how to get there and how to organise citizens' involvement is not trivial for us, but we believe that we have learned from the referendums in france and the netherlands and that it is important to involve all citizens in europe equally. there must not be two speeds, one involving citizens and the other not. we'd like to be clear on that. that would be helpful.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to sum up this debate very briefly, for which i thank you very much. it has become clear here today, certainly across party lines, that there is a common will in the european parliament, in its very large majority, to take this europe forward, and with a bit of optimism. that is what the chairman of the socialist group, mr schulz, said. i too would like to commend him today, if i may do so as president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are still sceptics who doubt whether we really need such a roadmap now and whether we should really be able to come before the citizens in 2009 with a renewed foundation - as we said in the berlin declaration. to these skeptics, we should say, we are aware, as the german presidency, together with parliament and the commission, that this is also about the europe of projects, as we have called it, that is to say, very concrete progress that people can also see. it is not just about regulating voting procedures and institutional matters now, but also about showing people that we are doing something that is of great importance to the lives of every individual. the more of this we achieve in this half-year, during which we also have other important issues to resolve, the easier it will be to take these other issues forward as well. in any case, our efforts over the next three months will be directed in parallel to both, and i would like to thank you very much for the fact that parliament is dealing with many of these practical issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also talked about agriculture. these are all things that people ask: 'what is europe doing now?' so it is good that this has now been achieved. the question has also been raised here as to how the berlin declaration came about. i think it was churchill who said of the treaties of rome: 'nothing as important as the treaties of rome has ever been done in such back rooms without anyone noticing.' we can't do that again in this media age. but i think we have to find the right mix -- also in the coming months -- between participation and how we get things done, and that's not always the best thing to do in the open marketplace. that is why it was not that the president had simply agreed the berlin declaration with me in secret talks 'by order of the mufti', but that there was of course a kind of involvement of the respective political groups in parliament. we then tried to reflect on the proposals, as we did with the commission and the 27 member states. but we also know that democracy means that everyone can find himself in the results. sometimes this can only be done in parallel and you cannot report on all of this at the same time. but i think we should let the public know what's at stake. so i'd like to ask you something. mr president, i would like to make a suggestion to parliament, because the council is not the right institution to celebrate public participation particularly well. e parliament has committees, and perhaps it would be possible for you to hold a hearing of civil society, for example in may, the council would also send a representative there where what is being said about the expectations of this process of a renewed common basis in civil society is addressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. (applause from the centre) i think that we will have a lot to do with each other in the next three months in that sense. the first three months were fun. why shouldn't it be the same in the second half? thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank mrs merkel very much. the most important thing is that it has become clear that we believe in europe again and that we trust each other. this trust between the european parliament and you as the representative of the european council has grown tremendously in recent weeks. i can say for many of us, and for myself in particular, that we have enjoyed working together and look forward to working together again - also with the commission. good luck to you. we're on your side.
thank you very much, józsef szájer, also for the cooperation in the internal coordination, in which you were involved.
thank you very much, iñigo méndez de vigo. thank you very much. i would like to thank you very much for your cooperation in the preparation of this report as the coordinator of the epp-ed group.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. madam chancellor, it is a great honour to speak under your presidency. let me make a few comments. firstly, and this is what the berlin declaration has made clear, europe has achieved through european unification a level of peace, freedom and prosperity that has never been seen before in its entire history, and is probably unique in human history. secondly, it has become clear that we face challenges that nation states can no longer tackle alone in many areas, such as terrorism, globalisation, foreign and security policy and energy security. the combination of these two factors shows that the success story of the european union has been everywhere we have used the community method, worked with a common legal order and applied the monetary method. i believe that this is the reason why the constitutional process should also be conducted on this basis, because we are weak wherever we are intergovernmental. this also means that, as we now enter the new phase after the berlin declaration and the constitutional process is to be restarted, we will attach importance to the observance of these principles of the community method. this constitutional treaty already contains much of what we need to meet the challenges. the constitution does not solve a single problem by itself, but it provides the framework of legitimacy and decision-making so that we can do this. i hope that for this reason all 27 member states - and this with the support of the commission - are clear that they must have good reasons for not following such a process. we must therefore ensure that the european union as a community of 27 meets these challenges and does not break up into small blocs which would arise if the community as a whole were unable to meet them.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in your contribution you have just addressed a number of important questions also in relation to financial services. i can assure you that the council attaches the utmost importance to this aspect. i would like to reiterate that the european financial system is also seen as an important contribution to the lisbon strategy and plays a crucial role in consolidating the framework for financial stability in the european union. the aim is to improve the efficiency of financial supervision without imposing excessive supervisory burdens on the financial sector. this too should not restrict competition. let me draw attention to three main points in the council conclusions mentioned above. firstly, the council has stressed the importance of fair and non-discriminatory national supervisory practices in order to create a level playing field in the european union. at the same time, however, it has also stressed the importance of a proper balance between the obligations of the home country and those of the host country. the importance of adequate and independent financial supervision for ensuring financial stability was also reiterated. secondly, the council has asked the three level 3 committees to take into account in their efforts to achieve convergence of rules and practices the obstacles identified in their work and reports, as well as the report of the financial services committee on supervisory convergence. the aim is to develop common formats for reporting by financial institutions to supervisors in order to avoid duplication of costs. thirdly, the council supported the commission's intention to ensure that competition and aid rules are also respected within the limits of its powers. the council considered it a priority to promote the work of the three level 3 committees. to do this, they need appropriate monitoring tools. the council conclusions of may 2006 also contain a comprehensive short and medium-term action programme in this area, based on a report by the financial services committee. a milestone is the thorough revision of the supervisory rules for banks, insurance companies and investment firms. these will put supervisory cooperation on a new footing, which will be beneficial to financial stability and the competitiveness of our financial sector. the afd report identified three challenges that suggested that further action was needed. i believe that these challenges are particularly relevant for the period immediately ahead. first, there is a need to further strengthen convergence and cooperation in the area of supervision. secondly, the efficiency of the supervisory system must be increased and thirdly, international supervision must be improved in view of the increase in cross-border financial groups. in view of these challenges, the action programme approved by the council last may combines several instruments. these aim to promote the emergence of a european supervisory culture and a procedure for mediation and delegation, as well as arrangements for electronic data exchange and common reporting formats. i note that the muscat report also emphasized the latter aspect at the european parliament level. i welcome the agreement of the two sides here. the financial services committee has been asked to monitor in particular the progress made by the three level 3 committees in implementing the different instruments. the afd has also been entrusted with the task of monitoring the convergence of supervisory powers at an appropriate level. i know that the commission is also paying close attention to these aspects and i am confident that the european parliament will also promote this process in its dialogue with the level 3 committees. further findings are to be expected from the work of the interinstitutional monitoring group. i would like to turn now to the long-term perspective and the question of the approach to supervisory issues. in addition to the existing challenges already mentioned, afd must also take into account the issues arising from market developments when setting long-term strategic priorities. in this context, the afd has recently set up a new subgroup which will present a report on long-term supervisory issues by autumn 2007. this new strand of work will be based on the following bottom-up approach: further fundamental changes in supervisory tasks should only be made on the basis of identified problems. i would also like to emphasise that the general issue of supervisory convergence must be seen in the context of the consolidation of markets and financial institutions. i am therefore particularly pleased that the european parliament and the council were able to agree in march on a text primarily on the financial participation directive. this is a clear sign of our shared commitment to improving the eu framework for the day-to-day work of our supervisory authorities. in conclusion, i would like to stress the following: in these areas we must take account of all the challenges facing the eu institutions. these include strengthening financial stability through supervisory arrangements and procedures and promoting european competitiveness. both are intended to facilitate the consolidation of our financial economy. it must be carried out in a process which is also conducive to the protection of consumer interests. the council is cooperating with the commission on all these aspects and we also welcome the strong interest of the european parliament, which is also evident in this debate. i would like to thank you very much for your commitment to further progress.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, the european financial sector has changed dramatically over the last few years. capital markets have expanded and are increasingly integrated. new investment techniques have emerged. the consolidation of the banking sector has accelerated. pan-european conglomerates now play a major role on all national markets. these changes are positive for the efficiency of our financial industry and should be welcomed. but they also present new challenges to policymakers. we must ensure that our arrangements for financial supervision are adapted to the needs of a more integrated eu financial sector. this is vital for financial stability and for the competitiveness of our industry. greater cooperation and convergence between european supervisors is of utmost importance in this context. it has been one of my priorities since i joined the commission and will remain so until the end of my mandate. let me briefly recall what the commission has already done to foster a more effective and efficient supervisory system in europe. under the lamfalussy process it has created european committees of supervisors in the areas of securities, banking and insurance. these committees have already led to greater supervisory cooperation and more convergence in supervisory practices. i expect them to continue and accelerate work in this regard. it is crucial for achieving coordination in crisis situations. the commission has pushed for more streamlined supervision of large financial institutions, in particular through the establishment of the consolidating supervisor concept in the capital requirements directives. the consolidating supervisor is responsible for ensuring proper information exchange between supervisors, central banks and finance ministries in the event of a crisis. his role is key and i therefore intend to propose further and more ambitious steps towards consolidating supervision in the area of insurance in the framework of the solvency ii project. in investment services, we have the principle of more central control, with some limited exceptions for branches. in order to deal more specifically with financial stability issues, my departments have set work in motion on five interconnected areas on which clarity is required if we want to improve our ability to respond to financial crisis. these are liquidity arrangements, crisis management, lender-of-last-resort issues, deposit guarantee schemes and the winding-up of financial institutions. there will be a commission conference on these matters on 26 june, in which mrs berès, as chairwoman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, will also take part. the commission’s efforts have to be seen in conjunction with the work undertaken in the ecofin council. a crisis-simulation exercise took place in 2006. as a follow-up to that exercise, the council will reflect in 2007 on how better to address cross-border crisis situations and clarify burden-sharing arrangements. in addition, the financial services committee has initiated work on issues related to improvement of supervisory efficiency. the interinstitutional monitoring committee on the lamfalussy process will also complete its final report in 2007. i hope it will contain useful recommendations as to how the committees of supervisors can improve their work and deepen their cooperation. this would place them in an even better position to address possible financial stability issues in the future. towards the end of this year, the commission will also produce its own assessment of the way in which the lamfalussy process works. clearly, the functioning of the committees of supervisors will be a crucial aspect of this overall assessment. i look forward to hearing parliament’s views. i am convinced that through close cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission we can move this debate forward. conclusions will need to be drawn from the various ongoing activities. i am open to suggestions on how to go about this. i think, however, that it would be too early to create a committee of wise persons at this stage. i would rather await the completion of the different initiatives later this year before envisaging the next move. let me conclude. eu financial markets are strong. we do not have a broken supervisory system in need of repair. major progress has been made over the last few years in terms of modernising eu supervisory arrangements, but further improvements are also necessary. they are the consequence of integration. on this we are all agreed. we should continue our efforts to make the lamfalussy structure the regulatory vehicle for delivering the effective, efficient and converged supervision required by a single market in financial services. work has been set in motion in order to determine how the lamfalussy structure and our financial stability arrangements can be further improved to meet the demands that arise from closer european integration. i look forward to discussing with parliament in due course what precise initiatives may be required to respond to the problems that have been identified, so as to equip our european financial sector with the best possible supervisory system. this is critical, because top-class supervisory and regulatory structures are crucial for long-term eu capital market competitors in the global economy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is good that mrs berès's question on the committee on economic and monetary affairs is being discussed and answered here today. this is a seamless follow-up to the muscat report, but also to yesterday's discussion in committee, including with you, commissioner! the crisis simulation to check the financial stability of the eu, which was presented at the ecofin meeting in helsinki last september, has indeed revealed deficits. this scenario constantly evolving financial instruments such as hedge funds and derivatives illustrates the need for further discussions that take consumer safety into account. we therefore need a system of functioning, interlinked supervisory rules and practices in the european union. consumer protection, but also the effectiveness of the financial sector and the stability of financial markets are the main objectives of financial supervision, while at the same time helping the economy to fulfil its potential and creativity. therefore, good supervision must be based on the risks involved and be based on principles rather than on detailed individual considerations. it must not be an additional burden on businesses, the rules must be developed in close contact with the financial sector and cross-border financial markets must be treated in the same way as pan-european and global markets. supervision should be limited to what is really necessary and meaningful. existing measures should be applied more carefully and in a market-friendly manner. unnecessary strain must be avoided. at the moment, i am firmly opposed to a european central bank operating in addition to and in parallel with national supervisory authorities, which would eliminate the principle of subsidiarity of the eu and lack any democratic legitimacy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us wait and see how the supervisory bodies of the newly formed 27 come together and do their work. we do not need a single, centralised supervisory structure, but a common supervisory culture based on common values and objectives.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the members for their very valuable contributions. as i said earlier, the development of financial supervision is of critical importance. a stable financial environment is a prerequisite for the economic growth that the eu needs, and the protection of consumers. so the prevention of financial crises is important. supervision needs to be as efficient and effective as possible. we need to make practices of national supervisory authorities converge in order to minimise the burdens on cross-border firms. we need a common supervisory culture: more supervisors doing more things the same way. these are important issues that i look forward to working on with you.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the process of determining the future status of kosovo - the most pressing political issue in the western balkans at the moment - is entering its final and decisive phase. on 26 march the un secretary-general transmitted the status proposal of the un special envoy, martti ahtisaari, to the security council in new york. it is expected that on 3 april the special envoy will personally explain his proposal to the members of the security council. the european union foreign ministers discussed the proposed solution in detail at the council meeting on 12 february. they expressed their full support for president ahtisaari. they noted that the status proposal aims to promote the building of a multi-ethnic and democratic society in kosovo based on the rule of law. they also expressed their conviction that the proposals of the special envoy would lay the foundations for sustainable economic and political development of kosovo and contribute to the stabilisation of the region. in february and march, further rounds of talks between belgrade and pristina on the proposals were held, first at expert level and then on 10 march at the highest political level. as a result of the talks, president ahtisaari has further extended some of the already very wide-ranging provisions on the protection of the serbs of kosovo and the serbian orthodox church. the talks, however, have shown that the differences between the two sides are irreconcilable. priština has finally agreed to the status package, while belgrade has rejected it. president ahtisaari then declared the talks closed on 10 march and announced that he would immediately submit his status proposal to the un security council. the presidency is right to do so. the eu is also committed to the development of a common defence policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. on the contrary, the positions of the parties had become even more rigid in the last round of negotiations. the process of determining kosovo's status has entered its final and decisive phase with the submission of the status proposal to the united nations security council last monday. it is crucial, as you have just pointed out, mr lagendijk, that the european union should be united and speak with one voice. the more visible the unity of the eu, the less risk there is of a permanent blockade in the security council. the european union presidency expects the security council to live up to its responsibilities and hopes that it will approve the proposal in a timely manner. a few words on the future role of the european union in kosovo. the european union is ready to play an important role in the implementation of the status regime. the european union's preparatory work for our contribution to an international presence in kosovo after the status issue has been settled is progressing well. the eu's preparatory work focuses on three areas: firstly, the support for the proposed international civilian presence. our eu preparation team for this future international civilian presence is also working closely with kfor, unmik and the kosovo leadership on the ground to prepare specifically for the establishment and operation of the international civilian office (ico), and secondly for the preparation of the rule of law mission of the esdp, which we have already made great progress in planning. we expect the european union to be given a mandate to monitor, accompany and advise local authorities in the wider area of the rule of law. we also expect the mandate to cover executive powers in some police areas, including the maintenance of public order in the event of public gatherings and riots, and in the judicial and customs areas. our planning is flexible and will be adapted to developments in the situation as necessary. thirdly, preparatory work will focus on the concretisation of kosovo's european perspective and on support for its economic and social development. in this context, we welcome the european parliament's interest in kosovo, which is also reflected in this draft report. your report, mr lagendijk, entitled 'the future of kosovo and the role of the european union', is a valuable contribution to the international effort to promote a lasting solution in kosovo. in conclusion, i would like to point out once again that the process of clarifying the status of kosovo is entering a crucial phase. the eu is faced with a twofold challenge. first, to maintain its unity in the joint search with our international partners for a lasting solution for kosovo, serbia and the region as a whole and, second, to intensify its preparations to support international efforts to implement the status. the kosovo status dispute is the end point of the dissolution of the former yugoslavia. it is a case sui generis and therefore cannot set any precedent for other so-called frozen conflicts. the status solution is a basic prerequisite for the stabilisation of kosovo, serbia and the whole region. lasting stability in the western balkans the conflicts of the 1990s have proved this is a central, indeed vital, issue for european security. as in many other areas, our unity and solidarity are essential keys to achieving a lasting solution.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, first of all let me thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr lagendijk, and the members for their substantive and intensive work on this report. as i said here before, the report and proposal of the special envoy, mr ahtisaari, were handed to the security council on monday. i join the un secretary-general, ban ki-moon, and the eu presidency in supporting the report and the proposal put forward by mr ahtisaari. i believe that we can all agree that in an ideal world, the two parties would have found an acceptable compromise between themselves. over the past 14 months of negotiations, common ground was found on several practical aspects of the settlement. unfortunately, belgrade and priština remained diametrically opposed on the core question of the status itself. mr ahtisaari’s proposal is designed to foster the building of a democratic, multi-ethnic society in kosovo based on the rule of law. it contains wide-ranging provisions intended to secure the future of all communities in kosovo, as well as protection of religious sites and cultural heritage. as mr lagendijk rightly underlined, the essence of a decision on kosovo is european unity, here and in new york. we need to support mr ahtisaari and his proposal with consistent determination in the un security council. there is no gain in delaying the decision. the un has been running kosovo for eight years and, clearly, the status quo is not sustainable. therefore i expect the security council to live up to its responsibilities in the spirit of responsible multilateralism and bring the process to an early and successful conclusion. once the status issue is settled, the implementation phase will start, which will of course bring its own genesis. here too, the eu must work as one. the eu will have to play a leading role both in the running of international civilian missions and in support of kosovo’s european prospects. this will require deployment of all our instruments and considerable resources. we have no exit strategy, only an entry strategy, in the western balkans and in kosovo. let me underline that local ownership and partnership with the international community is the key to success for status implementation. the eu and its international partners cannot substitute kosovo’s own efforts, neither in terms of political will nor in terms of resources. but we can assist, and the status settlement will not come for free. kosovo’s financial needs after the granting of status cannot yet be fully known, but early estimates suggest that international assistance of around eur 1.3 to 1.5 billion may be required for the first three years after the status settlement. there will be four main areas to cover: kosovo’s share of the yugoslav debt, the cost of status implementation, economic development needs and the cost of the international presence, including the planned esdp mission, which is expected to be the largest civilian crisis management mission the european union has ever undertaken. the eu’s overall presence in kosovo is likely to be in the order of 1500 to 2000 international staff. we all know that the eu currently faces important foreign policy challenges in other theatres, including the middle east, afghanistan and darfur. kosovo is not the only funding priority. but europe has a special responsibility in kosovo, which is on our borders and is our future home territory. at the eu foreign ministers’ meeting in bremen on friday, the gymnich meeting, i will stress that resources cannot come from the eu budget alone. eu member states and our partners in the international community must share responsibility. the commission will put together a funding package that reflects the scale of our responsibility. i count on your support for this, because strong support from the budgetary authority is needed to put together a credible funding package. a final word on serbia: let me assure you that the eu remains fully committed to serbia’s eu prospects. we are ready to work with a new government towards this goal. it is now up to the new government of serbia to meet the conditions for resuming the negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union. strong engagement with serbia is essential to bringing the status process to a successful conclusion. a serbia that has confidence in its european future will be helped to overcome the legacy of the past.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on international trade. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i shall deal with just a few of the points we discussed in the committee on international trade. i have been to kosovo several times myself, both in pristina and in mitrovica, and i can assess the situation fairly well. we are particularly concerned about the fact that the economic and trade situation is being looked at very closely, because we believe that only economic stability can provide long-term security for the whole region. the situation is extremely problematic. the infrastructure is very weak, key industries need to be completely modernised and renovated. there are small and mediumsized enterprises which are very innovative but which need much more financial support, and a very young population which needs to be integrated and needs the jobs. all this can only be achieved within the framework of european union integration. but we must not be talking about integration in the sense of immediately advocating accession to the eu, but rather about fully developing the concept of free trade areas so that it really works. the commission has already signed agreements with many balkan countries, but they must be able to function effectively. we also strongly urge that the excellent work done so far by the european union, especially in the area of the fourth pillar, be transferred to the new structures so that there is no complete overhaul of the systems.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in 1912, kosovo was awarded to serbia without a referendum as a region inhabited by 90% of albanians. it went through a changing fate until the end of the 1980s, when the war criminal milošević abolished the autonomy of kosovo against the yugoslav constitution. a brutal apartheid regime was installed, albanians were not allowed to attend kindergartens, schools and universities, they were banned from working, they were not even allowed to go to public swimming pools. there was a system of unimaginable cruelty that i know from personal experience. then came the mass expulsion of 1998, which could only be stopped by nato intervention, when the majority of the country's population had already been expelled beyond the country's borders. the united nations established an administration, and now we are facing a new beginning. what can the future hold? if we do our duty, if we resolve the status issue quickly, in agreement and with one voice, and if we, as the eu, also take responsibility for the international presence in kosovo, then kosovo can soon be a multiethnic democracy with the most extensive minority rights in the world. the ahtisaari report is the most comprehensive minority legislation in the world, with an eu perspective and also an economic perspective. i would like to support mrs mann here. the land was neglected for decades. it is necessary to invest in a young, unemployed population, and this will only happen if the status issue is settled, if there is legal certainty - that is why we must focus on justice and home affairs - if there is peace and if there are good neighbourly relations with serbia. i can only appeal to the serbian politicians: general de gaulle once spoke of the paix des braves, the peace of the brave. the serbs and albanians will then have a good, common european future as neighbouring european peoples ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. there is no simple solution to the future of the rest of yugoslavia, including kosovo. but putting off the problems does not make them easier to solve. on the contrary, i am. i am therefore pleased that after eight years of international management, a concrete proposal is on the table of the un security council. i would appeal to you to accept this proposal because it is essentially the same as the report by joost lagendijk. the kosovo people, regardless of their ethnic origin, but also the serbs, must emerge from the state of uncertainty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. any delay in the present decision and the subsequent european integration would otherwise be costly for the region, but also for the european union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not our group will vote against this report by an overwhelming majority. this is mainly because international law is being treated very negligently here, as is the case in the ahtisaari report itself. ahtisaari has suggested that there should be something like a follow-up project to unmik by the eu. that is, unmik would continue through other means, including the so-called kosovo trust agency, which has been mainly carrying out privatisations in kosovo, which has led to very problematic conditions on the ground. we are quite clear: the european parliament is taking a unilateral and conflict-enhancing position. we would like to remind you of paragraph 3 of the resolution adopted by the committee on foreign affairs, which states: 'we consider that all arrangements concerning the future status of kosovo must be in accordance with international law'. i hope that sentence will remain in this report. i hear there's already some initial requests to take him out. we all know that the situation in kosovo today is linked to the nato war of aggression against yugoslavia, and i keep asking - i have asked the commissioner before - what is the european union going to do if serbia and russia in particular continue to say 'no'? i have not received a reply to this question to date, which means that the intention is to act against the will of these two countries. the majority of my group does not share this view and we shall therefore vote against this report!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to congratulate mr lagendijk on his achievements. i wouldn't have to talk at all and i could just join you, like johannes and mrs. kallenbach. but still. i 'd like to send one thing in advance: after such debates, one is very quickly suspected outside, especially in the region, of being anti-serb or pro-albanian. i'd like to avoid that. we have been trying for years to help the people of serbia and kosovo to a peaceful and prosperous future. the conditions for this are difficult and mr ahtisaari's solution allows people to finally leave behind the poisonous past of milošević. i do not know whether that is fair, mr tabajdi. fair solutions are very difficult to achieve. but i know of no other way than the one now proposed. there have been no real negotiations between the serbs and the albanians. the extremes were so far apart that they were never negotiated. therefore, an extension of the procedure would not be in the interests of the inventor at all. i also understand that no serbian government will ever sign off on the loss of kosovo. but if serbian politicians are honest - some are when you talk to them - they also know that there will be no peaceful future with kosovo on their territory. and the people of serbia and kosovo, especially the young people, deserve that peaceful future. the politicians should also ask themselves who in serbia really wants to bear the financial and all the political consequences of kosovo remaining in serbia. the albanians must make all this possible for the serbs who want to live in their homeland in kosovo, including their return. the ahtisaari plan is the only basis for peaceful coexistence. unfortunately, the discussions, again today, often fail to take account of the years of the apartheid regime from 1989 to 1998. i have noticed this with mr plouger, for example. i think the beginning was not the nato attack, but the abolition of the autonomy statute. the security council would do well to work quickly to get the knot in place so that we can continue to work and help both serbs and albanians on their peaceful path to the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the one-minute explanations under rule 144.
i have to say, madam president, i also had the impression that mr evans and mrs gil were very enthusiastic about their group chairmen. i would like to draw your attention and that of the other members of this house to a very serious matter which is causing us great concern. in recent months, we have seen an increase in attacks on journalists in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in bulgaria, journalists who have expressed criticism of a far-right party, which is represented in this house, have been physically, mentally and materially threatened by representatives of that party. it is a party which, as i said, is also represented in this house, and we are well advised and called upon to draw attention to the fact that the increasing aggressiveness against journalists whose opinions are not liked by certain political forces is taking place not only outside the european union but also within it. i ask for attention to the protection, independence and integrity of journalists!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the rapporteur has put forward a good report and parliament must insist that the commission and the council make use of this good report. we need co-decision, especially since everything that is substantially new in this regulation falls within the scope of the internal market. the agricultural part was already regulated and could be taken over in principle. the double legal basis is therefore necessary, also because you have rightly stated that many details should be regulated in the implementing rules. the parliament must reserve the right to be heard on these implementing provisions, as does the council. you know we have a policy now. if we had the constitution, this question would be solved anyway. we're gonna have to clinch something in the next few days. on the question of gmos, i am pleased that you have found that 0.9% is not a contamination limit. it's a labelling limit, there's no right to contamination. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not affected by the pollution of the environment. we are trying to go down sooner, because we say that in the case of organic products, any contamination must be completely excluded. i hope you will understand this and take appropriate action.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not prepared to accept this. before i begin, i would like to express on behalf of the committee on budgets - and please do not count on speaking time - our discomfort that the scheduled time has been pushed back very far. this has meant that mr lamassoure can no longer be present for the reasons i have mentioned. i ask for your understanding because i have just been informed that i must deliver his speech in the original version, in french. the cabins have a copy. that's why the five minutes are a little short, because unfortunately french is only my third foreign language. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the future of the community's own resources is very important. your committee on budgets has adopted an original political approach. the report submitted to parliament is a first stage report. firstly, the subject is major: behind the political crisis, the union is experiencing an equally serious budgetary crisis. the agreement on the financial perspectives was achieved only at the cost of stagnation in the community budget, which guarantees the financing of the cap and aid to the new member states, but does not allow, for example, the financing of the transport network or that of galileo and allows almost nothing for the common foreign and security policy. we come to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome. we are delighted with the success of the union, a union ever closer launched by the treaty. we have the courage to recognize that in budgetary matters, for fifty years, the union has been less and less 'narrow': budgetary solidarity has not increased, it has even globally diminished. ten years ago, the european budget represented 1.17% of gdp, whereas today, it reaches barely 0.99% with the 2007 budget. the first treaties laid down the principle of financing community expenditure from community resources, that is to say from fiscal resources directly allocated to the union: either from national resources, as in the case of customs duties, or even from a genuine european tax, as in the case of the tax on the turnover of steel and coal-mining enterprises under the ecsc. some colleagues who are very concerned about national sovereignty seem to have completely forgotten that the treaties to which they have acceded, sometimes after a referendum, contained a european tax. but this tax no longer exists, it has not been renewed, and customs duties account for more than 10% of the union's resources. the main source of these resources is now the contributions from the national budgets, and this is the reason for the crisis in community finances. the only way to remedy this is to return to the letter and spirit of the treaty of rome, by supporting national budgets and financing community expenditure with new fiscal resources directly allocated to the coverage of this expenditure. conscious of the problem, the european leaders met in 2008-2009 to open up the whole dossier of the european budget, both in terms of resources and expenditure. this commitment is expressly set out in the agreement on the financial perspectives. the second is the original political approach. in view of the sensitive nature of the subject, the budget committee proposed to associate the finance committees of the national parliament, and this was the case from the very beginning of our work. in two years we have had four joint meetings and the rapporteur has visited the national capitals of half the member states. the objective is not to reach an agreement between all the parliaments. it would not be possible either legally or politically. there is no procedure for national parliaments to decide, but we can prepare the ground for the commission and the council, dispel misunderstandings, act as a point of convergence of views and common political orientations, and agree on the paths to be excluded and those to be studied. the report today is therefore a progress report, which aims to make the point of the subjects on which there is a fairly broad consensus with the interlocutors whom the national parliaments have delegated to us. this consensus is threefold: consensus on the diagnosis of the weaknesses of the present system, consensus on the political orientations of a reform, consensus on the content of a first phase which could begin fairly quickly and which would consist, first of all, in simplifying the present system. thus, instead of obeying rules which had become infinitely complex over the years, the contributions of the national budget were simply calculated on the basis of gdp. however, there is no consensus at present on the urgency or content of a second phase. or, for us, she is essential. it consists in choosing, among the existing fiscal resources, those which could progressively replace national contributions without aggravating the total burden on the taxpayer. at this stage, the progress report merely draws up a list of taxes which could be eligible for this allocation, without any recommendation being made. this will be the subject of a second report which i shall present at the end of the year, after a final interparliamentary conference on the subject has been announced by the portuguese presidency for 4 and 5 november next. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing the future of own resources again today. we're just doing this for the record at the moment. the commissioner responsible is not here, the council benches are completely empty and all i see here are the colleagues who have been discussing with me for many hours in the committee on budgets when we discussed the interim report by alain lamassoure. we have exchanged all the arguments we have already made in 1990, 1994, 2001 and 2005 as the main points for a reform of own resources. we want a simpler system than what we have at present. we want more justice, more equality between member states, also on the revenue side - away with all exceptions - and we want greater transparency on the revenue side of the budget. transparency for all members of parliament, for the members of the council and above all for all citizens. it is not difficult for the council to accept these demands. we cannot continue to make the infamous sunday speeches of last sunday without taking action on behalf of the citizens. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. it is also about more democracy. the european parliament, as the representative of the peoples of europe, can only co-decide on the european union's expenditure, but not on its revenue. this leads to the rather abstruse situation that the council denies us our share of responsibility, but at the same time defames parliament as a spending parliament which can only be responsible for increasing expenditure because it is not responsible for the revenue, and therefore does not have to justify it. there is no such thing, some of you will say. yes, there was! i've seen it myself. within half an hour, both statements came from the same mouth and from the same finance minister. parliament is always ready to negotiate. we never wanted to go through the wall. this is what alain lamassoure has once again demonstrated in his charming way with his very moderate proposal for a two-stage reform of own resources. we support him almost without exception, also in that he does not want to challenge national taxation authorities with the demand for a european tax. i'm happy to give him that support. i have repeatedly called for this since i have been in parliament: no representation without taxation. you see, the european parliament has already moved without the negotiations with the council having started. we now expect the council to take action in preparation for the jointly agreed revision. he should be cooperative for once.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not my colleague ivo belet, the epp-ed, has done an excellent job. his report attempts to strike a balance between the social and economic dimensions of football. i have spoken to club managers, players and fans and have tabled amendments in the employment committee which have found broad support. young players must be encouraged from an early age through performance centres and a lot of practice. i therefore support uefa's proposal to always have a minimum number of players from its own youth teams. it would be possible, mr figel, to secure this principle by legal means. i am in favour of professional clubs signing their players for the national teams and being compensated financially if they are injured or out for weeks. it is time for a new, joint insurance system at uefa and fifa. nominations for their own country are highly stimulating for the players and good for the clubs. karlheinz rumenigge was here in the european parliament a moment ago. i am a member of a german club in the bundesliga and also of the friends of football group here in the european parliament. it's about fair play in the competition between the teams. at present, some clubs are heavily indebted and still obtain the licence. other clubs are serious about their business, but cannot optimally strengthen themselves with limited finances. something's got to be moving. let us continue to fight racism together. last year our resolution received the most signatures in the history of the european parliament. we must respond to attacks with consistency, with games in front of empty stands, with points deducted, with the ostracism of clubs that are not ready to act. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we do not need a european supervisory body to monitor the activities of sovereign football clubs. what lasts is cooperation. we must therefore protect the autonomy of our bodies and the principle of subsidiarity. i am counting on the legality of the decisions of the sporting courts and on the strength of self-regulation at uefa, fifa and our national associations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the epp-ed group essentially supports the excellent reports by mrs vincenzi and mr savary on flag state obligations on the one hand and on the liability of ship owners on the other. we also thank the rapporteurs for the competent preparation of these reports. contrary to the fears of some shipping circles, the two directives do not in essence introduce any new obligations for shipping and the member states, and do not therefore affect the competitiveness of the european fleet vis-à-vis competitors from third countries. the proposals are really only intended to make long-standing international conventions on the law of the sea binding on all member states. as we look at the individual flag state proposals, it is high time that all 27 member states of the european union fulfil their obligations under the international convention on the control of their own vessels. it is not enough to sign and ratify conventions. it is also important that member states finally provide the necessary material and human resources to carry out effective controls on their own vessels. as regards liability for shipping accidents, the only thing that is actually true is that all member states are obliged by community law to finally apply the 1996 llmc convention. our demand that the 1996 hns convention and the 2001 bunker oil convention finally be applied cannot be a mere pretext for shipping and for the member states. we can therefore defend our position. we are asking for something which is quite natural in the interests of the environment and the citizens, and i hope that the council will finally understand this and be prepared to deal with these two dossiers as well.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not if i tell my mother that we're going to discuss maritime security after football at 11 p.m., she'll probably say, "you're having a little fun in brussels". i don't want to contradict my mother on this point. it is good that the commission has put forward this proposal, however, because it is necessary. we have called in the committee on the enhancement of safety at sea (mare) for action by the european union in the area of flag state obligations, liability and compensation. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, my colleagues marta vincenzi and gilles savary, because both reports are difficult and politically very controversial. we have not heard any cheers, euphoria or applause from the council. i would therefore like to say to the council once again - because there have obviously been misunderstandings - that the fact that we are discussing these two reports today does not mean that we are abandoning the erika 3 package with its seven dossiers, but rather that we are underlining the special political importance of these two reports. the council, therefore, would be grossly negligent, as gilles savary would have been, if it had this false perception. i agree with mr jarzembowski: the council's position on the vincenzi report is very difficult to convey. what is the problem with incorporating the current imo rules into european law? and what is the problem with the savary report, which, in addition to oil pollution, also includes chemical pollution in its civil liability? that can't be the problem. in any case, common sense would say so. the message of these two reports is: more responsibility for ships flying their flag by the member states and more responsibility for shipowners and member states when something happens. these things are overdue, think of erika and prestige. i thank the commission for its proposal. thank you to the reporters. the council is now called upon to behave properly and not to be grossly negligent.
member of the commission. mr president, before going into the details of the report, i would like to thank mr tabajdi and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for this report. it is a good moment to take stock of the situation. you could say that it is a good warming-up for our discussion on the health check of the common agricultural policy. i fully agree with the author of this report that the integration of the ten new member states has been a win-win situation. i would like to point out three different issues. firstly, the positive development of the income of the agricultural sector in the new member states. i think this has been of major importance because a good income provides not only for a decent life, but also for the long-term survival of the agricultural sector. if we look at the figures for the income in the ten new member states it has actually increased 60% over the period from 2004 to 2006 compared to the 2003 figures. if you look at the same period for the figures in the old member states, the eu-15, it has decreased by 2%. i think that this shows clearly how the new member states have been benefiting from their membership of the common agricultural policy. the distribution of the money hopefully meant that understanding in the rural areas of the importance of membership has become very clear. as regards trade, an issue which was also raised by the rapporteur, it is clear that everybody has benefited from the increased internal market. again it is a win-win situation and i hope that the trends that we have seen will also continue in the years to come. on rural development, which is a very important issue not only in the new member states but in the european union as a whole, i think that the difficulties that you have mentioned in your report are related to initial teething problems. the recent figures illustrate it. all rural development payments in 2006 to the new member states came to just over eur 2.7 billion, an increase of 21% compared to the 2005 figures. i hope that these monies will be spent in a constructive way in the new member states and i am optimistic about the new member states’ ability to fully implement the programme for a new financial period from 2007 to 2013. this brings me to the health check. formally speaking, the implementation of the cap reform by the new member states is not subject to the revision clause. however, i think that we should take the opportunity in this health check to try to solve as many as possible of the common problems encountered by all 27 member states in our discussions in 2008. i am looking forward to very constructive cooperation with the agriculture committee on all these issues. it is of great mutual interest to all of us to have a very strong agricultural sector within the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr tabajdi, very warmly for the compromise reached on the report. when i was visiting bavaria and germany as an agricultural politician before the accession of the ten new member states, many farmers in germany feared that enlargement would have a negative impact on agriculture in the old eu member states. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. when i was in the candidate countries, farmers here also had great reservations and fears about joining the european union. today it can be said: the fears in the east and the west were largely unfounded. the way in which the new member states have integrated themselves into the common agricultural policy is generally positive. the parties involved - this has been mentioned - in the new member states have mainly benefited from the stabilisation of markets and prices and from the improved trading opportunities. the food processing and food trade sectors in the eu-15 have benefited from increased exports and the large investment opportunities in the new member states. the report notes that the integration of the new member states has been largely successful so far. there were major difficulties on the fruit and vegetable market and with the unjustified import ban on polish products imposed by russia and ukraine. the commission and the council are called upon to respond more rapidly to the specific problems of the new member states. the report notes that the production of biomass and bioenergy will play an important role in the future of the eu agricultural sector. the epp-ed group agrees with the compromise reached, although it has some reservations about some of the financial demands.
the next item is the statement by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy on the prospects for the common foreign policy for the european union in 2007, including the proposed establishment of a missile defence system by the united states of america in europe.
high representative. mr president, it is a pleasure to meet you. this is the first time i have spoken under your presidency. let me congratulate you once again and wish you the greatest success in your presidency, as well as the institutional relationship that we will undoubtedly have between you and the parliament you preside over. i refer to the evidence: in the short time that the honourable member has been president of parliament we have had several meetings, all of them productive, and i hope that this will be the normal pattern through which we will continue to work. i would also like to congratulate the chairman of the ppe group, whom i have already had the opportunity to see on one occasion, and also the new chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, whom i also had the opportunity to greet in my office a short time ago. congratulations, good spirits and all the best for a fruitful cooperation. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just arrived from riyadh, where a very important summit of the arab league has taken place and where, i believe, the european union has also played a role of some importance. the meeting is not yet over and i hope that during the session i shall have occasion, perhaps, to give you the latest information on the progress of the meeting. in this first appearance i want to say that i am very pleased to be able to be with you and to be able to discuss the foreign policy issues which i know are fundamental issues for the european parliament, which interest you, which are involved in them and on which i would like to work in the same way as we have done before, with the utmost dedication. this morning, in the time we have, which is plenty, i want to discuss with you some of the most pressing, most important issues of world foreign policy which affect us europeans as such. i think this is a good time to do it, mr. president. a few days ago in berlin we adopted a declaration on the 50th anniversary of the european union. it was a magnificent event in which chancellor merkel, who was here yesterday, presented us with a declaration which i believe is important and which can open up a gap in the future for further developments in the european union in all fields. i have no doubt, mr president, that a common foreign policy is one of the great challenges facing the european union. and there are many reasons for this, two of which will suffice: the first is that in the rest of the world, when you travel around the world, you find a great desire for the european union to play an increasingly clearer role in foreign policy. you are exceptional witnesses, you have also travelled the world and are aware of this. we are being called upon to be present in the most diverse places and in the most disparate conflicts. they are calling for a european way of doing things, with a foreign policy that works, and they are calling for something that is what we all want. in the end i think we should all acknowledge that it's a success that it happens that way. but we are also being asked to do so by our own citizens. the systematic monitoring of the eurobarometer certainly shows that european citizens also have a special desire that the european union's foreign policy should be as much their own as possible, as much as possible common, as much as possible coordinated, as much as possible visible. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak about these things, while acknowledging that i think it is a success that the european union is moving in this direction and that it should be recognised as such. to give you an idea, right now we have ten missions deployed around the world: from kinshasa to bosnia or from gaza to iraq. we are about to prepare a mission for afghanistan and two missions in kosovo, which will undoubtedly be the most difficult, both because of their size and because of the importance that kosovo will have in the future of the stabilization of the balkans. i'm sure there will be other missions afterwards. there will be demand for other missions later on, both from the civilian point of view and from the military point of view or from a mixed point of view. we must therefore live up to what is expected of us, what is expected of the european union. this, ladies and gentlemen, also requires adequate means, and we shall have some responsibility in our debates, because parliament will undoubtedly have to play an important role in this matter. this morning i would like to discuss the most pressing issues - if i may use this expression - of international life, such as the middle east, with all its manifestations. i would like to say a few words about iran and the latest events. we will certainly have to talk about the balkans; and i would also like to speak to you about africa and, briefly, some of the eastern european issues that are currently being discussed among us. i'll start with the middle east. as i have just said, it seems to me that the arab league summit which began yesterday and which has not yet ended, at which i had the honour of representing the european union, may be one of the most important summits the arab league has held in its 60 years of history. the european union is a great example of the kind of history we have seen in the past few days, 60 years of history celebrated on 3 march, 50 years of history of our own union celebrated last week. in that period of time we have certainly had over thirty years of close cooperation with the arab league. i think it is important to stress this and i think it is also important to stress to honourable members that this cooperation between the european union and the arab league is going to become increasingly important. yesterday's meeting had some significant elements which i would like to discuss with the honourable members. perhaps the most outstanding, in my opinion, having participated in many arab league meetings, was the clear leadership at all times his majesty the king of saudi arabia has had. as you know, saudi arabia has been an important country in the region, but not one of the most active countries from a political point of view; it has been more so from an economic point of view. we are faced today with a king, abdullah, who is in his position as king, who for a long time was, let us say, crowned king - because of the illness of his predecessor - and who has initiated within the arab league a certain action of some importance to solve the problems of the arab world, its people and the whole. the revitalization of the arab league, which we believe is important, is therefore a very important issue. i would like to specify three of them, essentially, and i will refer to them during my speech. the most important, from the point of view of the peace process, is undoubtedly the revival of the arab league initiative. you will recall that after the beirut summit in 2002, there was an arab initiative which offered mutual recognition between the arab countries and israel if the 1967 borders were to be completely withdrawn. this initiative, which has been discussed in various forums for several years, has not just been accepted completely by israel and is again on the table today, put there by the arab countries with greater energy and determination. as you know, we europeans were able to introduce the arab initiative into the famous road map, and therefore this initiative forms part, as a fundamental pillar, of the possible final settlement on the middle east issue and above all of the comprehensive part of the peace process, not only the peace process along the palestinian-israeli route, but also in the matters that have to do with libya, with lebanon or with syria. this is the first issue that is being discussed this morning in riyadh, and i believe that giving a new impetus to this initiative can be of fundamental importance in giving a new impetus to the peace process. the issues concerning lebanon were also discussed; it is interesting to note that a new debate has also been launched in the arab league on issues that are, so to speak, straddling the arab league and the african union: issues that have an african component and an arab component, such as sudan or somalia. i shall devote a few minutes to both of these subjects later. let me say, first of all, with regard to the middle east, that the european union is convinced that the arab-israeli conflict is at the heart of the region's problems; europe has been fully convinced of this for a long time, i have discovered nothing new. we have today supported the mecca agreement, also managed by the king of saudi arabia; we believe that the mecca agreement is a contribution to ending the intra-palestinian strife and to the solution of the conflict which, as you know and as we have repeated many times, involves the end of the occupation which began in 1967, the creation of two states and a comprehensive and comprehensive settlement for the region. we support without any doubt the tireless efforts of president abbas, with whom i had the opportunity to spend a long hour yesterday morning, to achieve the objectives of the palestinian people in accordance with the principles which he himself has repeatedly and tirelessly, in particular at two key moments: the last united nations general assembly and, more recently, on the occasion of the inauguration of the new palestinian government on 17 may. as you know, these principles, which the president himself has mentioned, are three: the first is respect for the previous agreements reached by the plo and the palestinian national authority; the second is mutual recognition; and the third is the renunciation of violence and commitment to the path of negotiation. the european union, as you know, has not abandoned and will never abandon the palestinian people. it is an attitude that we have maintained for a long time, and we will continue to do so. i sincerely believe that we are facing a new opportunity to give a boost to the resolution of the conflict. trying to get out of what we might call a crisis management phase and into a new phase of conflict resolution. i believe that there are objective conditions for entering that phase and trying, with the help of the members of the quartet, to move that process forward. ladies and gentlemen, with the launch of the new palestinian unity government, we are going to have to deal with a number of problems which we will have to discuss and which we will have to solve. we will face new problems about how to deal with that government, how to finance that government. i would like to say very briefly what my position would be, a position which i am prepared to defend at the weekend when the foreign ministers meet in chemnitz, convened by the german presidency. in the new government, ladies and gentlemen, there are people whom we have known and known well for a long time. there are other people we don't know because they belong to hamas and, because hamas is on the list of terrorist organizations, we don't deal with them and we don't know them. but there are many people in that government that we know, and as i say, we have known well for a long time; i know them and many of you know them. to say that the new minister of finance is a person unknown to us would be to say something that is contrary to the truth: we have dealt with him for a long time, we have worked with him in a very effective way and it would be really absurd if we now said that he is as if he were an unknown person. the foreign minister himself is a person from gaza, i have dealt with him for many years: he is a person who does not belong to any political group, he is an intellectual man, a man who even has a passport from another country - not the country from which the palestinians normally have their passport - who has for a long time organized numerous meetings between many of his honourable members and members of the palestinian authority; therefore, i think it would be a mistake to completely cut off all contact with the people who, as part of the new government, have been our close collaborators for a long time. if i were also asked what we would do or how we would use the means of financing, i think we should not change overnight the position we have taken on financing, but i do think that, in any case, listening to the new minister for finance, our old friend, an honest person, a person whose political career we have known, should be one of our objectives. i would like to know what he thinks, how financial aid can be made most effective so that it not only contributes to the better well-being of the palestinians, but also helps to move the peace process forward. i think our position should be as we have said in the quartet, the most important thing today are not words, but deeds. to observe how the palestinian government is behaving at the moment and to act and adapt our action to the way it behaves, not just to the words it says. i would also like to say that we are determined to make a leap towards conflict resolution and out of the crisis management zone. the quartet, as you know, has had a greater vitality in this time period, since the year began. we have already met on several occasions and had some very important meetings, both with abbas and with olmert, and i would like to tell you that in the coming weeks we will have a meeting in the area with the countries closest to us, with the countries with which we have a closer relationship to solve the problem, such as egypt, saudi arabia, the emirates or amman. i think they are the countries that have been most involved with us and we want to meet with them. it would be our hope that in the not too distant future, that is to say before the summer comes, that the quartet, plus the four countries i have mentioned, could also have a meeting with the parties: that is to say, a meeting with the palestinians and a meeting with israel. it would be the first time israel has met with the quartet. to this day israel has never met the quartet. the palestinians have, but israel has not yet. this is the programme of work we have for these months, very important months in which i know that the president of parliament is also going to travel to the region; coordinating the efforts we are going to make seems to me therefore absolutely essential. as during the question and answer part there will certainly be many in relation to the middle east, i would like to stop here in the peace process and say a few words about iran. i also had the opportunity to meet the iranian foreign minister, mr motaki, yesterday morning in riyadh. i made it clear and emphatically clear to him that the european union cannot accept the detention of the 15 british seamen by the iranian authorities. there is no reason for this, there is no illegality in this case, and the european union must stand in solidarity with the friends of the united kingdom for the release of these seamen. a few words on the nuclear programme: as you know, on the evening of saturday 24 march, while we were in berlin, the united nations security council unanimously adopted resolution 1747. resolution 1747 is the third resolution adopted unanimously by the security council on the subject of iran, in order to comply with its obligations, which are obligations arising from the vienna opinions or reports, which dr el baradei, as director of the international energy agency, has put to the vote of the governing council. i would like to say that it is very important that the vote at this last session was unanimously taken by the entire international community represented in the security council. the constitution of the security council today, here and now, is a constitution which, in principle, could have been more complex than the previous one in the context of understanding the iranian question. the united nations security council is currently made up of countries such as qatar, indonesia, a major islamic country, and south africa, which symbolically represents the non-aligned countries, as well as many other countries, five european countries in this case. i think we have an obligation to explain our position very clearly, so that there is no divergence between our understanding of the difficulty that the problem of non-proliferation presents to the world - not just to one type of country, but to the world in general - so that they understand it well and we can have a good debate with them, with the non-aligned countries or with countries like the ones i have just mentioned. it was a success that in such a short period of time this resolution could be adopted by consensus. it is a clear message, an obvious message to the iranian authorities that the nuclear programme they are pursuing must be a programme compatible with the resolutions of the security council. at the same time as the resolution was being published, a statement was made from berlin, which i made on behalf of the european members and also the permanent members of the security council, in which it was stated that we still believed that the best way to solve this problem with iran was through a political solution, and that we were prepared to start or continue negotiations; and that there was no other solution than a political solution. and so, 48 hours later, i had the opportunity to speak with dr. larajani, the interlocutor of the iranian side, not to solve the problem, not to start a negotiation or a pre-negotiation, but yes, at least, to convey that clear message from us, a message that was welcomed by dr. larajani. we hope that in the coming weeks we will have the opportunity to see how the iranian leadership has the wisdom not only to solve the problem they have with the united kingdom today but also to resume negotiations which can lead us to a final solution of this problem. there is no other way, ladies and gentlemen, than negotiation, and we must resume it as soon as possible. i think that the commission should be able to take a decision on this matter. as i have said, the issue of non-proliferation is beginning to be an issue that can divide the international community. nothing could be more serious than that there is a difference of opinion, a different conception depending on whether we are countries of the north or countries of the south, more developed or less developed countries, on an issue as vital as non-proliferation. therefore, we should make every effort to explain this well and to share our concerns with them. nonproliferation is not something that affects one or the other, it affects the world as a whole. it seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the fundamental obligations we have as europeans is to introduce the debate on non-proliferation in three different ways: firstly, non-proliferation itself. secondly, the disarmament issue: i think we have abandoned the disarmament issue for too long, putting the emphasis mainly on the issue of non-proliferation, without also putting it on what the non-proliferation treaty tells us; it also says that the powers which have nuclear capabilities must start thinking about how to disarm, so that nuclear weapons begin to disappear from our planet. we must therefore insist - and i think this is a fundamental value which europeans must understand very clearly - that the issue of disarmament is fundamental. thirdly, we must also bring the issue of technology transfer into this debate, which is what makes some countries feel that there is a double standard in the use of nuclear energy. i believe that making a package on these three issues, starting a serious negotiation with other countries beyond the borders of the european union, led by the european union, can be a great contribution of the european union to the construction of a world in peace and a world in which weapons begin not to be the way to solve problems and where the means for solving problems are the word, dialogue and the normal language, which is the language that the european union defends. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to give you a brief account of the latest developments in the balkans, particularly in relation to kosovo and serbia. as you know, martti ahtisaari, former president of finland, a great man known to all of us, a great president of finland at the time, was commissioned by the un secretary-general to try to solve the problems of the final status of kosovo. it has been working for a long time with the parties, both serbia and kosovo, to see if a negotiated solution was possible. i would remind the honourable members that there was even an extension of the deadline until 21 february to start the last phase of negotiations, in order to take account of the elections which were to take place in serbia at that time. the final position of president ahtisaari, which is already part of a formal document submitted to the un secretary-general, tells us something like that it seems very difficult, if not impossible, at least for him, that there is a negotiated solution acceptable to both sides. the international community will therefore probably be obliged to find a formula for imposing the solution. the imposition of the solution, as you know, corresponds to a resolution of the united nations security council, chapter 7. this requires the commitment of all the members of the security council and, as you know, difficulties have already begun to arise with certain member countries of the security council. in particular, mainly with russia and, very likely, also with china. the process therefore enters a new phase, once the phase led by mr ahtisaari is over, to enter a phase of debate in the un security council. the european union has been in constant contact, as you know, with mr ahtisaari; we have worked with him on some matters, although it was his responsibility, and it is now up to us to establish our position in some way. our position has been to support president ahtisaari and his process, and now we have to decide whether we will support the final position he has adopted. we must now wait and see how events develop in the un security council. i do want to say that the european union will have a huge responsibility when it comes to the position defining the final status of kosovo. kosovo is on our continent. it has a european perspective; therefore, whatever final resolution the security council adopts, we will have fundamental obligations: in the field of the international community representation office, the responsibility of the international community in kosovo; and we will also have a mission, apart from the economic aspects which you are well aware of, a mission of common foreign and security policy, of police, of the judiciary, of everything that has to do with the laws and the application of the law in kosovo. it will be, without doubt, the most important mission of the european union in our foreign and security policy history. we will most likely have more than 1 500 people deployed, in all these different dimensions to which i have just referred. parliament, ladies and gentlemen, will have a great responsibility to see how we are able to find the resources. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail. if the european union fails to stabilise the balkans, if we fail to stabilise kosovo and serbia, it would be a major failure that would severely limit the other opportunities for action that the european union has in the rest of the world. if we are not able to solve well, effectively, quickly, the problems we have in our neighbourhood, it will be much more difficult to do so beyond our borders. a word about serbia. ladies and gentlemen, serbia is a great balkan country, a great country to which we must also give our full support. serbia will certainly have a difficult time: the referendum in montenegro, the final solution to the kosovo problem. i think we have an obligation to help serbia in the most effective way possible. in serbia we still have to continue negotiating the association and stabilisation agreement, but i would like, ladies and gentlemen, to see us make the most generous effort possible to help that country. serbia, which is, as i said, a great country, has a vocation and a will to be part of the family of european countries. if you have seen the last election campaign, the position of president tadic today, a person whom we respect, with whom we have very close relations, was a totally pro-european position. i believe that after what is going to happen in this period of time we should be able to help in the best possible way that the government, which has not yet been formed after the elections, remains a pro-european government, a government that defends our values, a government that leads serbia towards the destiny that belongs to it, which is, in its day, to have a european perspective. president tadic and i see each other very often; he was here recently, he was also in berlin for the 50th anniversary of the treaties of rome. he is a great friend of europe and, as i said, i see him relatively often. we discuss all these issues with the utmost candor and detail. i also have the opportunity to see mr kostunica, who is still prime minister of a government in office today, but is prime minister of the government, with whom president tadic will undoubtedly have to find an accommodation sooner or later so that there is a coalition which can govern the country in the best possible way, in the most stable way possible, together with the g17 group, which was already the old coalition which governed serbia before. the commitment in mr tadic's election campaign has also been to full and effective cooperation with the international criminal court, because it is essential that the people who have been so clearly charged with the crimes - some of them have been tried by the international criminal court in the hague not many days ago - are found and brought to justice. ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly have to continue to speak about kosovo every week: from now until the summer, practically every week, some important decision will have to be taken on serbia and kosovo. i want to tell you that the european presence operation in kosovo is ready and once the security council resolution is adopted, we will be ready to launch it. we are therefore not concerned about this issue, but we are concerned about its duration and whether there will be sufficient resources to carry it out fully and in time. but i want to assure you that the work is done and ready, and the moment the security council passes the resolution we will be in a position to deploy the function. a few words on some important issues in eastern europe. in the last few days, in the last few weeks, i have had the opportunity to meet the president and the prime minister of ukraine. i would like to share with you my concern about the development of ukraine. as you know, ukraine, after the elections, took a long time to build a government. an unexpected coalition was achieved, but it has finally settled. the coalition is starting to work, but the issue of reforms and the issue of constitutional stability are still problems that we should be concerned about. ukraine is a very important country for us, a great country from the physical point of view, a great country with potential from the economic point of view, but a great country also from the strategic point of view. we must therefore attach the greatest importance to ukraine. we must devote some of our energies to it. i try to devote as much time to it as i do to resolving some of the conflicts that are frozen in the area. the one we are paying more attention to is the transdniestrian problem. at the last summit we reached an agreement with president putin; i hope that this agreement will be reinvigorated at the next summit, also in cooperation with the russian federation, which will take place in may, to see if in a relatively short time we can give a boost to the solution of the transdniestrian problem. there is a new scheme for doing this, there is a greater involvement of both sides, there is a greater involvement of the ukrainian government as well and i hope that we can have some success in resolving these conflicts that are frozen in the eastern part of europe. the same can be said of belarus. chancellor merkel spoke yesterday with great capacity, great warmth about belarus, she did so also on the 50th anniversary. i agree with you completely. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that nowadays an exchange of views on foreign policy cannot be carried out without mentioning africa, two major problems with potentially major humanitarian consequences. the first is the old, almost old, problem of darfur, to which we devoted a good deal of our time yesterday in riyadh, because it is a problem which has an african component, as i said earlier, but also a component of the arab league. the involvement of these two great unions, the african union and the arab league, together with the international community, is essential. we europeans can feel, i would not say pride, because no one can feel proud of what is happening there, but at least a certain satisfaction in the fact that from the beginning we have been committed to a solution to the darfur problem. we have worked hard for the abuja accords, we have funded the african union force deployed on the ground as generously as possible, but as you know, the situation is still extremely worrying. yesterday, we spoke again with president al-bashir, the president of sudan, to examine the possibility of the united nations taking over the african union security force in darfur. we have not reached a full agreement, but i am hopeful, since the un secretary-general, mr ban ki-moon, was also present in riyadh yesterday, that the decisions taken yesterday will be decisions which will move in the right direction. in any case, for us europeans, the issue of darfur must be a matter of the greatest concern from a humanitarian point of view, and not only from a humanitarian point of view, but also from the point of view of finding a formula that will stabilize the country. this is a problem that is facing, say, east-west brought to darfur, but also a fundamental problem that will be on the table again: the north-south problem. as far as the north-south problem is concerned, an agreement was reached, as you know, but a referendum is still pending, which may allow the country to be divided into two parts. if that were the final solution, we would be in a breaking solution of a country as big, as important as sudan, with such fundamental energy reserves, and it would be a great catastrophe for all of us. the relationship with china in this area is as fundamental as the relationship with india. these are two countries which receive from sudan the major part, or a very important part, of their energy supply of oil. the contribution of both countries to the stabilization of sudan is absolutely fundamental and in this sense our foreign policy with china and india must also incorporate this issue in all our negotiations, an important issue for human rights and for the stability of an important region of africa. ladies and gentlemen, i do not know how much time i have, but i would like to touch briefly on two subjects: firstly, the structure we are setting up for crisis management, where one of the most modern structural operations for crisis management is being launched in the council. we have already tested it in a certain way in the case of kinshasa, with the generosity of our german friends in leading the operation, but we are trying to set up a structure which has in it, from the outset, all the elements of a possible crisis management, both civil and military, from the outset. we must therefore create an operational planning unit which contains, as i say, all the components, so that we do not find ourselves in situations which we have historically encountered elsewhere, situations of temporary lags from the civil or military side, from the economic side or the social construction side. everything has to be well conceived from the beginning. it would be very interesting to have a more detailed explanation of something that i think is at the forefront of the thinking that the european union is carrying out and that goes beyond what some of the member states of the european union, or third countries outside the european union, are trying to do in this area, in a special session, if you will, or in the committee on foreign affairs. ladies and gentlemen, according to the title of the hearing, you wanted me to give you my impression or my reflection on the subject of the missile defence system. i shall be glad to give you a brief reflection on my thoughts on the matter. there is no decision yet from the european union. it is very likely that there will be discussions on this subject in future councils, but i could sum up my thoughts in three points which i think are very clear. the first is that the european union is not a defence alliance - we know that very well - but it does have a foreign and security policy, and it must and can debate this issue within it. i would therefore be in favour of this subject being discussed within the european union. i think it should be debated. the second is that the european union, as i said before, is not a defence alliance and it is certainly not the place to take a decision on that matter, since it is a matter strictly of a defence alliance, but i think it would be a mistake if we did not confront and discuss these issues among ourselves in the clearest and most open way possible. thirdly, the whole system can affect our relations with an external country, a third country, such as russia. fortunately, yesterday there was a good gesture, a good move, between russia and the united states. for the first time, president bush and president putin have had a contact on this matter. the last thing i had to say was that security issues remain, under the treaties we have in force, a matter of national sovereignty, but in any case it seems to me essential to make this right of sovereignty of countries compatible with the general interest of the european union in security matters. i would therefore recommend and support that we discuss the issue of the missile defence system not only here but also, if necessary, in the atlantic alliance. i think that is what most of the political leaders in the european union want, and i think that is what we should do. ladies and gentlemen, i'm finished here. the foreign and security policy programme for the year that is now here, 2007, is going to be extraordinarily dense. the months ahead of us between now and the summer are going to be enormously important, just with the four or five issues i have already mentioned to you: enormously important. i believe that if, with the will of the presidency and the chancellor, we are able to give a boost to institutional matters, we must also make another important effort which will have the greatest possible impact on foreign and security policy. i would like to conclude by saying that we will do everything possible to ensure that all these important matters, which are undoubtedly of increasing concern to us, are dealt with in good cooperation with the european parliament. the european union was born as a peace project 50 years ago and must remain a peace project. it was born as a project of peace between us and from now on it must be a project of peace not only between us, but in the world. we have values, we have means, we have capabilities, we have wealth levels high enough that we cannot close our eyes to what is happening in the world. it is therefore our fundamental obligation to be increasingly active, increasingly cohesive, increasingly visible actors in the international community, in this globalised world in which we live. if we are not able to do that, it would be a great failure, in my view, for the european union, something that none of us wants; we all want it to succeed. (applause) i would like to thank
the commissioner, my dear javier solana, is here. your extensive report has made clear the enormous task you have to undertake. our best wishes are with you on this journey. you've reached out to the fifteen british sailors. i would like to appeal on behalf of the european parliament to the iranian president and the iranian leadership to release the 15 british sailors. do not further undermine confidence in the iranian leadership. we in the european parliament stand in solidarity with the 15 sailors and with the united kingdom.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not first, a very brief comment on the address of mr daul. we also want croatia to be able to participate in the european elections in 2009, but the basic condition for this is - and i think we are in agreement on this this morning, or at least yesterday afternoon - that there can be no further accessions without the necessary reforms of the eu. in other words, if you want croatia to join in 2009 and to take part in the european elections, you must tell mr kaczyński and mr klaus that they must move during the constitutional debate or else it will not happen. i hope that's still the case this morning. (applause from the centre) the european union is a great example of this. thank you for your comprehensive presentation of the role of the european union in international politics. i would like to make two points on behalf of our group, in which we wish to assure you of our full solidarity and support. first, your remarks about the british soldiers being held captive in iran. i thank you for your clear words of solidarity. i would like to say, on behalf of my group, to the iranian people: any verbal in any form pledge of any kind of peacefulness can be measured well by whether these soldiers are released. it is very easy to demonstrate that you are ready for a constructive dialogue on international politics. a second point you made is that the eu is not a defence alliance but an alliance which seeks to resolve international conflicts first and foremost through dialogue. the identity-building foreign policy we can develop for ourselves is precisely the one that describes the priority for civil and diplomatic solutions as the 'european model' as opposed to military solutions. the fact that you have made this clear shows that you really deserve the support of my group for this line. but it also means that if dialogue is to be conducted and if there is primacy for dialogue, then it must be conducted with everyone. that is why i really welcomed the fact that you said here that we cannot refuse to engage in dialogue with the new palestinian unity government. you've called the treasury secretary and the foreign secretary. they've been talking to us for years. how can we say that we are not talking to them just because they are members of a government in which hamas is also represented? we are very grateful to you for having said something clear about this. our group will send a delegation to palestine to talk to these negotiators as well. you've listed a whole series of points. you reported riad reported, they have spoken about the kosovo problem, the situation in the balkans, iran, ukraine and the darfur crisis. they have presented a wealth of worrying developments in which we as the european union are involved. i have listened to you attentively, mr solana, and i have asked myself: which of these problems is actually solved by a missile defence system in poland and the czech republic? not one! (applause from the centre) but a lot of the causes of the problems have to do with the fact that we allow ourselves, globally -- and when i say we, i mean the western world -- to spend billions on everything, but not on eliminating the causes of these conflicts that still go on: poverty, hunger, disease, disease, underdevelopment. we have money for everything! and now, when the american president offers the russian president a dialogue, as i read this morning, i think that is wonderful. that's in our spirit. but then they should be talking about not deploying these systems in the first place, instead of talking about how to deploy them together. the european union must not be allowed to be the arbiter of the world's problems. mr high representative, you have given us an impressive account of your work, but one thing is clear to us: any missile defence system, no matter how it is deployed - bilaterally, under the umbrella of nato, under the umbrella of the european union, or however - is nothing but a new spiral of arms race that costs us the money we lack to resolve the conflicts you have described. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we talk a lot about common foreign and security policy, but in the end we are not able to reach a common position. i appreciate what you said about the middle east. if we are trying to negotiate with states like iran or the arab league, we should also try to negotiate with hamas, which has been elected. you speak of nuclear disarmament. this is a matter of great concern to the european parliament, but where is the common voice that criticises the uk for upgrading the trident project? two governments, the united states and great britain, which will be voted out of office in the foreseeable future, nevertheless want to burden the world with new steps towards armaments. you talk about kosovo and say you support ahtisaari. what kind of support is that? why does europe not dare to say what is to be done now? why is it staying in cover? we need a supervised independence. yet we shun that word like the devil avoids holy water. it is time for europe and the european parliament - and we are voting on this today - to say at last that there is no going back, no kosovo going back to serbia, that the status quo is no longer working and that we must take this difficult path instead of preparing police missions now and waiting for others to clarify positions. we need a new un security council resolution; the old, still valid, resolution 1244 must be withdrawn. we need the mandate for the esdp mission. it is not enough to wait for others to come forward with a clarification, and i welcome your speech in that respect, but please tell me whether you also support ahtisaari's letter to the un security council, in which he speaks of supervised independence, and ban ki moon's statement. what is the reason for europe's attempt to shirk its responsibilities here?
you should appreciate the european solidarity with the 15 sailors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the debate on the missile defence system always reminds me of a stakeout in the fog. when you're in a debate and you're stuck in the fog, it's always a very good occasion for controversy. first of all, we are not discussing one, but two missile defence systems. one is the missile defense system of the united states, a system for which 100 billion dollars have already been spent. the installations in poland and the czech republic, which are planned here, are part of this defence system. this year, 9 billion was spent on the defense system. we must ask ourselves what this means for the security of europe. we are elected and therefore responsible for the security of the european continent. the question i have to ask myself is whether this system can also protect european countries, and if so, all countries. the european union must not allow itself to be divided into two zones of differing security. we have to stop that. the second question is about the nato missile defence system. so far, there is only one feasibility study. what will nato, what will europe do in the light of this feasibility study? the responsibility is clearly nato, not the european union. but if we are to continue along this path, we must consider how the european countries will act within nato. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. in one case we will certainly not be partners with the united states, in the other case we will be partners with the united states. the european union is a partner of the united states, and it is a partner of the united states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr solana has wisely made clear where the crisis areas are and where europe's interests lie. let me give you just a few examples. the middle east, kosovo, iran, energy security, and many more. but we must take stock of how we are going to proceed. firstly, we will not be able to assert our soft power position in many of these areas unless we speak with a strong common foreign policy voice to influence our partners in the world, and particularly in the transatlantic relationship. secondly, we will not progress if we regard the european union as a zone of differing security. in terms of energy security, we have to make sure that every country is equally secure. but it is equally unacceptable that a missile shield should make a part of the european union less secure. in other words, such issues cannot be discussed bilaterally, but it must be made clear that the european union is able to speak with a common voice on the constitution with enhanced possibilities. we must be prepared to use this common voice to lead nato towards strategic discussions. only together can we have an impact, not separate solutions! i sometimes get the impression that, although some of them are calling for solidarity on energy, which is true, we must also show solidarity on other issues in order to arrive at a common european position. it's the only way we have a chance of surviving in this world.
i would like to thank mr elmar brok very much. i do not want to make any judgments, but i believe that this is the essence of the european integration policy that you have expressed.
high representative. mr president, i would like to thank the members for their contributions. it has been a long debate with many speeches. not everybody was here for the whole debate, but i think that a lot of important things have been said. i should also like to express my thanks for the constructive attitude of the majority of the members of this parliament. i would like to state once again my willingness to continue discussing the important issues that strategically we have started discussing this morning. i shall be brief in my summing-up, as i know that you have an important vote at 11.30. we have to condemn in a very clear manner the abduction by iran of the british sailors, and we must demand that they be freed immediately. i think we are in total agreement after today’s debate and we have made it loud and clear. i would like to mention the issue of the middle east, because i think it is going to be one of the most important issues between now and september. i think something may happen during this period of time if there is goodwill, good cooperation with the united states, good cooperation with the arab countries, and good cooperation amongst ourselves. a new situation has been created. a few hours ago i was having dinner in riyadh: i have only just arrived here. i would have liked to have seen some of you there so that you could see the political foreign policy of the european union in action. believe me, when we are there, when we are at those meetings, we count and we count seriously. please believe that. if i could, i would invite you to accompany me. (applause) a few hours ago i was still there debating very important topics which are going to be in the newspapers tomorrow. i hope the results of the negotiations will come to fruition over the coming days. secondly, i would like to bring up once again in this house the issue of lebanon. we have a serious responsibility towards lebanon. it has not been mentioned sufficiently. i would like to repeat once again that for us the government of prime minister siniora is the legal government of lebanon and we have to continue helping that government. (applause)i think the cooperation that we are giving lebanon through the presence of the european unifil forces in the southern part of that country, and the conference that took place in paris not long ago to help in the reconstruction of lebanon, is proof of our commitment to that country. it is fundamental. it is also fundamental to keep supporting the government in lebanon: a government that can produce results, not a blocked government, which is what some people want. it is important to set up an international tribunal to deal with the assassinations of lebanonese leaders, starting with prime minister rafik hariri, who was killed three years ago. we have to achieve a negotiated solution. we are going to do our utmost to achieve that. at those negotiations there will be representatives from the five permanent members of the security council plus somebody from the european union representing all of you – the whole european union. never before in our recent history has something like that taken place. we also have responsibilities in africa. those responsibilities will be fundamental between now and the summer. so until then we have an agenda which is very intense, very dense. if the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs so wishes, i will be very happy to continue following up this agenda here in this house. it is an intense agenda. it is fundamental for stability and peace, not only in the world, but also in the neighbourhood of our continent. thank you once again, mr president. this is the first time i have contributed to a debate in this house which has been chaired by you. you can count on me to support this institution which i greatly respect, whenever necessary. somebody said i was looking for a job but i am not, but in any case maybe you will invite me to come here more often! (applause)
high representative, thank you very much for your speech and your participation in this long debate. we are grateful that you came straight to the european parliament after your return from saudi arabia. you have one of the most difficult responsibilities in the european union: you are the face of our foreign policy. the glass is not half empty, it is half full, and it is our common ambition for the glass to be full. therefore you have the full support and best wishes of the european parliament. written statements (rule 142)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have worked so well, the shadow rapporteurs, the staff of the committee and the parliament's administration, the commission and the finnish and german presidencies. we have succeeded in implementing the crucial improvements we have set out to make, namely clarification of reprocessing, where the commission has assured us of its own directive, clarification of the position of software, clarification of the databases and clarification of the phasing-out and labelling of cmr substances. i have two technical remarks to make. firstly, a change in paragraph 4, where a half-sentence was not deleted as agreed. this half-sentence is entitled 'and a correlation table between those provisions and this directive' and the number 12 must be replaced by '15'. secondly, amendment no 87, which i would ask you to vote against because of the mistake in the first half. the content is not changed.
in writing. with today's agreement at first reading on medical devices, the big move to ban highly dangerous substances in medical devices has been missed. it is a sign of poverty that the blockade imposed by eu member states allows the continued use of carcinogens, mutagens and substances harmful to reproduction (cmrs), even when safe alternatives have been available for a long time. these clear limits on the use of risky soft pvc in ventilation tubes, stomach tubes and infusion devices are overdue. these contain high levels of the reproductive toxic emollient dehp, which is particularly dangerous for babies, children and dialysis patients. premature infants ingest up to 200 times the dose of dehp from tubes alone. the labelling of dangerous plasticizers is a promising development, allowing medical staff to use products without soft pvc. consumers can now actively demand this. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in any case, this is only a temporary solution, because this week the eu commission finally recommended, on the basis of a risk assessment that has been available since 2001, to ban the use of dehp in medical devices for certain risk groups. this ban is long overdue, but better late than never. the eu commission is invited to submit a legislative proposal by the end of the year at the latest.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 29 march 2007.
last week, three employees of the christian zirve publishing house were murdered in the turkish city of malatya in a particularly cruel manner. i condemn in the strongest terms this appalling act and encourage the turkish authorities to continue their efforts to fully clarify the circumstances of this crime. the turkish government has strongly condemned the attacks. i would urge them to hold those responsible to account. the protection of religious minorities and their rights is an important task in a democratic state governed by the rule of law. the european parliament condemns all crimes committed by political or religious fanatics because they hold different opinions and beliefs. ladies and gentlemen, we have just received news that former russian president boris yeltsin, the first president of russia, has died. we would like to express our condolences to the russian people.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 19 april 2007, in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday:the socialist group has asked for the vote on the report by mr sánchez presedo on the green paper: actions for damages for infringement of eu competition law (a6-0133/2007) to be postponed to 11.30 a.m. on wednesday.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
thank you, thank you. we'll look into it.
thank you very much, graham watson. this is a direct order to the president of parliament. i can only support what you have said in substance. the writing is prepared in the sharpest possible form.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the authoritarian regime of vladimir putin is resorting to increasingly violent means to fend off calls for more democracy. in recent months, several demonstrations organized by the opposition have been violently dispersed. people are arrested and interrogated for fear of reprisals. the brutal police action reached its temporary peak last weekend, when even bystanders and journalists - including those from ard and zdf - were attacked and arrested. the russian leadership is no longer using only its courts, as in the khodorkovsky and lebedev cases, but also the entire security apparatus to intimidate and silence political opponents. the european union must therefore not be guided by the existing dependencies on the energy sector in the forthcoming negotiations on a new partnership agreement with russia. respect for human rights, in particular freedom of expression and of the press, and the investigation of these incidents and the various contract killings are very important for further cooperation.
mr horáček, i have the honour to inform you of the following. i shall inform the bureau of this in a moment, but since you have raised this question, i shall inform the house as well. last weekend a member of my cabinet visited moscow for other reasons. it was about questions relating to andrei sakharov. when i heard about the demonstrations in moscow and st petersburg, i asked my cabinet member to contact garry kasparov, and a conversation took place. i told my staff to tell garri kasparov that if he could come to strasbourg or brussels he would be very welcome here and that we would give him the opportunity to provide us with information in an appropriate form. it is very likely that garry kasparov will come to strasbourg in may, so there will also be an opportunity to speak to him. i wanted to tell you that we've been working on your behalf here.
thank you very much, madam. i believe that this is a matter for the polish parliament. it is in the interests of your group - and we all say this - that the principle of subsidiarity should apply. that is why this is a matter for the polish parliament, if i may say so.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission is not we talk a lot these days about explaining the benefits of europe to the citizens. we have an example in this directive which can be very powerful, although it is clear again today in the debate in the plenary that this directive also has a technical side. this technical side of it isn't always very sexy. we must make every effort to present the benefits in a way that is open and understandable to the public. since the introduction of the euro, we have a european payments area, we have a payment inland. a payment room has always been a payment service room. and that's the payment services space that we're taking a step forward. we are now taking forward with this directive what we introduced years ago with crossborder bulk payments. we should have the courage to say so and not get too involved in details. we are glad that the specific features of each member state, such as the cost-effective and consumer-friendly system of direct debits, have been taken into account. we should pay attention in the future to this - mrs de vits has mentioned it - how the market is developing. in particular, we should pay more attention to the extent to which incoming not outgoing payments are charged. we should give this a lot of attention, because i have the impression that there have been some abuses in the recent past. if we are now talking about sepa single european payments area , then we should show that we are in the lead as a parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's airspace is not blocked by the united states. and now when the roaming charges are discussed, there can be talk of a single european telecommunications area (seta). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank in particular our colleague, mr jean-paul gauzès, who has worked very hard to promote this project together with parliament. we have had the euro for some time now, the single european payment area is being promoted by the european parliament, by the european union. this started with cross-border charges and now finds the next step in sepa. the european parliament's special role must be emphasized here. we have succeeded in creating a single solution in spite of the diversity of cultures and the different structures of payment transactions in europe. the decision was made in september last year. it is only through pressure from parliament that the council has been able to reach a solution. unfortunately, some member states still feel that they should stick to their rigid systems at european level. this is not europe! europe is the bringing together of everything, and mr wieland has spoken of this. the european union can show in concrete terms what it means for the citizen with projects like this. finally, as in the case of d+1, there were compromises on the question of credit, payment service providers and consumer protection provisions. the aim should ultimately be to continue to use the adult citizen as a benchmark. but i see this as an important further step and i hope that the directive will be implemented accordingly. but there are still some questions to be answered! recently, my office has been receiving a lot of inquiries about what happens to transfers that are incorrectly filled in and then executed. just one example: someone transferred 150 euros from germany to italy and due to an incorrect input 113 euros were withheld. if the banks continue like this, they will conjure up the next move. i therefore call for sensible self-regulation and for a more citizen-oriented approach. i hope this call doesn't cause the lights to go out again. he wasn't that bad. i would like to thank mr gauzès and the commission once again for the fact that we have managed to bring the council to a consensus.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agreement reached at first reading is an important step towards the single euro payments area, as it will allow the first measures to be launched in time for the start of 2008. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jean-paul gauzès, and the german presidency, and i would also like to thank the commission. the european credit industry has been waiting for this important political signal to kick off. it is worth thanking her for her constructive and very effective cooperation. for consumers, the rules represent a step towards a truly single internal market for financial services. my predecessors have appreciated this. while there is every reason to rejoice, we should not forget that compromise always means compromising the optimal solution. the main cost to credit institutions is the one-day banking deadline, but other structural measures also impose significant costs. the commission has already invested some 23 billion euros in structural adjustment for the whole of the sepa area. a two-bank working day deadline without a derogation would have been simpler, more transparent, more competitive and, in any case, more cost-effective for the european financial community. but we live with this decision that we're going to make tomorrow. the greater cross-border choice of credit institutions is welcome from the consumer's point of view. however, from a consumer protection perspective, it is critical to note that not all providers are subject to the same regulatory arrangements. the principle of 'equal treatment for all' is not always respected. the guiding principle of our policy should always be consumers and a functioning and competitive financial market. in any case, well-functioning, cost-effective and accepted national procedures and financial products should not be sacrificed on the altar of the relatively ever-decreasing number of european payment transactions.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission is not before speaking for the committee, i would like to point out to commissioner verheugen a mistake: i think it is more unfair if you give the impression that those who tabled the compromise have made sure that it proceeds quickly! it was the other way around. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. now, about my speech to the committee. the committee - and i hope that everyone in this house will accept this, not only the council and the commission but also many colleagues - has a very high position under the rules of procedure as regards the treatment of ethical questions. i hope that no one in this house will deny the legal competence of my colleagues on the committee on legal affairs. we have studied this report very carefully and have adopted a large number of amendments. in particular, two amendments, nos 3 and 17, were referred directly to the plenary by the strengthened procedure and they are extremely important. the committee is calling for the removal of the embryonic stem cells. why would you do that? you know that the european court of justice does not allow member states to derogate from a fully harmonised measure under article 95. it is therefore doubtful whether the article will stand up to review by the ecj. the committee therefore proposed a precise wording to supplement article 28. only this creates legal certainty and clarity and is binding, above all, before the european court of justice.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall say just two sentences on the content - we all know that - and then i shall say a word on the procedure. thousands of patients across the european union are waiting in desperation for new treatments to alleviate their suffering or perhaps to save their lives. i would like to say to all those who think that we should exclude certain groups of therapists in all countries, whatever the legal situation, that i would like to repeat what i said in the committee and i mean it. you're cynical, and you're irresponsible, and you should be ashamed, and you should say it to the patient groups' faces! mrs. breyer is not a pinch-hitter either, so i'll let her hear that. i would like to say a few words about the procedure. i will do this in english so that mr mikolášik will understand me directly. mr mikolášik spoke about tabling amendments without the knowledge of the rapporteur. it is not necessarily usual that one clears it with the rapporteur, mr mikolášik. i would have loved to do that with you, but you stopped cooperating at an early stage in the trilogues. i want to read out what we mrs ries, mr adamou and others here did, so that everybody is clear. we tabled a package of 75 amendments. 32 are exactly identical to the amendments from the committee; 18 amendments are slight linguistic changes; 10 amendments are working on a compromise which you and i already agreed on before you stopped cooperating, and 15 amendments are linguistic or legal concerns. that is the situation we are in at the moment. i now want to add something concerning what you said before on the interinstitutional agreement. i think we should just have a result as soon as possible. mr mikolášik, you said that we should have a first-reading agreement. i agree, because thousands of people are waiting for it. i am very grateful to the commission and to the council, who really supported us in reaching a result. from my point of view, they have come as close to parliament's positions as they could going further than i have seen before and further than i expected them to go. naturally, mr mikolášik, we compromised, you compromised and i compromised. in fact, i made a compromise regarding your group's position on hospital exemptions and other things, because i thought, as some of you think, we should have a strong, safe regulation which makes sure that patients get the best scientific support and the best therapies in a safe environment. as regards the so-called 'ethical' amendments, yes, member states who want to ban the use of foetal stem cells should be allowed to do so, and, mrs breyer, everyone who says that the court of justice would deny that and would put it under article 95 is either not knowledgeable, which you are not, and then giving the wrong impression, i am afraid. if you read article 30 of the treaty, you are quite sure that it says that public morality is always a reason to make sure that a member state can ban something. and that's what happened in the past. that is what is happening at the moment in the european union. we have always said that those member states which allow research on it could continue. however, the patients also deserve the right to have the safest, best products available, and that is why i tabled an amendment on subsidiarity, to make sure of that again. that amendment is in the package. it says that every member state which thinks a product should not even be produced there, nor marketed, should be allowed to ban it. in other member states, the patients should have the freedom to obtain it. that's what we're here for.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the vote tomorrow will be a test of how seriously we take the berlin declaration, which speaks a lot about values, and whether we are prepared to actually implement it into european law, or whether it remains a mere rubbish and a sham. three principles are essential to us: firstly, the non-commercialization of the human body. it is not true, mr verheugen, that this is written down elsewhere! this principle is not legally binding. i am surprised at the vehemence with which some people try to prevent this. secondly, we do not want to interfere with the human germline. we don't want a man by the measure! this is not only written in the charter of fundamental rights, but also in the biopatent directive. we do not want the purse to decide on a therapy, nor do we want the future to be about manipulating genetic material in a way that is not reversible. and we don't want chimeras and hybrids either! we want clear bans! it would be a devastating signal, an ethical breach, if the european parliament were to go against these three ethical principles. it is not possible that naive hopes and false promises of a cure for embryonic therapies that are miles away will serve to put parliament on the ethical slippery slope, but we must set a very clear sign of european values here and ensure that ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we should be clear that everyone involved in this regulation wants to help the patients. mr. mikolášik is a doctor, just like me. if we differ on some of the amendments, you should understand that we are not opposed to helping patients. i personally support mr mikolášik and also the motions for resolutions tabled by the legal affairs committee, which have now been tabled again by mr gargani, mr morillon, mrs auken and others. this is the overwhelming majority position of the epp-ed group, which we adopted in the vote last wednesday. i would like to turn to a subject which has not played any role here, but which is very important when it comes to how we can give the right framework to the companies that want to help patients. we have a number of small and medium-sized companies that are already providing outpatient and inpatient treatment. these companies came to me some time ago and said that if the regulation is not changed and we do not get some relief for small and mediumsized enterprises in the context of a national licence, then we cannot offer our services. we should think about this, not in terms of promises of a cure, but in terms of actual companies helping patients today and saying that the commission's proposal for a regulation is not as good as it is being presented. the so-called compromise package does not provide a good solution to this problem of small and mediumsized enterprises either. amendment no 127 provides that smes working with a hospital are exempt from the obligation of european accreditation. smes working on an out-of-hours basis, where the risk is lower, have to apply for admission to london with the many fees and complicated procedure involved. a colleague of mine says that sometimes consensus turns into nonsense. in this case, those who drew up this so-called compromise have done it. mr verheugen said that we do not discuss ethics. then he said, "the principle of non-commercialization of the human body is covered". what's the matter? are we talking about this or not talking about this? if it is covered, then we have a european regulation for it and then we have to check whether it is good. i was rapporteur at the time and i know that this parliament wanted tougher rules. the commission refused to do so at the time, citing the legal basis. now we have a different legal basis. in that case, you would have to at least come up with a good reason and you can't just say that's already covered. we need this regulation, and i have been advocating for five years that we get it. in the commission it was put on hold for three years - not under the responsibility of mr verheugen, but the commission is responsible for three years of delay. mrs roth-berendt, mrs ries and others are responsible for another six months of delay because they rejected the report in september. now, if you give us one more month to discuss this matter in a reasonable parliamentary procedure... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the regulation under discussion is indeed urgent and it is particularly important. it's about new therapies, about uniform quality standards, about the faster availability of high-quality products. in the end, it is also about the competitiveness of the european economy. i therefore congratulate the colleagues who took part in the compromise: it was the right step at the right time. i too have a stomach ache in one or another place, particularly where small and mediumsized enterprises are concerned, which have been slightly underestimated by the compromise package. but we all have to jump over our shadows. it is a question of coherence, of achieving a uniform set of rules, including for the seventh framework programme. yes, it's also about ethics, it's also about the fact that different ethical standards collide and there's a challenge. but ultimately, it's about the people, who should be the focus! preventing suffering that's what we're fighting for here! i would therefore like to congratulate the presidency of the council: you too have overcome your shadow - i know that, mr schröder - and that is precisely why i cannot understand the hysteria, especially among the greens!
draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission is not the committee on legal affairs, which is my committee of origin, is the main body responsible for this report, and it deals mainly with intellectual property rights. i am now drawing up the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on this matter and i shall confine myself to this point of view. mr verheugen has pointed out that we need this legal text. that's right! but we should not always be limited to scraping around the minimum sentence. in the end, it serves no one to change the minimum or maximum sentence by a whole year or half a year up or down. i firmly believe - and this has been confirmed by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs - that we must start working on the principle of determination. we have worked to ensure that this directive, at the end of the day - whether patents are registered or not, it does not matter - contains a positive catalogue of the scope of application, so that the addressee of the legal text - the citizen - does not read some vague term, but sees a catalogue which shows the areas in which he can commit an offence. we are now - and you have made this point, commissioner - entering the field of definitions. if we now start to build what is called a toolbox in civil law, then in criminal law we are faced with defining corresponding definitions. it is no use to dwell on the legal consequences, we must also work on the definitions. that is why this directive is a starting point! i do not understand the criticism. the first step is to try to define the 'professional' tipping point. we are trying to define the term 'purpose', but please do not only refer to this field of application, but ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. as the shadow rapporteur and on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i would like to thank mr zingaretti for his excellent report and, above all, for the excellent cooperation. the report is not about criminalising eu citizens. we want to punish the criminal associations, the organized crime, the professional counterfeiters. i myself attach the utmost importance to the exclusion of private users for personal, non-profit-making purposes. the compromise reached in the legal affairs committee on the definitions is simply a workable solution. i therefore welcome, as does my colleague mr wieland, the definition of infringement on an industrial scale or intentional infringement of an intellectual property right. i also welcome the positive list, which excludes patents. the elements of article 3 were also satisfactorily resolved, so that the following are considered to be criminal offences: first, any intentional infringement committed in the course of an industrial activity; second, the attempt to commit such an infringement; and third, aiding and abetting. the oral amendment on incitement to commit acts is my own, and i would like to make it clear once again that the translations are difficult and in some cases quite wrong. the aim of the fines is to avoid distortions in national criminal law systems in relation to legal persons. the member states should decide for themselves whether they want to impose criminal sanctions or only fines on legal persons. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the internal market.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the structural policy is the strongest expression of the european solidarity community. but cohesion policy is also the largest budget item after the agricultural reform. structural and regional policy are thus the focus of european public attention in terms of content and finances. we've made rules here that have worked so far. the southern enlargement of the union and ireland are great successes from the regional policy point of view. we want to continue this success story, but the challenges are growing. globalisation is rather reinforcing regional differences, and the demographic perspective offers us unfavourable age structures. the situation of public budgets is very volatile and very different today in western europe from twenty years ago. we are facing new challenges with the western balkans and especially with turkey. never before has a country of this size been integrated into the european union with such a weak economic base and such serious national disparities. the tasks and framework conditions therefore present enormous challenges for structural policy. at the same time, new members increase the need for finance. there 's only one number . if we fully calculate the impact of the accession of romania and bulgaria on structural policy, if we also assume that the countries receiving pre-accession aid - the countries of the western balkans, turkey and croatia - would already be members of the community, then structural policy would cost €150 billion more under today's rules and in the current period. turkey alone accounted for 63% of this total. it's an unimaginable sum of money. of course, these countries will not all join the eu at the same time, we know that. but they are interested in joining the european community as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am openly disappointed in the commission. she says it's not an issue yet. the financial chapters would be negotiated later. of course it is now! we cannot be in the middle of a lively accession negotiation and only realize at the end that we may not be able to afford the usual eu enlargement. that is why this report is intended to be a stirring one. from a regional policy point of view, there can be no 'more of this' in european enlargement policy. we are asking for information on what is coming from the structural policy point of view. we are also asking the commission to make proposals on how it will assess the enlargement strategy from a regional policy point of view. we also call for parliament to be involved on an equal footing in the content of pre-accession assistance. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world. parliament has made preliminary work on three points. firstly, we have agreed in substance that we must preserve important basic principles of the european solidarity community. this requires adequate structural funds and we must avoid future enlargements being financed by removing regions from eligibility without their economic situation having improved. secondly, if we are to continue to offer the european regions a prospect of balance and growth, we must make a thorough reform of structural policy elsewhere. we are calling for greater regional and national ownership, for example by means of more loan financing, a review of the use of funds in regions which have been receiving aid for a long time, the questioning of operating subsidies and the linking of european subsidies to a sound national economic policy. the committee of the regions is therefore proposing points which require a rethink in many european regions, which will not always be easy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we want to give the countries receiving pre-accession aid a regional political perspective and we can do so. the amendments to my report in the committee of the regions have made it very clear that turkey is a special dimension. we therefore propose a tiered regional policy model for such major challenges, which will also enable turkey to move closer to european cohesion. instead of the balancing policy pot, the tiered model initially provides for targeted growth promotion, i.e. support for priority regions and sectors with development potential. and we are linking regional policy with a transfer of value, for example in the area of equality. this staged approach can be adapted to the political progress in the candidate countries. it means that there are no barriers which turkey cannot remove itself. it is also not a one-way street into the accession mechanisms of regional policy. i know that this concept of gradual introduction with an open outcome is being criticized by some european parties. i am firmly convinced that this is the only way to ensure turkey's european integration. this is not a special way, but the only way, at least from the point of view of regional policy. i would like to thank the members who have tabled many amendments to this report. i thank the scientific services of parliament, who have assisted us with numerous calculations in a competent and reliable manner. we expect the commission to take the issue of efficiency and enlargement from a regional policy perspective. we look forward to the fourth cohesion report and the structural policy evaluation of the budgetary review.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it is good that the eu is preparing for further enlargements in time. this includes institutional reforms, which have been called for for years, as well as in-depth analyses of the efficiency of the use of european funds. rules that apply to the eu-15 do not apply equally to the eu-27, or even to an eu with more member states. we are in complete agreement with the rapporteur on this point. i would also like to thank you for the generally good and constructive cooperation. but we could not agree on one essential point, which is the very specific and one-sided view of turkey and, in some cases, of the countries of the former yugoslavia. commissioner hübner has just reiterated the impact that enlargement with croatia would have. the attempt is made to evaluate enlargement or integration almost exclusively from a fiscal point of view. progress that could also be achieved through cohesion policy by 2013 remains almost invisible. moreover, despite claims to the contrary, the concept of a privileged partnership is to be made viable again through the back door. i think that the committee on regional development - and this is an own-initiative report - is clearly overstepping its bounds here! we cannot accept the attempt to impose different laws in the eu, one for those who are already in it and another for those who are about to join it. we need a revision of the budget, including cohesion policy! but the outcome must be the same for everyone. i don't want any first-class or second-class members!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make it very clear to my group that the pieper report is not a report on enlargement but a report on future cohesion policy. he's coming at the right time, too. if we miss a reform of cohesion policy and start thinking about what policy we want to make next year, perhaps in 2011, 2012 or 2013, then it is too late for reform! nor does this report decide on the accession of turkey or any other candidate or future candidate country to the european union. however, in order to remove all doubt and to avoid any possible irritation, we shall vote to delete paragraph 14 from the report. but nevertheless, we must begin today to define clearly what kind of cohesion policy we want in the future. it is right that we define a product that includes efficiency, solidarity, sustainable development and proximity to the citizens. we need to take all of this together and see how what we want to do is feasible in practice. it is quite right that the rapporteur is addressing such keywords as the revision of the own resources system, the elimination of disparities throughout the european union and not just in a small part of it, the own responsibility of the member states, the question of whether more loan financing should be made in the future, and the question of how to strengthen and make more use of private cofinancing. the question of demographic change will also be faced, with or without enlargement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the mid-term review is another step on the road to reform, but reform is urgently needed, and that is why i ask for broad support for mr pieper's report!
member of the commission. mr president, the annual policy strategy is structured according to the four strategic priorities of the barroso commission, which we agreed at the very beginning. however, the changes compared to the previous financial year are presented by policy area in accordance with activity-based budgeting. the annual policy strategy serves as a consistent reference framework in the preparation of our preliminary draft budget and our legislative and work programme. of course it does not prejudge the final outcome, which will take into account the priorities of the european parliament and council. the second element we would like to reflect is our screening exercise, which, at the request of parliament, the commission has just finalised. it will be adopted in the commission’s meeting tomorrow. however, i can already announce that the outcome of this profound and serious exercise is quite satisfactory, especially because we confirmed the needs for enlargement, which correlate exactly to the same amounts we and parliament agreed in 2002. the additional 1600 posts needed for new priorities of the council, parliament and the commission will be covered only by internal redeployment. that is a very good result of the exercise which we performed at the request of parliament. we will also take into account the concerns of both parliament and the council regarding the financing of the 25 decentralised agencies and, accordingly, we will adapt our approach in that pdb, which i will present to you next week. concerning the executive agencies – of which we have four and are proposing two more – the commission, as always, will fulfil the conditions of cost-effectiveness and transparency before creating any such agency. the commission is open to discussing the issue with the european parliament, including, as we said during the trialogue, any further improvements in the arrangements between commission and the european parliament concerning those executive agencies. the rapporteur’s report calls for a ‘budget for results’, and i fully share this opinion and approach of mr virrankoski. therefore, next wednesday, as agreed at the committee of budgetary control meeting, i will present the preliminary draft budget, in which i will try to pursue and take into account and reflect as much as possible the views expressed in today’s discussions. i hope we have a successful start for our new procedure for the new budget year.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission is not the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. i am glad that the commissioner will apply what she has just announced for next week to the common foreign and security policy. we have highlighted some policies in particular, such as the neighbourhood policy with the countries of the east and the south, which must also serve the promotion of democracy and human rights there. we have said that we regard the policy towards the western balkans as a priority. it is therefore foreseeable that we will have to make a significant financial effort in 2008 to support the civilian esdp mission and the office of the international civilian representative in kosovo. we call for a clarification as soon as possible of the impact of this mission on the sustainability of the current cfsp state. another key word: energy foreign policy. we call for the gradual establishment of a common external energy policy. the keyword in afghanistan is that we need adequate funding for civilian reconstruction alongside the improvement of the security situation, otherwise we will not be able to win the hearts and minds of the people there in the long term. key word africa: in december 2007, the major eu-africa summit will take place in lisbon, and it is foreseeable that we will have to follow up our decisions there with action - and this is also very important in terms of supporting african troops in resolving african conflicts with african means. we must also send political signals in this sense!
the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very warmly. you see, madam commissioner, the vast majority of the group's speakers support the approach proposed by our rapporteur-general for the 2008 budgetary procedure. in fact, in addition to the budgetary procedure which begins with the commission's preliminary draft budget, we have created a number of accompanying measures and complementary structures in recent years, such as this annual strategic plan or the screening report which is due to be presented next week. we are also particularly grateful to the commission for taking the initiative of presenting to the public, including this house, twice a year the actual implementation of the budget, so that we all know where the deficits lie, where there can be improvements and what the consequences of this are, also for the subsequent budgetary procedure. this is extremely useful and should be used by all of us. however, given the variety of instruments, we must consider whether the timing and networking of these instruments cannot be optimized to make the best use of them. we must work on this with all due care. i would have liked the commission's annual strategic plan to have not only largely correctly framed the question of old and new priorities in advance, but to have put the issue of better regulation at the heart of its daily work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am not sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. we have considered in committee whether we should report on this because we do not appreciate the importance of the subject very highly and we are not that far apart in terms of time. we decided to do so, however, knowing that under article 37 you would not accept what we propose if it does not suit you. we would have a different situation if we had co-decision here and the constitution had been adopted. we want to make it clear and show that parliament and the committee on agriculture and rural development have certain ideas which differ from the commission's overall approach to sugar market reform. we want to make it clear that we prefer to move towards european or acp sugar, which we have concluded contracts on. the trend which is emerging, namely that the sugar industry imports raw cane sugar from other countries because it is cheaper there and refines it here, and we are putting at risk the production of sugar beet in our own country, cannot be welcomed. we want to make it clear that the proposals we made for sugar reform might have been more successful than what we are now experiencing and dealing with on the ground. you have also chosen a different approach to a quota or to an administrative way of returning quantities. the commission's proposals now also mention possible administrative withdrawal, because the other approach has not worked. what works is a big mess on the ground. the restructuring measures have not been adopted. our proposal that the factories should and must draw up a rural development plan when they receive funds - you have also confirmed that this is sensible in terms of content - has not been implemented. the commission is ordering the felling of trees, the dismantling of factories, without any substitute for the rural economy. the result is that the sugar industry is building biofuel plants that run on corn, palm oil and grain instead of sugar beet. this is all a big mess. if you look at your proposals now, i don't know if the administration is aware of how many different measures are to be taken. there is no clear line, and it is regrettable that the expertise of parliament and, in this case, the committee on agriculture and rural development is not being used because we do not have the possibility of co-decision. you or the council will hear this, and when we've voted, you can do whatever you want again. but that's not the end of this argument. this debate, mrs fischer boel, is perhaps less political. i trust you very much want to involve parliament, but the administration doesn't want to. in my estimation, the administration is fighting back and will do everything it can to defend its power and to undermine the political influence of parliament. i hope that after the french elections we will have a different situation and move forward on the constitutional issue, and that after the 2009 elections the new parliament will then also have a say in the agricultural sector. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have a dispute here. we are calling for article 95 but the commission is resisting. we have also made some good suggestions here. the fact that the council - and i hope we will discuss this again - is now adopting an exception for genetically modified substances in food additives is, in fact, a piece of madness, because we say on principle that genetic engineering must not be used. these are procedures which would not take place if we had greater coherence and could take account of the expertise and political foresight of parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the quotas for potato starch were not arbitrarily fixed by the commission but were negotiated and signed by the polish government in the course of accession. so there's a contract to be kept. i believe that the polish soul likes to complain, just as other nations have different feelings. i think that this amendment will be adopted tomorrow with the balance. you will recall that the amendment was adopted once before, but the commission had technical difficulties in implementing it. that was the case again in the committee. i would ask you, when the amendment is voted on tomorrow, which does not concern the increase in the overall quota but the balancing, not to tell your people who are dealing with it how it cannot be done, but perhaps how it can be done, and thus to approach the matter in a more positive way. this does not necessarily mean that the entire quantity to be balanced is made available. but to show goodwill here - and perhaps within a reasonable timeframe - would be an offer from the commission.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the discharge for the other institutions for which i was responsible concerns the discharge for the council, the european court of justice, the court of auditors, the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee, the ombudsman and the data protection officer. the last two i see no reason to object to at the moment. but to begin with the council: there has been a so-called gentlemen's agreement on certain budgetary matters since 1970. the european community has, however, made enormous progress since then. there have been some not-so-substantial things that have happened that make the gentlemen's agreement seem inappropriate today. for example, we now have a european parliament elected by free, secret and direct elections. i am firmly convinced that it is urgently necessary to adapt this agreement to the present situation. i therefore suggest that the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control meet in a joint session in the coming months to discuss this important issue and to demand urgent changes from the council with a common position. the council also welcomes the fact that the common foreign and security policy is gaining in importance. that's good! it is unacceptable that the council does not respect the agreement and clearly distinguish between the operational costs to be included in the commission's budget and purely administrative expenditure. i therefore call on the council to finally abide by this regulation in future. we still need to improve the european court of justice and the european court of auditors. for example, the publication of the economic and financial interests of judges and auditors is still unclear. we have already raised this matter several times in the european parliament. we therefore set a deadline in our resolution for 30 september this year for the two institutions to state how they will comply with parliament's request for the publication of economic and financial interests, because we have been waiting for these statements for far too long! it is not until the latest enlargement that the court of auditors is asked whether it should maintain the number of auditors it has so far. there are already several models for reforming the court. for example, the former president of the court of auditors, professor dr bernhard friedmann, has drawn up a very sensible proposal, namely a rotation principle similar to that of the governing council of the ecb. the creation of a chief auditor in place of the existing college could also be useful. the court should therefore not invoke the existing treaty situation and remain inactive in the direction of reform. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the future of the common services is being discussed by the economic and social committee and the european committee of the regions. there is something wrong with the organisation of these services if the committee of the regions in particular has the impression that it is being disadvantaged. therefore, both committees should carry out a neutral analysis of costs, benefits and savings based on appropriate benchmarks, including, where necessary, the court of auditors or other advisors. the aim of the discussion must be to ensure that the common services will in future be responsive, well coordinated and cost-effective. the main focus of this year's discharge was on the question of how to deal with questionable correction coefficients in the committee of the regions, but also in other institutions. the legality of these payments cannot be judged in the discharge procedure. that's for the courts to decide. the question is whether the administrative hierarchy of the committee of the regions has responded adequately and how it has dealt with the case in principle. i am convinced that there is still a need for action by the committee of the regions. in all cases of detected fraud, disciplinary action must be taken as soon as possible and those involved held accountable. the european parliament will continue to monitor this case and in connection with this case we must also examine the staff regulations with a view to whether the interpretation of rules and transitional rules can be a purely administrative matter. i think that the legislative bodies in the union should leave much less room for manoeuvre to the administration than in the past. overall, the result of the discharge shows the importance of close budgetary control by the european parliament. i thank all the institutions for their cooperation and for providing the requested information and recommend that the institutions be given a discharge, taking into account the points raised.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking the committee on development and the commission, the court of auditors and the two rapporteurs, mr camre and mr garriga polledo, for their cooperation. it is good to see that our observations are also fully incorporated in the decision-making of parliament. we as a development committee have a responsibility to ensure that the money we spend to help the most vulnerable people in the world to become self-reliant is used properly and appropriately. the acceptance of the public is very much dependent on the fact that it does not give the impression that some powerful people are collecting the faucets, but that the money actually reaches the people who really need it. so we've been looking at this very closely. the court of auditors has found, as in many other contexts, that there were substantial errors in the award of contracts. we have looked at each of them individually and we have of course found that mistakes were made in the award procedure. however, these were not errors which were detrimental to the european union, but were errors in the procedure which need to be corrected so that we can also give clear information that the funds are being used properly. the discharge procedure is also a political procedure. we are checking whether the commission has actually implemented what we intended when we drew up the budget. we have checked whether environmental legislation has been given priority, whether crisis prevention has been strengthened and whether - which has been the subject of intense debate - 20% of the budget is actually spent on basic education and basic health care in developing countries. the figures are increasing, i must say, but they are still far from the 20% we agreed on together. the idea that this is related to the fact that there are so many donors and institutions to coordinate here is only very reassuring to a very limited extent. i must say very clearly that the european union is by far the largest donor in the world, together with its member states. we can say that with confidence. but at the same time, it cannot be that anyone here stands before parliament and says that we have been concentrating on other areas and we hope that what parliament and the council have set as priorities during the budgetary procedure will be finally fulfilled. we have had very good cooperation with the commission officials. there are firm commitments that we will receive relevant information and indicators during the year and that we will demonstrate significant progress. and as someone who is always very much involved in the budgetary procedure, i can tell you clearly that when i draw up the next budget, i will also make sure that we follow very closely the improvements announced in the implementation of the budget - both in terms of the targeted use of funds and the fulfilment of the political objectives - and also that our behaviour as a parliament in drawing up the budget is based on whether you actually fulfil your obligations or not.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the budgetary part available for the policies for which the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is primarily responsible is not very large. in 2005 - the year for which we are now required to confirm the proper use of european taxpayers' money - it was less than half a percent of the total budget of €116 billion. to put it in a nutshell: there was nothing to prevent the directors of the four agencies emea, eea, efsa and ecdc from being given a discharge in respect of the implementation of their respective budgets. the european centre for disease prevention and control has had a successful first month of operation in 2005. the directorate-general for health was responsible for the implementation of the budget. the european food safety authority was in the middle of moving to parma in its third year of operation 2005 . this has led to difficulties in recruiting the necessary highly qualified scientific staff and has inevitably led to the fact that not all the money available could be spent. more than eur 4 million has been returned to the community budget. how these funds will be made available or intended to be made available again to efsa for use this year is not the subject of this discharge procedure. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal. the european medicines agency has worked to our satisfaction. it has not spent all the money apparently partly due to technical difficulties in the it system conversion. the european environment agency did an excellent job, as usual. she has used all the resources properly and could have used more. the committee on the environment has no fundamental criticism of the implementation of the budgets of its four agencies. nevertheless, we have used the discharge procedure to require the two 'old' agencies - the emea and the eea - to do what is already stipulated in the basic regulation of the 'new' one, namely to have their work regularly reviewed and evaluated by independent experts. we want to ensure that european added value is secured in all forms of european administrative action, including the agencies. the commission's responsibility in the field of environment, public health and food safety. in all areas, the utilization rates for commitment appropriations were quite satisfactory. but the payment rates left much to be desired. they were below 80% in both health and food safety and the environment. of course, there are explanations. on the one hand, the establishment of the public health executive agency was not yet completed and at the same time staff was committed to the preparation of the new health and consumer protection programme, and on the other hand, the budgetary commitments problems in 2004 in the environmental field led to payment problems in 2005. the commission's explanations are understandable, but it must be able to anticipate any difficulties in order to take immediate action. the commission is not so inexperienced in dealing with problems of administrative action!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the committee on transport and tourism notes that the 2005 budget allocated just under eur 1 billion for commitments and just under eur 1 billion for payments to transport policy. the largest part of the appropriations is for the transeuropean networks, namely eur 670 million in commitment appropriations and eur 750 million in payments. the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the committee is concerned, however, about the above-average error rate in research contracts in the transport sector and that only 51% of the available funds are being allocated to road safety - an important programme because we want to halve the number of accidents. as far as the transeuropean networks are concerned, it is important that we focus on what brings efficiency to transport policy, and not start with the major projects only to find that after half the time the necessary funding is lacking. there are projects in many member states which have been abandoned because they lack the necessary funds. we must put the modernization of existing infrastructure at the top of the agenda and then think about new construction. we must use the limited resources to achieve the greatest possible efficiency. and we must not only think of the north-south projects, but europe must grow together. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the railway infrastructure in the community. of course, climate change is also important. the transport sector is one of the largest emitters of co2 at 30%. that is why we must also focus on climate and sustainable policies in research projects. this is not enough, it must change! we have relieved the agencies of their burden, but they must also be given the necessary resources to do the necessary work.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as the author of the opinion for the committee on culture and education, i would first like to say that we are not convinced that what we are spending on culture and education is sufficient. the committee on culture and education was much more ambitious and regretted that parliament, the commission and the council as a whole did not provide more money. we want to give europe a soul. we want to give all students the opportunity to study in europe, and we should also make changes here in the next few years in the framework of the lisbon strategy. i would like to say in general that it is crucial, especially in the case of large cultural and youth programmes, to have a very careful - that is, responsible and transparent - spending policy on the one hand and, on the other, not to over-regulate with the existing rules and to follow wrong bureaucratic approaches. i know, after the corruption and scandals we've had, we have to be very sensitive. still, we shouldn't shoot over the target. in the case of small projects, particularly those involving eur 20 000, applicants should not have to submit dozens of pages to be able to win an application in the first place. secondly, when we have 99 national cultural agencies, we can get a lot of wildlife. this could be a better management. thirdly, i think it is not the right approach to continue to finance this second parliament in strasbourg from our budget. if the french are not prepared to give up this second location and save money, then the council should be responsible for these expenses in the future.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the committee on women's rights and gender equality has not found the evaluation easy. we have already mentioned on several occasions that gender data are needed to evaluate expenditure. unfortunately, these data are not yet available. in this respect, gender budgeting and gender mainstreaming in evaluation are not entirely possible either. we ask that this information be included in the next discharge reports. in particular, for structural fund programmes, etc., precise data are needed to see how much is ultimately available for equal support for women. it turns out that the money in the daphne programme didn't flow. this is a big problem. we know that violence against women, children and young people is enormous. we have evidence that the projects proposed were very good, and yet the funds did not flow. there must be a way around this. in this case, a number of transeuropean projects were rejected. we are preparing a european year against violence. the council of europe has launched a campaign. there is a huge need here and the commission must act.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to thank all the rapporteurs on behalf of the epp. thanks to your work, we're making progress again. we may be making more progress in the agencies than elsewhere. mrs herczog, thank you very much for the really good ideas you have brought in. it is important to bring the agencies closer to the commission. we need a blocking minority in the supervisory bodies for the commission. the commission must understand and accept these agencies as partners in the legislative and management of eu programmes. the commission's budget, unfortunately, is almost unchanged. we will have to concentrate from now until the end of the period on how to obtain at least a full declaration of reliability for the direct administration. the commission should show in its own field that it can do this and that it does it well. we want to be your partner in this matter and support you! but that requires that you take the initiative. we'll walk you through everything from tolerable risk to single audits and all the questions that go with it! i would also like to thank the court of auditors, which is a very important institution for us, and its staff. you have done a good job and we will be counting on you in the years to come! we have to work on this, commissioner, and perhaps we should focus on the following: they owe us information on the figures and the recovery, which we still can't figure out. it would be very important for you to explain to us here what figures we can rely on. there are at least four different numbers that have been circulating in the last six, eight weeks. as regards the budget of this parliament, we are tabled motions for a resolution on the pension fund not because we are against it and want to comment on its content, but because we do not want to prejudge the work of the working party which we have all set up together. why should we restrict this work now? i therefore ask you to support these amendments. it is not a preview of what should come out of these issues, but it is an opportunity for this group to do what they think is right.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs who have done an excellent job. perhaps the minister for health will help us in the council to make budgetary controls a little more transparent. she's doing a lot of work in the health sector. perhaps this is an example for us too. there's a saying in germany: "when you ride, your own stable must be clean". what do i mean? 80% of the funds are managed by the member states. but if i look at the big headlines of the past, including those of the last few months, which concerned the commission's building policy and certain structures which have not helped to ensure that transparent procedures for awarding contracts are put in place, it is clear that we must examine in particular the 20% managed by the commission. it is no use to push the black peter back and forth between the commission and the member states. everyone has their responsibility. the commission too needs to do a lot of work to break down such structures. i remember very well what the commission promised us in this house in 1999 in connection with the resignation of the commission of the day. as far as transparency is concerned, i sometimes do not know what is the point and what is the nonsense of this discussion. i hope that will be explained to me. in my country, mr bösch, the fraud rate, which is not a fraud rate but an error rate due to incorrectly completed applications - not with criminal intent - is 0.9%. i am therefore concerned that the administrative burden of going from 0.9% to 0.5% is much greater than the savings we can make in the interest of the taxpayer. we must find a fair balance here. then we're on the right track.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i thank the colleagues who have contributed to this report. we have agreed in committee on 19 compromise amendments. the majority in the committee was 35 to 3. i hope that the house will confirm this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not quite sure, but i am afraid you did not vote on paragraph 75. you said you were going to vote on number 76, but the display said number 75. you said you were going to vote on 77, but the display said 76. i would ask you to clear up this ambiguity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was actually going to agree to the pieper report because i think it is a good report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am surprised that a majority in this parliament does not share my view that turkey's accession would overload the eu's capacity for integration in the context of cohesion policy. my second amendment is as follows: 'considers that it is not possible for financial and political reasons to transfer the principles of eu structural policy to turkey'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. in today's vote on the commission's discharge for the 2005 budget, i voted against the discharge because, as in previous years, the european court of auditors did not issue a statement of assurance for this year. this shows that the economy and efficiency of the use of funds as in many years before is not guaranteed. as you know, commission president barroso has stated that he wants to achieve full das by 2009. i have no idea what the commissioner has to say about the situation in the united kingdom.
the next item is the joint debate on the following: report by dirk sterckx, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2002/59/ec on the establishment of a community vessel traffic monitoring and information system (com (2005) 0589 c6-0004/2006 2005/0239 ((cod)) (a6-0086/2007), report by jaromír kohlíček, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down the principles governing the investigation of accidents in maritime transport and amending directives 1999/35/ec and 2002/59/ec (com (2005) 0590 (((0590)) c6-0056/2006 2005/0240 ((cod)) (a7-0079/2007), report by paolo costa on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2005/587/ec on the common system of track and roadworthiness tests for ship-borne goods and passenger transport (com (2005) 0587 (a06) 2005/063 (cod)) and a proposal by the european parliament and the committee on transport and tourism (com (2005) c7-0087 (a8-0057 (cod)) and a proposal by luis vk)) on behalf of the committee on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and the european parliament and of the committee on transport committee on the european parliament and tourism (com) on the regulation on the regulation on passenger transport of passenger ships and tourist traffic and traveller) (com (com (2005-006-06-06-06-06-06-06-06-06-06-06-06-06-06)
the committee on fisheries has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised. i stress this because we have already adopted the reports by marta vincenzi and gilles savary. i would therefore like to remind the council once again that erika iii consists of seven dossiers and that we in parliament are firmly convinced that they form a package which we also want to examine together. i am speaking in several capacities - not only for the committee on fisheries but also for my group - and i would first of all like to thank all the rapporteurs for their work. the vote in committee will show that we are in agreement on all the dossiers, as will the vote in plenary tomorrow. we have heard that the council is not exactly happy about some of the decisions or votes of parliament, but that there is still some discussion to be had. the sterckx report shows how closely the individual dossiers are interwoven. it is of course good that the member states are now finally identifying emergency ports and emergency shelters. it is also good that in all the countries an independent body decides what actually happens after a crash, that there are no discussion forums, but that one decides. but it is, of course, inconceivable that in a shipwreck, the lifeboat comes and asks the captain, "are you insured?" the captain replies, "no, i'm sorry, but my shipowner didn't insure me properly", and the rescue crew says, "okay, let's leave it at that" and leave. of course, we need help here. the question of insurance must be asked to the port state control. this is also provided for in the vlasto report, on which we were able to reach agreement. where we have not been entirely agreed - dirk sterckx has already raised this - is the question of which fishing vessels should be equipped with which systems. this is about more security. i still believe that it makes little sense to equip vessels under 24 metres with ais systems and that the same results can be achieved by other means from land. the accident statistics are not very telling. we would then have to include all private vessels, not just small fishing vessels. but there may be other technical solutions in the future. a few remarks on port state control, which i also make on behalf of my colleague robert navarro, who cannot be here today. i think it is very sensible that we should abandon the rigid principle of controlling 25% of the ships. it was probably necessary at the time as a first step. but the control of 25% in each member state is less useful than what is now emerging, namely the concentration on high-risk vessels. that means you control the black sheep, so from the black sheep to the dark gray, gray to the light gray sheep. but controlling white sheep doesn't make much sense. this procedure certainly makes sense. the commission's proposals have not yet been adopted, although we have repeatedly called for it in the sterckx report and in the report by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. everything that has to do with the so-called human factor - the social dimension, the good working conditions on board a ship - has an impact on ship safety. a ship certainly must not only be technically sound, but it must also be socially orderly. if not, then overall safety is compromised. we have said it many times here: 80% of accidents are due to human error. that is why we need more proposals from the commission on this human factor, including in the direction of safety checks. then the whole thing is complete.
member of the commission. if you come up with such a proposal i just take it as a message, but let me also say that a substantial area of the greek islands is still under the convergence objective as far as i remember. in terms of the eligibility of the funding, everything is possible, so we should not have problems with this. let me also say that, for the islands, as i said at the beginning, we have also agreed on higher co-financing rates, so there are some additional facilities or measures which can also help the islands, but i am open to any discussion about the islands. we can continue the debate later on.
member of the commission. this is a question which i think is very important for the future. we have introduced some changes also to our regulations, to our approach, to have this better visibility. this policy is based on the principle of shared management, and within this shared responsibility with member states it is for the member states in fact to ensure appropriate information and publicity on the structural funds intervention. we have also put into the regulation for the period 2007-2013 the requirement which is in a way consolidating and strengthening the requirements that we have today in our regulation. it says clearly that for every operational programme there should be an operational officer; for every operational programme there should be a communication plan. we also put into the regulation the minimum requirements for this kind of operational plan for communication. the information obligation also concerns final beneficiaries who must inform the public by putting up a billboard during the implementation of big projects which are also linked with physical investment and the purchase of physical material. there is also the requirement to have a permanent explanatory plaque should inform the public of european participation in the project. this is also true for training projects, where the participants must be informed by the beneficiary that eu funding is involved. we have also introduced a brand new element to this through a commission regulation. we will also have a publication giving the list of beneficiaries, as well as the amounts of public funding that they receive. so there will be national databases which will have to be publicly accessible, then the commission will also establish a website and include on that the links to those databases. all that should be in place early next year. there will also be databases created by both dg regio and dg empl containing the information at programme level – not at project level, which concerns member states, but at programme level. it will be classified by country and by region. this will also contain the description of the operational programmes. so there will certainly be access to information: that is absolutely clear. we started the exchange of experience between all the communication officers involved in november or december last year, but we will continue, reaching full speed at the end of this year. so at the end of this year we will be having the first big meeting with the communication officers of all the operational programmes just to share best practice and to exchange information about the communication activities which will have been developed by that time. i hope that through those efforts and new regulations we will be able to make this policy even more visible to the citizens. we also hope that this increased transparency will also have a positive impact on the quality of the policy and on the management of the policy.
member of the commission. that is exactly what i was trying to say. we now have these new transparency initiatives so there will be national websites where the member states and the regions are obliged to present and to publicise the information on the final beneficiaries and the amount of funds allocated to them. the commission – all the dgs responsible for the structural funds – will have to provide a direct link from our website to those national websites with the information. we will also independently be producing information on the operational programmes, which will also be put on the web. there will be more activities through those information officers on the ground in the regions within the member states. i hope that in this way we will reach more citizens with the information, but also that we increase transparency and the quality of the programme and the projects.
member of the commission. my services and i have been cooperating with the netherlands government for quite some months on this issue, in particular with the foreign minister. as far as i know there is a procedure about which i am sure mr van nistelrooij knows, but as far as we know today, there is still an internal discussion within the dutch government and no proposal has yet been made to the council to modify the treaty, because this process would require the modification of the treaty and only at that stage would the commission be asked to present its opinion. but in the meantime, before the council has asked us, or before the whole process is started, we have been working with the netherlands foreign ministry, providing them with the information, what this would mean, what kind of pros and cons should be taken into account, what the consequences would be for those territories if they become new outermost regions, and i hope that this information that the commission has provided so far can help the dutch government to make the decision. nevertheless, the whole process can only take place when the council gets the application from the dutch government and, as i said, only then can the commission formally make an assessment of the consequences. what i can say today is that the three islands that we are talking about have a very small population – just 30 000. so in terms of adding to the challenges that the funds are facing, it is not much. however, we all know that the budgetary framework has been decided for the years up to 2013, so any additional funds would have to be negotiated and decided on by the council in particular. this would most likely be part of the whole process of change of the budget, but we are still far from this stage at the moment.
member of the commission. as i said, we were approached by the governments so we provided all the information that was needed. we can do the same for the islands if we are asked to do so by anybody who requires this information. we can certainly do that, but if the islands were to change their status and the amendment of the treaty were to take place, then eu law would be applicable and would be implemented in these territories, including all the regulations which are related to european regional policy. in the meantime, as i said, we can provide all the information which is needed.
the commission's vice-president president mauro, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate mrs lichtenberger on her very constructive report. the agreement on the common european aviation area is not the least of the challenges. the agreement was signed last june by 37 parties, which is probably an unprecedented number for an airline agreement. it is leading us to create a unique global network that will bring people, countries and cultures closer together. air transport in this respect plays a vital role in the integration and further development of europe as a whole. the agreement on the common european aviation area goes beyond the simple opening up of markets. it creates a unique space. it brings the whole of the balkan and south-eastern european countries into the european family. the air links facilitated by this agreement will not only be more numerous but also of better quality. these links will promote people-to-people exchanges, whether for trade or private travel, for example in the context of tourism, which is booming in most of the countries concerned. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the air transport sector is a key sector in the development of the eu. like the energy treaty for south-east europe, the agreement on the common european aviation area is a necessary step towards an ever closer union of europeans, which remains the union's deepest calling. it represents a key step towards establishing a single aviation area between the european union and its neighbours by 2010, together with the recent agreement with morocco and the negotiations which have just started with ukraine. the purpose of this agreement is clear and promising, but it is also necessary to emphasize the value of the method chosen. this method is based on two pillars. the first pillar is regulatory convergence, i.e. the harmonisation of european standards and rules in the field of air transport in such crucial areas as safety, security, competition, social policy, consumer rights and environmental protection. the harmonization of national and community legislation demonstrates the desire of the balkans to share the values and principles of the european union, and the level of regulatory convergence is unprecedented: all partners in this agreement have committed themselves to align their national legislation with community legislation. the second pillar is the creation of new opportunities through the opening up of markets. we are in the process of creating a single aviation market of 35 countries for over 500 million people, and this market is expanding rapidly. since 2001, air traffic between the european union and south-east europe has grown by almost 120%. this trend will accelerate with the full integration of a region which is forecasting growth in aircraft movements of 6% per year until 2011. the number of seats on flights between the european union and the balkans has increased from 12 million to 14 million since 2005. the benefits of this agreement are felt by all. for this venture to be successful, the commission must also rely on a third pillar: technical assistance. we intend to monitor the application of the legislation while providing the partners with the support they may need. and i will keep you informed, ladies and gentlemen, of the progress made and the evolution of the situation. i would like to thank your rapporteur, mrs lichtenberger, again for supporting this european initiative to create a common european aviation area. once again, mr president, the alliance between parliament and the commission is making it possible to achieve very important results in the general interest of europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the great work she has put into this report, and in particular into the resolution, and to assure her that she is not an old optimist but a young optimist. the epp group is fully in favour of the creation of a larger common european air transport area of the european union with the countries of iceland and norway from the european economic area and the neighbouring countries of south-east europe, because this multilateral agreement will eventually bring all countries gradually to the same air transport rights, thus creating a single legal area for air transport in europe, from air traffic control to air traffic control to the conditions of competition for airlines. we are also strengthening the safety and the rights of air passengers. i am very grateful to the rapporteur for having drafted the resolution. i do not want to label everything as environmentally friendly, but i am advocating sensible mobility. we therefore call on all member states to take part immediately in effective measures to implement the concept of a single european airspace with an effective airspace control system. airspace controls can reduce co2 emissions in the european union by up to 12%. we also support the efforts to introduce a sensible european system of emissions trading for aviation in order to achieve further environmental effects. but we shall discuss the rationality of emissions trading elsewhere. finally, i would like to point out that it is also important that we help each other in training and upgrading personnel and equipping them with the most modern airspace surveillance equipment, because we need a safe and efficient airspace system in europe.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, commissioner barrot, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is a little frustrating to see where we have ended up over time with the delay in the galileo project. it is certainly an ambitious programme to have a ppp project implemented at european level for the first time. but the small and medium-sized enterprises that took part in the green paper survey are waiting to be able to create, build and distribute their applications so that the jobs that everyone expects can also be created. economics demands that we always be free of politics. 'economy makes economy' is a common saying. however, i always have the feeling - although i am always very pro-business personally - that when the economy gets into trouble, it turns to politics and shuns the risk. a fair sharing of investment, risk and profit is of paramount importance in the ppp model. the financial resources which were initially set aside for the authority in the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy were intended as a warning to those concerned to go ahead and make up the shortfall. we are well aware that, according to an old proverb, we are more likely to beat the sack and thereby mean a certain content, but unfortunately we have no other means of exerting pressure. we remain optimistic and our group, the social democrats, continues to support the project, but our patience is running out. i hope that the deadlines and dates that have been set will lead to the fact that the industry and the appropriate consortium will now meet. i would like to conclude with a further remark: enough of the talk, let us see action.
mr president, mr vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. my group fully supports the rapporteur. let's be honest with each other. we in parliament have already warned the member states in 2002 that they must contribute to the costs of measures to ensure public security and order. we asked you to present a concept of how the question of financing between airports should be settled in a non-competitive manner. you then submitted a report, but in the report you did not say: 'here is a proposal on how we can regulate this in a way that is neutral to competition' or that it was not worth making a proposal. so we're still waiting for a proposal. we told the council of ministers last year that we expected it to be clear about its financial responsibility. he's declared again that he's not ready for that. we are no longer prepared to play these games for five years since 2002. there is no real pressure to carry out this revision either, because the basic regulations we have now - the best example being the sub-regulation on liquids in hand luggage - have been made on this basis. i am not quite sure that this regulation will last long. there is no reason to say: 'we have to withdraw them now because we are obstructing any security measures'. if you want to propose new security measures, come to parliament. we're ready to go. we think that we will have to take up the risk analysis, and hopefully together with you, in addition to the question of liquids in hand luggage. i have serious doubts whether the present regulation really represents a gain in safety or whether it is not disproportionate. but let's talk about this openly. please do not say, "the intelligence people have information they cannot give us". we have a responsibility to the citizen to give clear answers. if your departments, and above all the departments of the council of ministers, are not prepared to play their cards straight, we will not tolerate this tactic any longer.
the commission has already done so. the revised version of regulation 2320/2002 has been a success and should be implemented as soon as possible. first , two sentences on the sunset clause: we are faced with a dilemma. no politician, no civil servant will take responsibility for rebuilding inefficient security structures. the burden of proof must therefore be on those who want to extend an implementing regulation, not those who want to let it expire. that's the main reason. secondly, sometimes you have to react very quickly, as you did with the liquids, but then you have to do the risk assessment and cost analysis to make sure that it really works properly. the sunset clause is also reasonable. the main question, the dispute over finance, is that we should refocus on what motivated us in the beginning: how can we reduce distortions of competition and achieve transparent, as uniform as possible, funding models in europe? the commission must intervene as an intermediary. we should not dwell too much on the contentious question of whether the taxpayer or the passenger should bear the cost. i think that is not productive and that is not the way forward. we need proposals on how to achieve transparent financing models in europe that are as uniform as possible.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr seeber, for his excellent work on the flood directive, and the whole environment committee for its positive contribution. i am particularly pleased with the rapid progress made both at first and second reading. the european parliament has played a very constructive role in reaching agreement on a very good text and i would like to extend those efforts. the aim of the proposal is to reduce the risks posed by floods to human health, economic activities and the environment. the text, in its present form, does indeed reflect these objectives and enables the european union to achieve them. the main features are as follows: the directive introduces a three-stage procedure, as mr seeber has already mentioned, which starts with the identification of areas where there is a potentially significant risk of flooding. the next step is to map expected floods under intermediate and extreme scenarios. the third stage concerns the preparation of flood risk management plans. these will be coordinated along entire river basins, basins shared by more than one country, and coastal areas. in addition, provision has been made in the context of flood risk management to deal with a possible increase in the frequency and intensity of floods due to climate change and - i agree with mr seeber - i am particularly pleased that parliament has insisted on a strong reference to climate change. as climate change is already happening, it is clear that in addition to addressing and reducing it, adaptation will inevitably be needed. the european union will need to prepare for even worse flash floods associated with more intense and unpredictable rainfall. coastal flash floods due to storms, combined with sea level rise, are likely to increase flood risks in coastal areas. the european union must be prepared to face the risks that these natural phenomena may cause. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the water sector is not left behind. integrated river basin management must include both water quality management and flood risk management. i am very pleased that the european parliament has supported the commission in this matter and that the scope for possible synergies between the two procedures has been widened. the main points raised at first reading were retained. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is applied throughout the european union, with particular emphasis on river basins shared by more than one member state. with this new and important piece of legislation the european union will be ready to reduce and minimise the potentially devastating effects of floods.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr richard seeber, for his excellent cooperation. it has negotiated a viable compromise with the council presidency, which contains substantial improvements compared with the commission's proposal. it is important to have a common approach in europe to prevent flood damage. rivers and floods know no national boundaries. the measures taken by a state in the upper reaches of a river have a real impact on the areas further downstream in the event of flooding. these cases are often also of a cross-border nature. i therefore think it is important that all the member states of the european union take preventive measures to prevent flooding and not wait for disasters to happen. but, as with other commission proposals, it is our duty as a parliament to ensure that unnecessary bureaucracy, excessive administrative burdens and unusual reporting obligations are avoided. we have been able to prevent some of them from becoming too bureaucratic and have made substantial improvements. in particular, i am in favour of the compromise on the protection of existing or in the process of being drawn up flood plans and maps. our intervention now recognises all maps and plans already completed by member states or currently under development and completed by the end of 2010. in some countries, the preparation and development of these flood protection maps is well under way. changing this process now in the middle would have been unnecessary duplication of work and would have resulted in significant additional expenditure through new calls for tender without any benefit to flood control. i am therefore pleased that the compromise provides for these maps and plans to be recognised under the directive. i shall therefore vote in favour of the compromise and thank the rapporteur once again for his good cooperation!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we shall adopt a joint and unanimous resolution tomorrow condemning the brutal action taken by the russian state forces against the demonstrators. we expect the same clarity to be used at the eu-us summit. we are, of course, in favour of new economic relations, of strengthening transatlantic relations on a new basis. but this foundation must be based on clear values, democratic values, and the european union itself has promised to defend them. we need a bridge, after what happened in guantanamo with torture, with the abduction of innocents, and that bridge can only be that we ask the us administration to align its policy in the future on democratic foundations. when we talk about a moratorium on the death penalty, as we have done in the past weeks, and as we will do in the future, we are not only doing so to save potential victims in iran from such a death, but we are also expecting the american people to agree to a moratorium on the death penalty. when we talk about fighting terrorism, we also expect that the basic values will be redefined together and that parliamentary scrutiny will be extended in the national parliaments, but also in the european parliament. we cannot accept what we have experienced as a genuine fight against terrorism, because we are restricting the fundamental freedoms of europe and of individuals and societies. an appeal to both sides on afghanistan and kosovo: we need this change of strategy in afghanistan not just on the lips but in practice. operation enduring freedom has no legal basis and must be changed. but we europeans must also raise more money to enable peaceful development in afghanistan in the fields of the fight against drugs, education and support for democratic citizens in afghanistan - and especially women - in general. this also applies to kosovo. we cannot wait for the americans to untie this knot for us. i would like to ask the european union and the foreign ministers to grant kosovo independence now to avoid another war. as far as iran is concerned, it is time to say goodbye to the regime change that bush still wants. it's the only way to prevent the next war through negotiation. i hope the eu has a clear position on this!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to address a few aspects of the idea of the transatlantic market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's not a healthy foundation. we need a healthy realism. i would therefore like to express my warm congratulations to the german presidency for having taken up the idea of the transatlantic market. the european parliament has said so in many resolutions and has worked intensively with the american side for many years - and, of course, with many council presidencies and the commission. i would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to this. we need this healthy realism in the future. we need a model, a regulatory environment in which both sides cooperate more closely economically, cooperate and look to the future, but where it is not about coherence, but about the two economic areas as well as the societies developing in their own autonomy. there will be arguments in the future, that's all part of it. we are not a single economic area, but we differ in many areas. but we need this healthy pragmatism, and i hope that the future council presidencies and the commission will work hard to develop it in the various areas. and you can also see that this is not just about the economy. this model has been supported in many dialogues, from consumer protection to trade unions. it has a broad social base. i would urge that the members of parliament be involved in cooperation in a sensible way, otherwise you cannot develop such a future-oriented model. the concern expressed by some members that this could harm the developing countries is, in my view, unfounded. this is bullshit. on the contrary, we will help the developing countries through cooperation, we will not divide them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am speaking today in particular on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. this is about the financial markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am therefore speaking, as a practitioner, on a project of european-american economic cooperation which we welcome and support. there are some conditions and experiences, particularly in the area of legislation. i would like to mention basel ii and afas. i would also like to say to the council, mr gloser, that we must ensure that the rights of parliament, the rights of europe, are respected in order to establish the rules on an equal footing with the americans. we had the situation at basel ii where the americans decided not to implement this package. it is a question of regulation. where is the regulation applied? the key word is sarbanes-oxley. we have asked the commission on several occasions what the consequences of the newest stock exchange joining euronext will be. is the american regulation coming? the commission has said that this is a matter for the capital market. the bawag case is a recent example of american regulation entering directly into the european market to regulate it independently of european requirements. the commission must take a clear position on this and ask how they envisage this. the council is of course also concerned, mr gloser. the keyword is swift. here too, american regulation has blurred the european guidelines. i call on the commission to do something about hedge funds! the americans are going into this area. we have national discussions. it is a global issue, it is being pushed forward, the commission is silent on it. the commissioner responsible regularly says: 'this is the market!' the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left out of the decisionmaking process. i say this particularly with regard to the council. i would like to stress, on the basis of the comitology discussions and the anti-democratic behaviour of the foreign offices in europe, that in future parliament should be involved in such projects in good time and not be presented with a fait accompli!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president-in-office of the council, i refer once again specifically to your announcement that the call for the extension of the 'visa waiver programme' to all eu citizens will be the subject of the summit. this is a very important announcement, because if it is done, all eu citizens will be able to experience the practical effects of european policy here, and the division between our citizens on this issue can be overcome. on security policy, we europeans can take great pride in the fact that the political approach we have discussed - the combination of diplomacy, pressure and offers to iran - is now the common policy between the european union and the united states, and that it is this approach that has united the world community. other approaches would have divided the world community. but if there is a common policy, then of course a question arises with regard to the missile defence programme, which has been mentioned many times. if we are convinced that this joint approach will be successful, then before we debate the question of deployment and who will be involved in it, we must clarify the following: if it is possible to negotiate peacefully with iran to get it to give up its nuclear weapons, why is a decision on the stationing of nuclear weapons necessary now? i have not heard anything from any of the participants in this security policy discussion to clarify this question. i would be very happy if this question were also on the agenda.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on behalf of the german presidency of the council, i would like to thank you, and in particular mr swoboda, for the balanced draft resolution of the european parliament on the latest commission progress report on croatia. i think - and you said so in your remarks - that the draft is as clear as the commission's own progress report. the commission is also taking the initiative of setting out a clear political position, particularly on the state of play in meeting the political copenhagen criteria. that's very good. the european parliament plays an important role in the enlargement process. the active and critical support of the european parliament clearly contributes to the transparency of this enlargement process, but also to its better integration into the european population. we know that there are occasional criticisms, for example, about the speed. it is important that the european parliament should accompany this process. i am glad to see that parliament and the council share a broad view in this area. this remains of enormous importance for the continuation of the enlargement process in the sense of the european council conclusions. the joint parliamentary committee between the european parliament and the croatian sabor plays a prominent role in this process. this is another way of conveying things in dialogue. croatia continues to make good progress on its eu path, with accession negotiations moving forward. but of course, progress in the negotiations will continue to be guided by how quickly croatia meets the requirements of the screening process and the negotiations. as the commission's progress report of 8 november 2006 notes, despite all the progress made, there is still much work to be done in croatia. it should further accelerate its efforts in certain areas. this applies - mr swoboda, you have mentioned this - in particular to the reform of the judiciary and public administration, the fight against corruption and the massive push for economic reform. let me briefly touch on some of the areas. we note that while some progress has been made in judicial reform, there are still some problems to be overcome. it should be emphasized again that: the establishment of an independent, impartial, reliable, transparent and efficient judiciary is of paramount importance. it is also an essential prerequisite for strengthening the rule of law and the proper application of the common acquis. progress in this area is important for assessing croatia's readiness for eventual eu membership. the same is true of corruption, which remains a serious problem. we also urge greater efforts to prevent, detect and effectively prosecute corruption. a professional, accountable, transparent and independent public administration is the essential foundation for the successful application of the acquis. it is also of the utmost importance to all citizens and, ultimately, to the investors who need it. we have seen this in previous accessions. croatia should therefore continue its efforts to develop good neighbourly relations. we therefore urge that more work be done to find definitive solutions to all outstanding bilateral issues with neighbouring countries, in particular border issues. these must be mutually acceptable. as regards the economic criteria, we welcome the fact that the consensus on the main elements of economic policy as a whole has been maintained. positive indicators such as low inflation, exchange rate stability and accelerating growth were also observed. the eu has a long-term strategy for the development of the economy, with a view to achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. however, this is conditional on the implementation of its reform programmes and the removal of remaining weaknesses. in this context, we called on croatia to accelerate the pace of structural reforms, including corporate restructuring. finally, we note with satisfaction that croatia has improved its ability to implement the acquis. progress has been made in most areas, but further determined efforts are needed in the area of approximation of legislation and overall administrative capacity. in many areas, even the short-term priorities of the accession partnership have not yet been achieved. we therefore very much welcome the recent adoption by croatia of the national programme for the integration of croatia into the european union. this is an updated response by croatia to the recommendations in the accession partnership. we look forward to the implementation of the programme. in conclusion, i would like to thank you once again for your cooperation on enlargement. the european parliament, by adopting a prudent attitude, is making a lasting contribution to a sound enlargement policy. i look forward to continuing this cooperation in the future. there are still some projects we have to solve together.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission welcomes the report by mr swoboda on croatia. the report is balanced and addresses the main challenges that croatia will face on the path to eu membership, particularly in the political field. i am sure that the adoption by the european parliament of a resolution on this report will make a significant contribution to the process of enlargement to croatia. the accession negotiations with croatia have started well. the analytical review process was successfully concluded in october 2006. it gave an overall overview of the current degree of alignment with the acquis, as well as issues requiring further efforts. the pace at which croatia progresses towards membership will depend largely on its ability to meet all the necessary criteria. this is not an easy task. croatia must align its legislation with the many regulations of the european union and ensure that they are implemented and complied with. it must also continue its efforts in the context of political and economic criteria. six of the 33 negotiating chapters have been opened so far. for two of them, negotiations were provisionally closed. the objectives have been set for nine chapters and will have to be met before the opening of negotiations in areas such as competition policy, public procurement and the free movement of capital. the european union and croatia are preparing their negotiating position in many other chapters. we hope to be able to open negotiations on other chapters during the german presidency. overall, croatia has a solid basis for further progress. however, there is still work to be done, particularly with regard to the political and economic criteria, where difficulties remain. we believe in particular that it is urgent for croatia to continue its efforts and achieve concrete results in the reform of the judiciary, public administration and the fight against corruption. croatia has started to implement its strategy of judicial reform and the first results are appearing. that's a good point. but the croatian judicial system has serious shortcomings and needs to be improved, as mr swoboda rightly points out in his report. the legal backlog is significant. the procedures are far too slow and care should be taken to ensure the proper execution of judicial decisions and to strengthen the independence and professionalism of judges. the government must also present its plan for the rationalization of the judicial organization. the conduct of war crimes trials also needs to be improved. corruption remains a worrying problem. some measures have been taken in the anti-corruption programme, but their implementation is only just beginning. the programme needs to be implemented in its entirety, and strong political will is needed to step up efforts. the many weaknesses that remain in public administration do not help to facilitate the fight against corruption. croatia needs to accelerate the reform process in this area as a matter of urgency. croatia is moving in the right direction in terms of minority rights. but it still faces several particular challenges in the future, as regards the return of refugees. some issues remain unresolved, including the allocation of housing to refugees who had occupancy and rental rights before leaving croatia. the report rightly highlights croatia's positive influence in the region, particularly as chair of the south east european cooperation process. it stressed, however, the need to continue to encourage croatia in its efforts to achieve good neighbourly relations, in particular by intensifying work to resolve outstanding bilateral issues, particularly those relating to the delimitation of borders. as regards the economic criteria, satisfactory progress has been made overall. croatia can be considered to have a functioning market economy. however, it is in its interest to continue to move towards an open and competitive economy, so that it can meet the competitive pressures of the european union in good time. it has to pursue economic reforms and take some difficult decisions, notably on industrial restructuring, particularly in the steel and shipbuilding sectors. the progress of the negotiations depends on croatia. only the future will tell when it is ready for membership. the commission's position is not to set a target date for accession until accession negotiations are in the final stages. croatia still has a long way to go and the progress of the negotiations will depend on its ability to meet the requirements of accession. the commission will continue to do its utmost to help croatia achieve this objective.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not if there were such a thing as historical justice, the european people of croatia would have been among the founders of the european union. communism and yugoslavism prevented that. if there were such a thing as historical justice, croatia would have been admitted to the european union at least three years ago in the historical-cultural context with hungary, slovenia, the czech republic and others with whom it has always formed a unity. this was prevented because for years it was occupied to one third by a neighboring state. today croatia is finally on its way to the european union, and we should do our part to achieve historic justice by enabling it to join the eu in this decade. it is the only european country which can and should achieve this goal. that doesn't mean we don't see the critical points. i thank you for the good cooperation with mr swoboda. these are the critical points that need to be addressed. we must do everything possible, commissioner, to ensure that no artificial obstacles are erected in front of croatia, which have not been imposed on other candidate countries. we must be clear that croatia cannot be allowed to react to the frustration of enlargement caused by the previous enlargement. croatia cannot be lumped in with the rest of south-eastern europe or turkey. it is a country which, despite certain shortcomings, is undoubtedly already much further along in its preparations for accession than some member states. we must therefore do our homework and enable the european union to accept croatia quickly. i would like to make it clear that croatia, with its state of preparation for accession and its population of four and a half million, is undoubtedly not overstretching the european union's capacity for integration, but on the contrary will be an important stabilizing pillar in a difficult region and will strengthen the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank mr swoboda very much for his report, which sets out both the shortcomings and the progress made by croatia on its way to the eu. we must identify and monitor the critical points in meeting the accession criteria, not only in administrative and economic reform, the fight against corruption and judicial reform, but in all areas of legislation and implementation. some examples: democracy is also a reworking of the past. we therefore have submitted a request for a thorough and impartial investigation into the largely unpunished war crimes against humanity. it is reported that various ngos and other activists have been monitored and intimidated. a vibrant civil society and the active participation of ngos in political life are essential to a pluralistic and democratic society and must be firmly established before accession. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment. however, i would like to make it clear that the country is on the right track to join the eu in the near future, as it is facing the political, environmental and economic challenges of the copenhagen criteria. if we encourage croatia to do its job quickly and to develop the rule of law, democracy and human rights, we should also implement our reforms with diligence and determination so that we can do it together by 2009.
chairman of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i refer to what mr graham watson has just said. i would like to make the following statement on behalf of my group: mr. geremek, i'm addressing you personally. we do not share many of your political views - you know that - but on one point you can count on the socialist group in this house, namely on the unreserved solidarity of our group - i believe the whole house - when it comes to preventing a government in the european union from persecuting men who, like few others in their country, have fought for the liberation and democratic development of poland. it's a shame that this great country is ruled by such a government! (parliament adopted the resolution) mr watson said what was necessary. i expect the president of this house to say to the kaczyński government tomorrow: we expect the polish government to protect the member of the european parliament, bronisław geremek! we shall in future measure everything that concerns poland by how this colleague is treated! i expect mr pöttering to present this in this clarity tomorrow! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is a great pleasure to welcome the president of the republic of india, mr abdul kalam, to the european parliament today. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. mr president, even before your election, you were well known as the architect of india's space and nuclear programmes and enjoy international recognition as one of india's most eminent scientists. you've devoted most of your life to science and technology. they have always held that developing countries should not be left behind when it comes to reaping the benefits of advanced technology, because technology, if used properly, creates growth and can help improve the daily lives of the poor. we can certainly share your approach and are therefore pleased that india is participating in eu-funded research programmes and working with the european union on galileo, for example. apart from the key role you have played in promoting science and technology, we were also impressed by your election as president of the republic of india in 2002, which you achieved with an overwhelming majority across party lines. for you, mr. president, as a tamil and a muslim in a country where the hindus are the majority, this was no small success. it demonstrates your great ability to bring together people of all backgrounds, cultures and religions. india is a country of many peoples and religions, and as the world's largest democracy, it can encourage new and young democracies. relations between the european union and india have existed since the early 1960s: india was one of the first countries to establish diplomatic relations with what was then the european economic community. our contacts and cooperation at parliamentary level are also the positive result of a long-term process. the first meeting between the european parliament and the lok sabha was held in 1981. parliamentary contacts between the european parliament and india have been institutionalized for some years in the form of the european parliament's delegation for relations with the countries of south asia and the south asian association for regional cooperation (saarc). in recent years, both the european union and india have undergone fundamental changes. i am very pleased to inform you today that just last month the european parliament set up a separate ep delegation for relations with india, separate from the saarc delegation. this is in response to the growing importance of your country india to the european union. we would very much welcome, mr president, if in return a delegation for relations with the european parliament could be set up in the lok sabha to make the most of these strengthened relations and to facilitate interparliamentary contacts. mr president, you have been invited by my esteemed predecessor, mr josep borell fontelles, who is here today, and it has been a great pleasure to extend this invitation to you again. the relations between india and the european union are not only of the greatest economic importance, but also of the greatest political importance. the dialogue of cultures is therefore of the greatest importance. it is therefore a great pleasure to invite you, mr president, to take the floor to address the members of the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the republic of india. friends, my greetings to all of you. i would particularly like to greet mr hans-gert pöttering, mr harald rømer, mr klaus welle and mr ciril stokelj. good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. i am delighted to be with the honourable members of the european parliament on the occasion of the golden jubilee year of the european union. i was wondering what thoughts i could share with you. as you are aware, as a democratic nation india has experience in providing leadership to over one billion people with multi-language, multicultural and multi-religious systems. i wish to share this experience with you, friends. european civilisation has a unique place in human history. its people were valiantly engaged in the adventure of exploring the planet earth, resulting in the discovery of many ideas and systems. europe has seen the birth of pioneers in science, leading to the development of technologies. europe was the theatre of conflicts among the nations lasting hundreds of years, including the two world wars. now, with this backdrop and these dynamics, you have established the european union with a vision of peace and prosperity for the entire region. the european union has become an example for connectivity among nations, probably with no possibility of war, leading to lasting regional peace. before i started out on my journey to europe, i was thinking: why are europe and india unique and natural partners? do we share a common history and heritage and, possibly in the future, a common destiny? this was the question. i was astonished by what i found: the depth and vitality of our inter-connectedness, through language, culture, ancient beliefs, ideologies and the movement of people, have stood the test of time. this has matured into a very strong bond through sustained trade and intellectually satisfying collaboration in many areas of science and technology. for example, on 23 april 2007, the italian scientific satellite agile was launched by the indian polar satellite launch vehicle rocket system into a very precise orbit. scientists from india and europe are very excited. let us congratulate them. india is a country that has learnt over the years to evolve and maintain a unique unity amid diversity. similarly, the european union’s greatest contribution has been to demonstrate to the world that it is possible to build a strong union of nations without compromising national identities. it has become an inspirational model and an example to emulate for every region in the world. the european union and india support a social form of economic development and we encourage a model of growth with equity. both are conscious of the need for growth to respect the environment and to make it sustainable for future generations. with india’s and the european union’s centuries of valuable experience, we can develop a doctrine of global cooperation based on the foundation of regional collaboration and core competencies of our nations. the european union and india radiate a message to the world that regional cooperation and interregional collaboration will lead to a win-win situation for all, so that we can have a politically and socio-economically emergent civilisation. our contribution will be successful if, before the 21st century is over, we are able to make all regions transform into happy unions leading to the emergence of a world of unions. in this context, i am reminded of the dream of an indian poet who said 3000 years ago in the tamil classic: ,which means, ‘i am a world citizen. every citizen is my own kith and kin’. he said that 3000 years ago. against this backdrop, i have brought from india a message to launch three important indo-european tasks that could contribute to global peace and prosperity. i propose these missions on the basis of india’s experience and the european union’s dynamics. the first task is the evolution of an enlightened society, in which citizens have a system of values, leading to a prosperous and peaceful world. the second idea is creating energy independence. normally people talk about energy security. i am talking about energy independence: a three-dimensional approach to energy choice that aims to achieve a clean world. the third aim is a world knowledge platform to bring together the core skills of the european union and india in certain areas in order to provide solutions to critical issues like water, healthcare and capacity-building. when nations join together to build a cohesive society, it is necessary to ensure that the benefits of development encompass all sections of society. worldwide poverty, illiteracy, unemployment and deprivation are driving forward the forces of anger and violence. these forces are linked to some earlier real or perceived historical enmities, tyrannies, injustice, inequalities, ethnic issues and religious fundamentalism that are flowing into an outburst of extremism worldwide. both india and the european union have witnessed and are witnessing the unsavoury acts of certain misguided sections of society. together we must address the root causes of such phenomena in order to find lasting ways to promote peace. how do we do that? we need a carrier of eternal goodness and wholesomeness in human conduct, which is called ‘righteousness’. as we say in india: ‘where there is righteousness in the heartthere is beauty in the character. when there is beauty in the character,there is harmony in the home. when there is harmony in the home,there is order in the nation. when there is order in the nation,there is peace in the world.’ (applause) honourable members, this is true for the whole world. when we need peace in the world, we need order in the nation. we need harmony in the home. whether in europe, india or in any part of the world the origin is righteousness in the heart. how do we instil righteousness in the heart of every citizen of the world? this is my area of specialisation and i would like to talk to you about it. first, i wish to discuss the evolution of an enlightened society. with this spirit of righteousness in the heart, i would like to present to this important gathering a methodology for developing a happy, prosperous and peaceful society in our world, which i call ‘evolution of enlightened society’. i have shared these thoughts with many intellectuals in national and international circles. we need to create an enlightened society with three components: 1) education with a value system; 2) religion transforming into spirituality; and 3) economic development for societal transformation. beginning with the first component, we have seen that the seeds of peace in the world have their origin in the righteousness in the heart of every individual. such righteous citizens lead to the emergence of an enlightened society. education with a value system has to be designed so that the righteousness in the heart is developed in young minds. that should be the mission of education. the prime learning environment is five to seventeen years of age. that reminds me of what an ancient greek teacher said a few thousand years ago: ‘give me a child for seven years; afterwards, let god or the devil take the child. they cannot change my child’. this shows the power of great teachers and what they can inculcate in young minds. parents and teachers must instil moral leadership in children. it requires the ability to have insight into the uniqueness and universality of human consciousness. true education is the acquisition of enlightened feelings and enlightened powers to understand daily events and to understand the permanent truth linking man to his environment, human and planetary. i remember the lectures given when i was a student a long time ago – nearly 57 years ago – at the jesuit institution of st joseph’s college in tiruchirappalli in southern india by the college’s highest authority, the reverend father rector kalathil. every monday, the reverend father would take an hour-long class. he used to talk about good human beings present and past and about what makes a good human being. in this class, he used to give lectures on people such as buddha, confucius, st augustine, caliph omar, mahatma gandhi, einstein, and abraham lincoln and to tell moral stories related to our civilisational heritage. in the moral science class, father kalathil used to highlight the best aspect of how these great people had evolved as good human beings through parental care, teaching and the companionship of great books. even though these lessons were given to me in 1950 during my college days, they inspire me even today. it is essential that in schools and colleges in every nation, important teachers at the institution give hour-long weekly lectures on civilisational heritage and the derived value system. this may be called a moral science class and will teach young minds to love their country and other human beings and to elevate them to higher planes. i have suggested this methodology to education experts in my country. the european union may like to consider developing a system that would enable a student to learn these fundamental lessons for the benefit of all. let me turn to the issue of transforming religion into spiritual force. many in the world believe it is a difficult task, but i disagree. i would like to share an experience that convinced me that it is possible for religion to be transformed into a spiritual force. how do we do that? as you all know, religion has two components: theology and spirituality. even though theology is unique to every religion, the spiritual component spreads the value to be absorbed by human beings in order to promote a good life and the welfare of society in the pursuit of material life. i witnessed the coming together of religion and science in a major task. in the early 1960s, the founder of the indian space research programme, professor vikram sarabhai, and his team had located the most technically suitable place for space research after considering many alternatives. the town of thumba in kerala in southern india was selected for space research as it was near the magnetic equator. this made it ideally suited to ionospheric and electrojet research in the upper atmosphere. i was fortunate to work with professor vikram sarabhai for about eight years. the major challenge for vikram sarabhai was to locate the site in a specific area. as was usual, professor sarabhai approached the kerala government administrators first. after seeing the land and the sea coast, he was told that thousands of fishermen lived there and that the place had an ancient church, the st mary magdalene church, a bishop’s house and a school. it would be very difficult, therefore, to allocate this land and the administration was willing to provide land in an alternative area. similarly, the political authorities also believed that it would be a difficult situation owing to the existence of important institutions and concern for people who were to be relocated. however, the professor was very determined. it was suggested that he should approach the only person who could advise and help. that was the bishop, father peter bernard pereira. professor sarabhai, approached the bishop one saturday evening. i still remember their meeting, which proved to be historic. many of us witnessed the event. father pereira exclaimed, ‘oh vikram, you are asking for my children’s home, the fishermen’s home, my home, the bishop’s house, and god’s home, the church. how is it possible?’. both had a special quality: they could smile even in difficult situations. father pereira asked professor sarabhai to come to church on sunday morning at 9 a.m. and he turned up on sunday with his team. prayers were taking place with a reading from the bible by father pereira. after the prayer was over, the bishop invited professor sarabhai to come to the dais. the reverend father introduced him to the congregation. ‘dear children’, said the bishop, ‘here is a scientist, professor vikram sarabhai. what does science do? all of us, including this church, experience the light from electricity. i am able to talk to you through the microphone because of technology. doctors treat patience thanks to medical science. science through technology enhances the comfort and quality of human life. what do i do as a preacher? i pray for you people, for your wellbeing and for your peace. in short, vikram and i are doing the same: both science and spirituality seek the almighty’s blessings for human prosperity in body and mind. professor sarabhai says that he will build within a year alternative facilities near the coast. now, dear children, can we give our homes, my home and god’s home for a great scientific mission?’ he asked the question. there total silence, as there is now. then the entire congregation got up and said ‘amen’, which made the whole church reverberate. that was the church where we had our design centre and where we started rocket assembly, and the bishop’s house was where the scientists worked. later, the thumba equatorial rocket launching station led to the establishment of the vikram sarabhai space centre and the space activities led to the emergence of multiple space centres throughout the country. this church has become an important centre of learning, where thousands of people learn about the dynamic history of india’s space programme and the great minds of a scientist and a spiritual leader. of course, the people of thumba received well-equipped facilities, a place of worship and an educational centre elsewhere as promised. when i think of this event, i can see how enlightened spiritual and scientific leaders can come together to give reverence to human life. of course, the birth of terls and the vssc gave the country the ability to launch vehicles, spacecraft and space applications that have accelerated social and economic development in india to unprecedented levels. professor vikram sarabhai and father peter bernard pereira are no longer with us, but those who are responsible for creation and making flowers blossom will themselves be a different kind of flower, as described in the bhagwat gita. it says, ‘see the flower, how generously it distributes perfume, honey. it gives to all, gives freely of its love. when its work is done, it falls away quietly. try to be like the flower, unassuming despite all its qualities’. what a beautiful message to humanity on the purpose of life, reflecting the spiritual component. can we bridge the spiritual component of the religions to bring peace to nations and to the world? i was asked to talk about cultural dialogue and would like to recall an incident that commonly occurs in many parts of my country. i witnessed this event as a young boy of 10. in our house, periodically, i used to see three unique people meet: pakshi lakshmana shastrigal, who was the head priest of the famous rameshwaram temple, a vedic scholar, reverend father bodal, who built the first church on rameshwaram island, and my father who was an imam in the mosque. all three used to sit and discuss the island’s problems and find solutions. in addition, they built several religious connectivities with compassion. these connectivities quietly spread to others on the island like the fragrance from the flowers. this sight always comes to my mind whenever i discuss with people the dialogue of religions. india has had this advantage of integration of minds for thousands of years. throughout the world, the need to have a frank dialogue among cultures, religions and civilisations has been felt now more than ever. these two instances give me confidence that religions can be bridged through spiritual components. whenever i meet the young and experienced in my country, i narrate these two experiences. many in my country and the world over may have such experiences. we have to spread such ‘glad tidings’ to every part of the world. now let us discuss the third important component of enlightened society, which is to achieve economic development for societal transformation. let me take india as an example; it may be true to many parts of the world, including the european union. the indian economy is in an ascent phase. there is considerable growth in the manufacturing and service sectors. we have a mission of spreading this economic growth throughout the country, including the rural sector. nearly 220 million people out of a billion people must have their quality of life raised in both rural and urban areas. even though gdp growth indicates our economic growth, people’s participation is essential to achieving the required targets. it is essential to ensure that citizens are empowered with good quality of life encompassing nutritious food, good habitat, clean environment, affordable healthcare, quality education and productive employment, integrated with our value system drawn from civilisational heritage leading to the comprehensive development of the nation that will bring smiles to one billion people. these are indicators for the growth of the national prosperity index. to achieve that growth rate, we have identified five areas where india has a core competence for integrated action: 1) agriculture and food processing; 2) education and healthcare; 3) information and communication technology; 4) infrastructure development, including pura (providing urban amenities in rural areas); and 5) self-reliance in critical technologies. we propose to realise the vision of transforming india into a developed nation before 2020 by energising and igniting the minds of the 540 million youth of the nation below 25 years of age. so far we have discussed the three-dimensional approach of providing value-based education, religion transforming india’s spiritual force and economic development for societal transformation leading to the evolution of an enlightened society. this integrated three-dimensional methodology for the evolution of enlightened society will pave the way for peaceful, prosperous, happy nations and, thereby, for a world free from extremisms and further seeds of extremism. on my website www.presidentofindia.nic.in, i have stated how an empowered world body is essential to evolve the nations of enlightened citizens. i will be very happy to exchange thoughts, ideas and action related to this mission with the honourable members after they have seen my website. let me now discuss the second mission, ‘leading to energy independence’. when we analyse the critical problems facing the planet today, two important issues come to our minds. firstly, the continuous depletion of fossil-material-derived oil, gas and coal reserves, as predicted by the world energy forum, of which you are all aware. the second is the continuous degradation of the environment, primarily due to extensive use of fossil materials to generate energy. the solution to these problems can be found through energy independence, which i have presented to my country. it may be applicable to many nations. what form of energy independence do i propose in india? india has 17% of the world’s population, but only about 0.8% of the world’s known oil and natural gas resources. based on the progress visualised for the nation during the next two decades, its power-generating capacity has to increase to 400 000 mw by the year 2030 from the present capacity of 130 000 mw. this takes into consideration the energy economies planned and the design and production of energy-efficient equipment and systems. i have proposed various systems. solar cell efficiency, common to the european union and india, has to increase from the present level of 20% to 55% through intensified research on carbon-nanotube-based solar cells. regarding thorium reactors, thorium is a non-fissile material. it has to be converted into a fissile material using fast breeder technology. in the biofuels area, the challenge is biofuel plantation for higher yield, esterification technologies for higher output and changes to automobile power plants. these three research areas need intensive cooperation between the european union and india. i would suggest setting up an india-eu renewable energy development programme for advanced r&d in all forms of renewable energy, leading to the availability of commercial-class large-scale power plants within the next decade. (applause) i should like to conclude with the ‘world knowledge platform’. with india’s experience of two successful international cooperative ventures from concept to realisation and marketing, i would suggest developing the ‘world knowledge platform’ to bring together the core competences of the nations of the eu and india in science and technology, leading to the development of unique systems for global applications. the ‘world knowledge platform’ will enable joint design, development, cost-effective production and marketing of the knowledge products, systems and services in various domains based on the core competence of partner nations in the international market. the ‘world knowledge platform’ is a meeting place for science, technology, industry, management and marketing. you may ask about the missions of the ‘world knowledge platform’. the convergence of biotechnology, nanotechnology and it is expected to touch every area of concern to humanity. the ‘world knowledge platform’ will take up missions in some of the areas discussed further, which are of the utmost importance to all of us and to making our world a safe, sustainable, peaceful and prosperous place to live. the first is water: desalination of sea water using solar energy, channelisation, networking of rivers and cost-effective safe drinking water. the second is healthcare: diagnosis, drug delivery system, development and production of vaccines for hiv, tb, malaria and cardiac diseases. the third is agriculture and food processing: increased production of food grain in an environment of reduced land, reduced water and reduced manpower; preservation of food; food processing; cost effective storage and distribution. the fourth is knowledge products: hardware, software and networking and storage products, including handheld micro and nano electronic devices. the fifth is transportation systems: fossil-fuel-free transportation systems using renewable energies, safety systems, hardware and embedded software integration. the sixth is habitat: an energy-efficient, water-efficient, pollution-free habitat. the seventh is disaster prediction and management: earthquake forecasting, assessing in advance the quantum of rain for particular cloud conditions. finally, capacity-building: quality human resource development for all the above areas, including the development of personnel with world-class skills. the european union represents a wealth of scientific potential with a rich culture for research. india has emerged as a leading country, with its demonstrated scientific and technological potential in many societal missions, and is now on the ascent. the combined strength of the nations can be utilised for the advantage of both india and the eu by joining together as partners in creating the ‘world knowledge platform’. in conclusion, as we have seen, there is a visible common thread to our dreams and problems. when i am with you, i have a feeling that there are beautiful solutions from beautiful minds. beautiful minds generate creativity. this is the common heritage of both india and the european union. i have presented three missions: ‘the evolution of an enlightened society’, ‘leading to energy independence’ and ‘creating the ‘world knowledge platform’. these indo-eu missions will reinforce further our strategic partnership and become the foundation for making changes to the life of 1.5 billion people, ultimately leading to the confluence of civilisations. to meet the challenges of these missions, we can draw inspiration from the saying of maharishi patanjali from about 2 500 years ago. he said: ‘when you are inspired by some great purpose, some extraordinary project, all your thoughts break their bounds. your mind transcends limitations, your consciousness expands in every direction, and you find yourself in a new, great and wonderful world. dormant forces, faculties and talents come alive, and you discover yourself to be a greater person by far than you ever dreamt yourself to be.’ i have great admiration for the european union. in this context i have composed a poem which i should like to share with you. (applause)the title of the poem is ‘the message from mother india to the european union’. ‘beautiful environment leads to beautiful minds. beautiful environment leads to beautiful minds. beautiful minds generate freshness and creativity,created the explorers of land and sea,created the european union,created the explorers of land and sea,create minds that innovate,create great scientific minds everywhere. why? go back to the many discoveries. discover the continent. do you realise you have discovered a continent? discover the continent and unknown lands. venture into unexplored parts. create new highways. in the minds of the best,in the minds of the best was to us also born, generated seeds of the battle and hatred,hundreds of years of war and blood. millions of my wonderful children lost in the land and sea. tears flooded many nations,many engulfed in an ocean of sadness. then came the vision of the european union. took the vote never to turn human knowledge against ourselves or others. united in their thinking, action emanated to make europe prosperous,and peace bound the european union. those glad tidings captivated the people of the planet of my galaxy. those glad tidings captivated the people of the planet of my galaxy. oh, european union let your mission spread everywhere like the air we breathe. that is my poem. (applause)finally, friends, let me convey the greetings of the one billion people of my country to all the honourable members of the european parliament and, through you, to all the citizens of european union countries. may god bless you all. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
president kalam, on behalf of the european parliament, i thank you for that important and inspiring speech. that was one of the most extraordinary speeches we have ever heard. (applause) delivered by a statesman, scientist and poet, it was unique. thank you. i believe what is most important is that we listen to each other, in order to understand each other better and to respect and cooperate with one another. that was your message. i wish you and your great nation all the best, and convey my best wishes too in respect of our cooperation between the great nation of india and the european union. (sustained applause)
mr president, i simply want to stress that i myself, and members of some of the other political groups, used their democratic right to table amendments in due time. i wish to underline that all of the amendments in block one reflect the votes in committee and are in line with an agreement reached in a technical trialogue with the rapporteur, who then decided not to continue with that trialogue. we did not exceed our powers in relation to any of those items and i would propose that we proceed to the vote. i always respect the democratic procedures applicable here. (applause)
mr president, i believe that amendment no 66 is not included in the compromise motion and i would be grateful if we could vote on it in addition.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that was a very brief presentation of the problem. the other group and i believe that we can better protect passengers on inland waterways by means of a separate regulation, because the current rules on which we are voting apply to maritime transport. i would like to point out that we are not doing any less for the safety of passengers when we put our requests forward and hopefully get a majority for them.
in writing. water is a force of nature when it comes to us as floodwater. our health, the environment, infrastructure and property are all at risk. water knows no boundaries. it is important that the eu, with this proposal for a 'directive on the assessment and management of flood risks', promote more cross-border cooperation. the basis for cooperation must be the existing plans and records of the member states. these maps and plans should be based on the best available data, procedures and technologies in the field of flood risk management. i am glad that there is agreement on the last remaining questions. the new directive can therefore be implemented quickly. flooding is a constant risk for people living in river valleys. to some extent, you can equip your property to withstand floods. for my neighboring village on the mosel, the construction of a flood-control dam was like a salvation. preventive measures involving all citizens are much better and more effective. the european parliament has spoken in its report of the principle of solidarity. this applies in villages when floods come. everyone helps everyone, and with remarkable commitment, the volunteer fire department is on the move. this principle of solidarity must be extended and supported beyond the villages concerned, beyond the borders.
in writing. the majority in the european parliament has been duped by an alliance of social democrats, the eu commission and the german government into giving the green light to the legally vague regulation of novel therapies. this is a sell-out of values. it is shameful that the members of parliament are taking away the clear prohibition on the commercialisation of the human body, the interference with the germ line and the production of human-animal mixtures. the federal government has massively influenced the vote by intensive lobbying. as the incumbent presidency of the council, the federal government has contributed to the demolition of the european values still emphasized in the berlin declaration and to their degeneration into lip service. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the suspicion has grown that representatives of the german government want to abolish the german stem cell legislation via the european union. the european commission's exceptional rule, which is now supported in principle by the european parliament, is not legally binding. the european parliament has today backed away from the existing european consensus of the eu charter of fundamental rights and the legislation in the biopatrent directive and is opening the door to the commercialisation of humans. it is to be hoped that other eu member states in the council will have the courage to stop the bioethical slide that has begun today and to signal a turnaround.
in writing. i agree with the report, even on the condition that not all the motions from the legal affairs committee will be considered and not all of them will be positively assessed. the ethical question is sufficiently settled in the alternative. the regulation, which almost exclusively concerns products that are ethically uncontroversial, needs to enter into force in order to ensure patient protection and safety in europe. i am opposed to the commercialisation of the human body or its components.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not if you want to form an opinion on ukraine's path to democracy, you should look at moscow and kiev at the same time these days. this comparison shows that there are light years between moscow and kiev in respect of democracy, and that despite the turmoil and confusion, democratic conditions in kiev are much more stable than one could have hoped three or four years ago. because, as all colleagues have said, europe must have such a great interest in a stable democratic development in ukraine, i do not want to be neutral at this point in what president yushchenko has decided. i think his political justification for re-election is correct. if a political force such as the party of regions says that it wants to gather 300 votes in the ukrainian parliament in its camp, then the president can say with all the rightness: whoever wants this should seek this majority in elections. i believe that these elections are necessary, that yushchenko was right about the political escalation and that this is also in the interest of europe. but when it comes to these new elections, all parties must respect the result of the elections and do much more to ensure that the constitutional reforms that have been announced for so long and put on hold for so long finally take place. another sentence to my polish colleagues, because warsaw is ukraine's most important advocate in the eu. warsaw is indeed very continental, very european in its approach to ukraine. i would like my polish colleagues - with whom i share many views - to promote these european approaches, this continental thinking, this european orientation in other conflicts, so that we can once again work together to develop a good ostpolitik, in ukraine as well as in other countries of the east.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if a president of a state dissolves a parliament, he must of course do so in accordance with the rules of the constitution of the state concerned. just as president yushchenko did under article 90 of the ukrainian constitution, which clearly and unambiguously states the conditions under which a parliament can be dissolved - and that is his good right - so too does the parliament have the right to call the constitutional court and say: 'we disagree. this article shall not be applied in accordance with the text of the constitution. in a democratic society, however, there is a separation of powers which ensures that the judiciary ultimately decides how the text is to be interpreted. first of all, this is not a political interpretation, but a legal one. it is also the right of every member to make a moral assessment of whether it is good or not for members to change sides. i would like to point out that here in the european parliament too, new groups have been formed, members have left one group and joined another. this is a normal procedure in many countries of the european union. there is no mandatory mandate in ukraine! and as long as there is no mandatory mandate, the members of parliament can be held morally responsible, but not legally. mrs harms, you are right, there is a very big difference between moscow and kiev. please remember: the late boris yeltsin, as russian president, had parliament shot down because it did not comply with his wishes! this doesn't happen in ukraine! the democratic forces in ukraine will prevent this, and that is a good thing. i am sometimes disturbed by the fact that the rival parties are being put into boxes too quickly - we sometimes do the same - under the motto: president yushchenko is the partner for the european union, prime minister yanukovych is the representative of russia's interests and protege. of course, they're both of different nationalities. one is ukrainian, the other is russian. but they are both citizens of ukraine and they both represent the interests of this country. it is perfectly normal for the ideas of how to implement them to differ. this is exactly the case in each of the member states of the european union. so i think we need to do four things: first, we must ask for the constitutional court's decision to be made within a foreseeable period. secondly, we should think about it and talk about whether we should send a delegation to ukraine. thirdly, it would also be possible to invite all the groups of the verkhovna rada to debate with them. fourthly, we could invite the opposing protagonists to come here on the same day and then have a joint debate. we do not want mr yanukovych to come one day, mrs tymoshenko the next and mr yushchenko the third, but we want it to be a joint debate. (the president cut the speaker off)
the debate is closed.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on homophobia in europe. i have received a request from the uen group, pursuant to rule 167, to reject the debate on this point on grounds of inadmissibility. i call mr szymański to state the reasons for this request.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european people's party has a very clear position on the question of anti-discrimination and is clearly committed to the decisions of this house, which we have expressed in various resolutions and also in various legal acts. when we discussed the remarks of the polish minister in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of the european parliament, we asked the legal service of our house to give us an assessment of how these remarks should be assessed and whether they are compatible with european law or not. the legal service replied that it could not comment on this because there was no legal basis, as the uen group member has made clear. the european people's party wants this issue to be taken seriously, and that is why we have asked that our agency, which we have recently set up for this purpose, be given the task of monitoring and focusing on developments in this area. i would like to make it clear that the european people's party supports these decisions. but we do not think there is any need to involve the european parliament again. that is why we are in favour of removing this item from the agenda.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe is a team! this is the motto of the german presidency of the council of the european union. europe is a team. what does that mean? what does that mean? it meant that we in europe had to re-emphasise the positive aspects of diversity, respect, recognition and tolerance. diversity, respect, respect and tolerance are the core values on which we build our common europe. at first glance, acceptance and tolerance of same-sex orientation seems more widespread today than ever. the work of the associations in particular makes a significant contribution to this. lesbian and gay movements are becoming more organized and encourage their members to be open about their sexual orientation. after centuries of systematic discrimination, this is a welcome development. i speak for germany. we have a special historical responsibility. 60 years ago, homosexuals were also victims of the nazi extermination machine. a second glance reveals that homophobia is still very much alive in many parts of europe. recent events show this in a shameful way. homosexuals are still subject to prejudice, intolerance and officially sanctioned discrimination. and hate speech and violent acts against sexual minorities are still commonplace, often without criminal consequences. i can here fully endorse the words of hans winkler, who, as the representative of the austrian presidency of the council, said in this house less than a year ago: 'wherever the security and dignity of a single woman or man within the european union is threatened, the security and dignity of all of us are at risk, and with it the credibility of the european union, its principles and institutions. other that is still true today! (applause from the centre) discrimination against homosexuals is a problem that we must confront with all the means at our disposal. the fight against homophobia requires a long breath. the continuous work is about, step by step, tearing down the walls of prejudice and intolerance in the minds, and creating new structures based on acceptance, equality and respect. while mentalities cannot change overnight, official attitudes and laws can and must change when it comes to protecting basic human rights. we have already made great strides in europe in this area. the european union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. in particular, the ec treaty, article 13, but also the eu charter of fundamental rights, article 21, explicitly prohibit any form of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. in addition, as members of the council of europe, eu member states have committed themselves to the european convention on human rights. since the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam in 1997, the european union has had the power to tackle discrimination on a wide range of grounds, including discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. since then, with the adoption of the equality directives, the european union has created a wide range of rules to combat discrimination throughout the european union. for example, in the employment context, discrimination on grounds of religious belief, disability or sexual orientation is prohibited by an eu directive. although we have already made considerable progress in adapting the legal situation to protect against discrimination and promote equal opportunities at eu level, this is no reason to sit back. the most sophisticated legislation cannot be effective unless the political will to implement it in a sustainable way is strong enough and the whole population is involved. (applause from the centre) the european commission is called upon to do this. its task is to check that directives such as the one mentioned here are being implemented in time and correctly by the member states. in this area, the newly established eu agency for fundamental rights will also provide additional support in the future, once it is fully operational. but i must also stress that the european commission is not alone in this responsibility. as political leaders at eu, national and regional level, we too can and must set a good example by promoting tolerance, understanding, mutual respect and peaceful coexistence. the european commission's monitoring in the candidate and potential candidate countries should also be closely monitored. the accession negotiations and the stabilisation and association process must meet all the conditions, including and especially the human rights of sexual minorities. finally, we are called upon to influence mentalities so that the walls of prejudice and intolerance can be broken down. i am pleased that, on the joint initiative of the european commission and the german presidency of the council, the first european gender summit was held in berlin on 30 and 31 january this year. the summit marked the beginning of the european year of equal opportunities for all. this european year of equal opportunities is a unique opportunity to work towards a more inclusive society and to mobilise all those involved in order to drive forward the new eu framework strategy on non-discrimination and equal opportunities beyond 2007. the programme aims to raise public awareness of the right to equality and to combat discrimination and to spread the message that all people are entitled to equal treatment, regardless of gender, race, ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. let us use this opportunity to work together to fight intolerance and discrimination and to promote the positive aspects of diversity, respect, appreciation and tolerance. only together can we make the european union proud to be 'united in diversity'. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start by recalling that in its statements on homophobia of 17 january 2006 and on the rise of racially and homophobically motivated violence in europe of 14 june 2006, the commission has already strongly condemned all manifestations of homophobia which constitute an attack on human dignity. the commission wishes to solemnly reiterate its commitment to the principle of respect for fundamental rights on which the european union is founded. within its powers, the commission will use all the means at its disposal to combat homophobia. it is necessary to combat discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, which is explicitly prohibited by article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights, and article 13 of the treaty allows appropriate measures to be taken at european level to combat discrimination on grounds of sex. in 2000, the council adopted a directive on the general framework for combating discrimination in employment and occupation based on a number of grounds, including sexual orientation, on the basis of article 13. the commission shall monitor the proper implementation of the directive in all member states, including poland. it will not hesitate to initiate the necessary proceedings against the member states concerned if the directives are not properly applied. the commission recalls that in 2005 it launched a study on the national legislation in force concerning the prohibition of all forms of discrimination, including discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, outside the field of employment and occupation. the study shows that all the member states concerned go further, and often much further, than community legislation in some areas. however, there are significant differences between member states as regards the scope of protection. the commission also announced that in its annual policy strategy for 2008, it would propose new initiatives aimed at preventing discrimination outside the labour market, including discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. in this context, the commission launched an impact assessment in february 2007 to determine whether additional eu action beyond employment and occupations is warranted. at the same time, the commission shall organise a wide consultation of the general public and stakeholders such as non-governmental organisations and social partners. the results of the impact assessment are expected at the end of 2007. the commission is aware that legal protection alone is not sufficient to ensure the effective protection of the persons concerned. it is equally important to fight prejudice and stereotypes. the european year of equal opportunities for all, 2007, has the following objectives: to inform citizens of their rights, to promote diversity as an asset, to promote equal opportunities for all in economic, social, cultural or political life. the european commission welcomes the national strategies developed by the member states in the context of the implementation of the european year. all countries, including poland, have taken into account all grounds for discrimination in their strategies. the commission has taken note of a statement by a member of the polish government announcing his intention to table a bill prohibiting the promotion of homosexuality in schools and all other youth or leisure facilities. according to the information available to the commission, this draft law has not yet been prepared and the declarations made to the polish government are not binding. this law, if enacted, could be in conflict with the fundamental rights enshrined in the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it could be contrary to the principle of non-discrimination applied in the field of employment and occupation, and thus contrary to directive 2078/ec. the commission will closely monitor further developments and will not hesitate to intervene if there is an infringement of community law.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to make it clear - perhaps a little more calmly than before - that we, the european people's party, fully support the resolutions of the european parliament and the directives adopted here and presented by the commission. europe is a space of law which we must defend. however, the reason for today's debate, namely the statement of this polish minister, which is unacceptable and is rejected by the european people's party, is not a reason for such a debate. we have already seen, when we discussed the issue of discrimination against homosexuals a few weeks ago, as commissioner špidla pointed out, that there are, unfortunately, unacceptable statements by politicians in europe, and we must fight them politically. i would like to say that we should be thinking very carefully when polish colleagues from all the political groups - i am thinking in particular of the debate in the liberal group - have declared that what has happened in poland is unacceptable, but that the debate must be held in poland itself and that poland itself will have to deal with the unacceptable statements made there. it was said that poland did not need a big brother to talk it into doing so, but wanted to sort it out themselves. that should give us something to think about. we are not doing those who, in our view, are fighting against discrimination in poland any favors by making this a big issue. i would like to ask the commissioner to explain why he has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. no to discrimination, no to homophobia in europe! hence our suggestion that our agency continue to monitor the situation and take a look at it. the european people's party will act accordingly tomorrow.
there was a point of order.
the debate was closed by the tabling of four motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 5.50 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
the president of the council. i am not sure that a directive can prevent everything, but the discussions between the presidency and the european parliament are about finding ways of reducing the risk to a minimum. i repeat: we will certainly have to strike a balance between the so-called freedom of information on the one hand and the protection of children and young people on the other. of course, children must be protected. we shall see what the talks achieve in the next few days.
the president of the council. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. the european council decision of 15 and 16 december 2005 to grant the status of candidate country to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is a recognition of the country's reform results. the european council stressed that further steps towards eu approximation would be considered subject to the fulfilment of the conditions and requirements set out in the conclusions. the commission will report on these developments in its progress reports. at its meeting on 11 and 12 december last year, after examining developments in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on the basis of the commission's progress reports, the council regretted the slowdown in the pace of reforms in 2006. the european council of 14 and 15 december last year reaffirmed that the progress of individual countries on their way to the european union depends on their respective efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria and the conditions of the stabilisation and association process. as regards the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, he called on the country to step up the pace of reform in the key areas and to implement the priorities set out in the european partnership in order to make further progress in the accession process. the country's government faces major challenges, particularly in police and judicial reform and the fight against corruption. as i emphasized in march in reply to a question by mr ryszard czarnecki, the open questions should now be dealt with quickly. the pace of the accession process will thus depend primarily on the efforts and achievements of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia itself. the next commission progress report will provide information on this. the union will continue to actively support the country in achieving this objective.
three brief comments on this excellent reply. firstly, i would like to ask you what is the situation with regard to the implementation of the ohrid agreement, in particular the municipal reform. are you satisfied with the developments inside? secondly, how do you assess the announcement by the future slovenian presidency of the council that it will work towards a date? thirdly, is there any sign of relaxation in the delicate question of names?
the president of the council. i have tried to make it clear - that was the intention of the last-before-last council of foreign ministers - that we want to get an impression once again, this time from the united nations special representative, but also from information from the african union special representative. i'm happy to admit that this is really an open wound. i would ask you to take this special envoy's request seriously and to try to assess whether certain movements that have taken place in the last few days might lead to a solution, so that a mixed mission is possible. but i repeat, this is not a project where we wait week after week and see no results. the european union should take appropriate steps if this process, which mr eliasson wants and which we also want, is not set in motion.
the president of the council. the soldiers from europe have a very narrowly defined task. the european union is not the only one to have a role to play in this. that is why we made it clear again last monday that the funds for the maintenance of this mission are running out and that the european union will of course have to continue to provide financial support for the african operation beyond that deadline. the presidency has also explicitly suggested that consideration should be given to the extent to which member states can give money bilaterally to support this action of the african union in sudan, in darfur, if funds at european level are not sufficient.
the president of the council. i am not sure that the commissioner has a clear idea of what is going on. as already stated in the reply to question 619/2007, the council is aware of the extrajudicial executions in the philippines. the european union regularly expresses its deep concern at these incidents and urges the authorities to address the problem swiftly, including by allowing independent investigations to bring the perpetrators to justice and to take preventive measures. as stated in the above-mentioned reply, the eu stands ready to assist the philippines in the development of its justice system. the eu is fully aware that ending extrajudicial executions in the philippines requires not only technical expertise but also the decisive political will of the highest leadership. the eu will continue to urge this will. we hope that the proper investigation and prosecution of these crimes will also have a preventive effect. the eu member states and the commission are preparing for a short-term exploratory mission to manila in april to assess the need for technical assistance. this is in response to a request from foreign minister romulo, who has asked for support to implement the recommendations of the melo commission, which is responsible for investigating the unsolved murders.
is the council aware of the following extrajudicial executions: cipriano ligaspo, murdered on 14 march; carlito getrosa, murdered on the 11th of march; che che gandinao, killed on 10 march; felisa timog ocampo and renato atong torrecampo pacaide, who were murdered on 2 march? my question is whether sanctions are actually being considered. you just said that the philippine government should be supported at its own request. the problem is that the government is involved. is this the right approach?
the president of the council. i know that there have been many deplorable extrajudicial executions. i do not know the names of the individuals involved, but i think it would be helpful to investigate. i believe that in the process between the eu and the philippines, it is necessary to achieve the political address that certainly has an impact on certain developments. it is also right and important that the european union should take appropriate measures to support and hopefully help to clarify cases when deficiencies in the judicial system are identified even from within the country.
the president of the council. the council has no evidence that the government of sri lanka was involved in this incident. nor can any conclusions be drawn as to the consequences of this incident for relations between the eu and the sri lankan government. the council is deeply concerned about the developments in sri lanka. the european union urges both sides to put an immediate end to the violence and to return to the negotiating table without delay, so that a viable solution to the conflict can be found on the basis of constructive proposals. despite the obvious difficulties, the european union, in its role as one of the co-chairs of the tokyo conference of donors, continues to examine all possibilities of providing support to the peace process in sri lanka.
you have just said that the council is deeply concerned, but my question is very specific: what does the council intend to do to ensure that action is taken in sri lanka to halt the military offensive against the liberation tigers of tamil eelam - which has already caused a great deal of civilian casualties - and to force them to return to the negotiating table? the second question is: is the council aware that weapons from eu member states are also being used in this conflict?
the president of the council. i don't know anything about that last point. but we shall look into the question of whether there is any information on this. the council has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in sri lanka is not further aggravated by the recent events. we have repeatedly called on the parties to the conflict to respect the 2002 ceasefire agreement and to respect human rights. the european union has also tabled its own draft resolution on the human rights situation in sri lanka at the geneva human rights council. the draft resolution expresses the eu's concern at the recent escalation of violence in sri lanka and calls for an immediate end to the violence and the related violations of human rights and fundamental humanitarian rights. i hope this leads to the next step. we will review the question you have raised and send you information.
at the beginning of the current escalation of the conflict in sri lanka, there was a debate here in the house on the extent to which it made sense for the eu to put the ltte on the eu terrorist list. how do you assess today the move to put the ltte on the terrorist list, after the conflict has escalated enormously? did that make sense in hindsight? was that particularly sensible at that time? a second question: norway plays a very positive role in this conflict, particularly at the negotiating level, and it has been stated by norway through diplomatic channels that the eu's role is somewhat one-sided and pro-government. what do you think of that?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank mr deprez very warmly for his excellent work on this and other subjects. we have taken a step forward with this project. solidarity between member states is strengthened and responsibility is shared. we cannot allow countries like spain, malta or italy to be left alone with this problem. we also have to look at the green line. there is also a large-scale immigration. it is also crucial for us as socialists that all the positions on human rights are not just on paper, that there is no discrimination and that we as parliament control how this is then implemented in practice. what happens to the people who are sent back? will they be handed back to these partially corrupt governments? we have seen the disaster in morocco, when those who were sent back were simply transported to the sahara, where they would have preferred to be left to die of thirst without water! we must also take these considerations into account. i warn you not to think of frontex and the swat team as a panacea. you are a tool, but not the solution to the problem! we need a common migration policy, not just a common deportation policy! what we need is not a new protective wall for europe, not an iron curtain in the atlantic or the mediterranean, but we must confront the problem in principle. and to do that, we also need to push forward the solutions to the problems in the countries. i 'll tell you what . if climate change continues to worsen, if the governments in the source countries become even more corrupt and remain corrupt, then we will have to expect more inflow. we would not do otherwise, we would seek our happiness elsewhere, instead of starving or dying miserably! i would like to congratulate you once again on the report. i'm glad we made it. we as a parliament must then also control the way things are done.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already done so. i am glad that we are talking about the economic and monetary area of the european union at this late hour. this own-initiative report is the first time that parliament has commented on the revision of the stability and growth pact, which was adopted by the heads of state or government in march 2005. the revision covered both the preventive and the corrective aspects of the pact. the aim of this pact was and is to avoid an excessive deficit and to achieve a balanced budget and sound public finances in the medium and long term. this report is a one-year review. the period of experience is therefore very short, in fact too short, and it falls in a year, 2006, which was marked by a very favourable economic situation. this favourable development has had a positive effect on the fiscal policies of the member states. it is clear that an assessment based solely on this short period cannot be definitive. the real stress test for the revised pact is in the years ahead. the report is an assessment of the present situation. the rapporteur, mr kurt joachim lauk, who unfortunately cannot be here today, has deliberately avoided naming the individual member states by their individual achievements. the report was not intended to give grades, which would not have been helpful in the rapporteur's view. it seems appropriate to make an overall assessment of what has been achieved so far. the economic and monetary committee has dealt with this report in detail and the exchange of views has been very constructive and fruitful. on behalf of mr lauk, i should like to thank in particular the socialist shadow rapporteur, mr rosati, and the liberal shadow rapporteur, mrs in veld, for their good and constructive cooperation. the report was adopted by an overwhelming majority in the committee. i would like to make a few brief comments on the main points. the statistical surveys underline that the gap between deficit and growth is too wide and that there is a correlation between high deficit and low growth. the 2006 figures show that 21 out of 25 member states with a low deficit or a slight surplus are at the same time experiencing high growth. this fact supports the view that deficit reduction promotes activity and economic performance and thus reduces unemployment. in this context, the report has highlighted three key points. firstly, the economic committee's report makes a strong plea for taking advantage of the economic good times to bring about the structural recovery of public budgets. the member states must use the economic recovery, in particular as a result of improved tax revenues, to reduce their debt. we must always remember that stimulating growth leads to higher demand and higher employment. the critical issue is that the favourable cyclical environment is not being used sufficiently by the member states to consolidate their budgets. secondly, we call on the member states to declare new public debt unconstitutional or illegal by 2015, as certain states and regions in the european union have already done. the amendment to paragraph 20 tabled by the rapporteur, mr kurt joachim lauk, seeks to clarify this. he says: only the member states of the eurozone should be obliged to do so, not all 27 member states of the european union. this seems to make sense and i can ask you, on behalf of the rapporteur, to support this amendment tabled by the epp-ed group. thirdly, the report calls for the deficit calculations of the member states to be based on a comparable basis. this is an important point, because a common basis as regards the actual level of indebtedness is needed in the context of the growing cohesion of european economic and monetary union. let me make two final remarks in the last 20 seconds. the revised stability and growth pact worked well overall in 2006. it remains a regulatory framework. since its revision, all deficits exceeding 3% of gdp have been considered excessive. nevertheless, there is concern about the slow pace of public debt reduction in all member states. in the short term, the stability and growth pact has worked. whether it works in the long run remains to be seen. the real stress test comes in the next few years. we expect the member states to make the necessary efforts to do so.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we believe that this report is going in exactly the wrong direction! it gives the opportunity to promote a much-needed course correction. it contains no criticism of the ecb's policy of relying exclusively on price stability, which in turn slows down and strangles the eu's growth potential. the report recommends that budgetary policy-makers in the member states should only make savings to reduce deficits. no word on the disastrous tax competition in the european union with the further reduction of corporate taxes. in germany we are now experiencing a new round in this dumping race. it is clear that public finances in the member states would be much better off if the rich and wealthy, and especially the multinational companies which make huge profits, were finally properly asked to pay their bills, instead of having to continue to tax them. the report does not spare proposals for a neoliberal regulatory policy. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of public sector bodies in the education sector, and to increase the number of public sector bodies in the private sector. at any cost, another key area of the welfare state is to be sacrificed to the profit principle! the report also calls for member states to declare new public debt unconstitutional or illegal by 2015. if such a ban were to be enforced, it would strangle all budgetary policy. the report has given us the opportunity to promote a policy at european level which is oriented towards social justice and development based on solidarity! my group will therefore reject it.
member of the commission. mr president, madam member of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. informing and discussing issues with employees is an important part of the european social model's response to the challenges of globalisation, competition and technological change. this response includes change management, change prevention and social dialogue. i do not need to remind you of the importance which the commission attaches to the european works councils. they help us to reduce the imbalance caused by under-representation, i.e. by the fact that an increasing number of decisions are taken at transnational level, while the right to inform employees and to discuss problems is exercised primarily at national level. they allow the social partners in each country to be brought together, and facilitate a general understanding of the strategic problems of enterprises and the search for solutions. in particular, they enable change to be prevented and managed. in the age of globalisation, europe is facing a number of economic and social challenges. we are well aware that the restructuring of companies is a matter of concern for the employees concerned and for other citizens, and we are also well aware that there is only one sensible way of dealing with this phenomenon, namely a decisive, active and dynamic approach. the european union can contribute to the preparation and responsible management of restructuring changes, either through the structural funds, in particular the european social fund, through the political dialogue within the framework of the restructuring forum set up by the commission, or through the implementation of the community legal framework on information and consultation. the recent situation at vw also highlighted, among other things, the need to inform and consult employees in the decision-making process as soon as possible in order to prepare for the restructuring and to manage it in the interests of all of us. the european staff council shall be able to provide this function in the context of transnational operations. how can this be achieved? first, it is necessary to ensure that community law on information and consultation of employees is respected. however, i would like to stress that the implementation of community law is primarily the responsibility of the member states. the question of the revision of the directive on european works councils should also be raised. i know how sensitive this issue is. as you know, the commission started the process of reviewing the european works councils directive in 2004. in 2005, in the context of the restructuring and employment communication, the commission encouraged the european social partners to open negotiations on this topic. the social partners have included the promotion and evaluation of joint texts on european works councils and restructuring in their work programme for 2006-08. i look forward to the first results of this work. i know that the social partners have different views on the question of revising the directive on european works councils. all agree that there is a growing need for social dialogue at transnational level, and many also acknowledge that the role of the european works councils is often overlooked or underestimated. the question is whether improving their functioning must be based on a revision of the european legal framework or whether it would be sufficient to strengthen the exchange of good practice between the social partners. we welcome any proposals that will contribute to the development of the legal framework. this development appears necessary to ensure greater coherence and efficiency in informing and consulting employees, to reduce legal uncertainty in cases of large changes in the size of enterprises, and to clarify the scope and proportion of the process of informing and consulting employees at european and national level. it is clear that any commission initiative will take account of the activities undertaken by the social partners to promote the use of good practice, and will also take account of the requirements of the european economic and social committee. the commission will support the search for such a solution, based on partnership and combining economic, social and environmental aspects. this approach is also supported by the commission's 2005 restructuring and employment communication and the 2006 corporate social responsibility communication. the commission looks forward to the european parliament's resolution on this subject, which will play an important role in the commission's further action on this matter. the commission is ready to discuss in depth with parliament the issue of staff information and consultation. thank you, sir.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank commissioner špidla very much for his comments on the subject of information and consultation of employees. we all know how important employee participation rights are for peace of mind and a satisfied and motivated workforce. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. we in europe can be proud of our tradition of worker participation! the success of our economy depends not least on these rights. although consultation rights vary across eu member states - in my country, for example, worker participation extends to participation in the economic sphere - there is no doubt that information and consultation rights are part of what we call the european social model. the crowning achievement of legislation at eu level is the 1994 european works council directive. it seems to have worked well, because we also saw the need for it in the fact that some of the companies operating in different countries had already set up such works councils on a voluntary basis before the directive came into force. i also believe that it is now, in 2007, time to revise this directive. the 1994 directive had already set the year 1999 as the deadline for this. a lot has changed since the directive was adopted. the economic structures of enterprises have changed, globalisation has advanced, but the demands of workers and their representatives have also grown. as representatives of the citizens of europe, we are happy to contribute to adapting to the changing business and working world, because we all know: only a responsible and socially active entrepreneur will be successful in the future, and a well-informed and involved employee will contribute his workforce fully and with conviction to his company.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it seems that something bad has to happen before the commission takes a position on such an important issue as strengthening the rights of workers in the field of information and consultation. the airbus power8 restructuring programme and the associated threat of redundancies and plant sales have hit airbus employees in europe to the core. in the discussion with the works councils of the varel and nordenham sites concerned and at a recent meeting in brussels with trade union representatives from all over europe, the workers repeatedly argued that there had been a lack of information and consultation of airbus employees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is an untenable situation that workers are not fully informed and consulted when their company is restructured or when there are redundancies. the only way to remedy this unsustainable situation is to finally launch the long overdue revision of the ewc directive. i am not aware of any company in europe which has been in difficulty because of its works council. on the contrary, consultation and early information of employees could certainly save many businesses and jobs in europe and eliminate management errors. after 13 years, it is time to get this legislation fully under way to ensure social peace in europe!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. uncertainty is always a bad thing, especially when it comes to the future of jobs. the sword of damocles of redundancy has been hanging over thousands of airbus employees since january. this is an unbearable condition! you can't treat people like that! in my constituency, when power8 was launched, there was talk of 1,200 redundancies, then 700, then again only redundancies among temporary workers, and now there is talk of airbus even wanting to recruit again. you'll only get dizzy! the eads management's actions are, as we all know, no longer isolated cases. we've heard that a few times today. the fact that this is happening despite the european works council directive is simply scandalous and really shows the need for action! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are informed of the situation and are able to take action. above all, we must ensure that breaches are rigorously sanctioned throughout the eu and that employees and employee representatives are also represented on supervisory boards. i really hope, mr špidla, that the commission will now finally tackle the long overdue amendment of the directive. the eu's competitiveness and productivity are known to rise and fall with secure and good jobs!
member of the commission. mr president, i shall read the commission's statement on relations between the european union and switzerland and, although you and i share the same language, i shall do so in english. mr president, the commission is pleased that this item has been put on the agenda because it is now more than two years since we last discussed switzerland. it was in 2004, on the occasion of the conclusion of the 10 new bilateral agreements. let me start, therefore, with a general remark. the bilateral and multilateral relations that link the eu and switzerland are very good. switzerland is a highly valued partner for the eu in many areas. our bilateral relations are based on a solid foundation of around 20 important and over 100 smaller sector-specific agreements. these agreements range from free trade in goods and the free movement of persons to swiss participation in our research and schengen cooperation. any existing differences should not have an inordinate impact on our relations. in february, the commission adopted a state aid decision on swiss cantonal tax favours for certain types of companies, in particular holding companies. this decision has received much media attention in switzerland and has been dramatised, by some, into a major conflict. legally, the commission has no doubts that the cantonal tax schemes qualify as subsidies, because these tax regimes offer unfair tax advantages to companies established in switzerland for profits generated in the european union. income generated in switzerland is taxed higher than profits made in the eu. this unequal treatment is at the heart of the state aid problem. the rules in question are liable to distort competition and may affect trade between switzerland and the eu. all the criteria of article 23 of the 1972 agreement, the provision which declares such state aid incompatible with the proper functioning of the agreement, are therefore fulfilled. politically, too, it seems hard to accept that a neighbouring country that enjoys privileged access to our internal market and takes part in a large number of our programmes and other activities should grant such tax favours. the benefiting companies are often set up with the sole aim of avoiding the taxation of profits in our member states. i would point out that tax schemes of this kind or similar are not allowed within the eu, pursuant to the state aid rules set out in the ec treaty. in the past, the commission has adopted decisions against them. we are not against tax competition, which also takes place among the member states, but it must be fair. the commission wants to find a mutually acceptable solution. therefore, we also asked the council in february for a mandate to start negotiations with switzerland on this topic. the commission is also working on a new mandate for the european parliament to be given to the council. i am also counting very much on parliament's support in this matter. we proceed from the belief that we will find a solution for this problem, just as we have always found solutions for problems in our relations with switzerland in the past. on a different matter of importance, i would like to express the commission's expectation that switzerland will, hopefully, soon be ready to negotiate the inclusion of bulgaria and romania in the agreement on the free movement of persons. if switzerland were to exclude the citizens of two member states from this very important agreement, it would be unacceptable for legal, institutional and political reasons. bulgaria and romania should also receive a financial contribution from switzerland for the reduction of economic and social disparities, on the same terms as the other 10 new member states. in view of the swiss position on eu accession and the european economic area, there is currently no alternative to further strengthening of bilateral relations. with that in mind, the commission is prepared to look into the swiss proposal for the negotiation of a general framework agreement, provided that it brings added value to our relations, for example with regard to the updating of existing agreements in line with the evolving community acquis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the commissioner's statements today. i believe that they will also largely meet with the approval of my group. the european union's relations with switzerland have always been special, and the various agreements were mentioned by commissioner almunia. in this respect, the partnership with switzerland is characterised by particularly close cooperation, which has not yet resulted in swiss membership of the european union. but switzerland is an extremely important economic partner, and it is also a friend and a neighbor. i am particularly pleased about this because my constituency is in the immediate vicinity of switzerland. i would therefore appeal to all sides not to jeopardize these good neighbourly relations by obstinacy or excessive demands on the part of one side or the other. the tax dispute has already been raised. the swiss issue would certainly be the subject of a full debate here in parliament. but today we are dealing with the tax practices, as commissioner almunia has said. on this subject, i would like to say that we - unlike colleagues in the uk, for example, and contrary to the views expressed in switzerland - believe that this question is not about interfering with national taxation but rather about whether companies that are part of the internal market and are entitled to benefit from the benefits of the internal market are not receiving unjustified aid. it is about the principle of equal treatment and the abolition of hidden aid. in this respect, the commission's approach that improvements must be made on the swiss side is correct, even if it might have been better to start negotiations rather than proceedings. the statement that this is a cantonal competence is not, in my view, correct and has no effect because it is a question of hidden aid which must be abolished. the eu must make it clear that we respect switzerland's sovereignty in tax matters, but that the eu's basic principles, which also benefit swiss companies, must apply to all companies in the internal market. in conclusion, i would point out that we must find a solution to this problem that is mutually beneficial, in the interests of european businesses but also of citizens. i would ask the commission to do the same, and i would ask our swiss neighbours to do the same.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. the report, which puts the issue of women with disabilities at the centre of our work, is very important to us in the socialist group. there are a number of legal instruments, such as the un convention, the charter of fundamental rights, article 13 and the disabled women's manifesto, which we should listen to very carefully. in all of them it is clear that women are not victims, but women are at a disadvantage in many ways! this multiple discrimination must also be reflected in the european union's actions. we have made 2007 the european year of equal opportunities for all. but again, women are a marginal group, especially women with disabilities. commissioner almunia has made this clear: 80% of women with disabilities are also victims of violence, everyday violence. they experience violence several times in their lives, and sexual violence is especially frequent. the daphne programme must therefore put a stronger emphasis on combating this violence, and we must also strengthen the networks of women with disabilities. in the professional world, women have twice as much difficulty if they have a disability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. we must therefore take the best models from all european countries as a model and make much greater use of the esf and the erdf to promote model projects and to make member states accountable. we have included gender mainstreaming in the structural regulations, but we do not have the means to impose sanctions on member states that do not comply with it. this is a very important point: we must create much more pressure here! we want inclusive education. it is necessary for both sexes. it is a very important learning process for people without disabilities and for people with disabilities to prepare them for independent living, preferably in kindergarten. we must not be charitable, but we must give people and women their rights in a very concrete way and give them access without barriers, not only to buildings and public transport but also to the new media. i also hope that the gender institute can help bring together the organisations and best practice. we all - every one of us - could be disabled tomorrow. the individual must be strengthened and the uniqueness of each person must be appreciated. then we are truly united in diversity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. at the beginning of april, the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities came into force, a milestone for the rights of disabled people! it states that all 650 million disabled people worldwide have the same rights as people without disabilities. it covers civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights and thus provides effective legal protection. for the first time, disability is recognized as a human rights issue. it is regrettable - and i would like to see the commission's statement on this - that the eu commission has got cold feet and refused to sign the additional protocol which would have given individuals and organisations a right to appeal to the un committee of experts. when we speak here in parliament about disabled people, especially women and girls, we must always ask ourselves whether we should not rather talk about the disabling environment. when we look at this and all the other institutional buildings - including the european institutions - it is clear that we have a lot of work to do to really improve opportunities for people with disabilities. here in the house, for example, a disabled woman or girl could only get into the canteen by the freight elevator. it is very regrettable and we must also look at ourselves and see how we too unfortunately contribute to the fact that these people do not have adequate freedom of movement. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. but it's very important for these women and girls that we not only talk about their suffering, because these women are also self-confident women who, although they have a disability, of course, have the same right to participate in shaping society. it is particularly regrettable that girls and women with disabilities are much more likely to experience sexualised violence, whether by family members, carers or other staff. in particular, it is unfortunately very difficult for these women to be victims and not to have the same rights when it comes to getting married or starting a family. it is still the case that disabled girls and women are sterilized and forced to have abortions. there is a much higher rate of forced abortion, and because they are not given the same rights to sexuality or motherhood, their reproductive rights are also very limited. according to the united nations, only a quarter of women with disabilities are in employment. we must make real changes here at european level. we also know that women sometimes earn half as much as men with disabilities. we should ask the european union again for more precise figures. we already know that despite the principle of 'equal pay for equal work', there are stark differences between men and women when it comes to disabled women. this is very shocking. according to unesco estimates, only 3% of people with disabilities worldwide can read and write, and the rate for girls and women with disabilities is estimated at 1% worldwide. we need to make a much greater effort in the area of humanitarian aid, but we should also put the issue of educational opportunities and increased education - especially for girls with disabilities - back at the top of the agenda. the member states must do much more. it is therefore very important that we take this issue forward at european level and put it much more in the spotlight. but what is very important to me is that our resolution should not fall behind the un convention. so we really need to make it much clearer that these women, of course, don't want to be seen as just victims. they want to make it clear that although they have a disability, this disability must not lead to discrimination in the labour market and in the field of education. we must put even more emphasis on protecting these women from violence and set clear signs. i hope that with our resolution we will really take a step forward and not fall behind the un convention.
i am not going to go into detail. the conference of presidents has asked me to make a statement here, and i say explicitly: there will be no debate or debate on this. no oral submissions will be accepted for this purpose. the conference of presidents has asked me to present to you the text of a press statement made by the president of parliament yesterday and to make a further comment on that statement. the conference of presidents has adopted by a very large majority the contents of a press statement issued yesterday by the president of the european parliament on the question of the mandate of bronisław geremek. the text of my statement to the press yesterday is as follows: the european parliament has not yet received any communication from the polish authorities concerning the mandate of mr geremek: bronisław geremek is a highly respected political figure who has always stood up for democracy in his country and for european unity. we will examine all legal options to allow bronisław geremek to continue his work. (applause from the centre and the right) the text of my statement yesterday is as follows: according to our information, the polish constitutional court is also currently examining the law in question, which is the basis for the withdrawal of mr geremek's mandate. a decision of the court is expected in the next few weeks. i have asked the legal service of the european parliament to examine the exact legal situation. the conference of presidents will also be discussing this subject tomorrow. this, ladies and gentlemen, has just happened, and the conference of presidents expresses its sympathy and solidarity with mr bronisław geremek. (applause from the centre and the right)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. why i cannot vote in favour of the resolution on the human rights report: 1. the report fails to mention social, economic and cultural rights; neither does it call for these rights to be treated as an eu priority. while millions of people worldwide die of hunger, have neither housing nor work and live in deepest poverty, the eu report does not refer to these violations. it reduces human rights to civil liberties only, thereby disregarding the principle of indivisibility of human rights as set forth in the un charter;2. the report does not mention human rights violations committed or supported by eu member states. however, in order to avoid hypocrisy the eu needs to investigate and tackle human rights violations committed with the involvement or support of eu member states in third countries or against third-country nationals;3. the resolution calls for military intervention in sudan. this is wrong because the protection of human rights must be through civilian, not military, action. war remains the most severe human rights violation, yet it is not mentioned in the report. no reference is made to the killing of civilians by eu member state forces in afghanistan and iraq.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to explain here, with regard to my voting behaviour, that i did not vote against because i am in favour of discrimination against minorities. i too condemn the statement made by the polish minister. i voted against because i think there were more important issues that we should have dealt with this week, including in the form of a resolution, namely the murder of christians in turkey. we could have raised the issue of forced marriage of turkish women in europe, or the genocide by muslim cavalry in darfur, or the human rights violations in venezuela. that is why i voted against it, because i think we should have had more important matters to discuss today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a statement on behalf of the whole group of the european people's party. the epp-ed group abstained today because it does not agree with the procedure at the present time. the epp-ed group supports the european parliament's resolutions on homophobia, in particular the resolution of 16 january 2006. in this spirit, the epp-ed group expressly rejects all forms of homophobia and all other forms of discrimination. the european parliament has also expressed its full confidence in the institutions of the european union, in particular the commission as the guardian of the treaties. in view of the existing legal situation, the commission will, as far as the member states of the european union need to do so, take the necessary steps to put an end to these initiatives, which it rejects in every respect. the epp-ed group has also fully supported the involvement of the fundamental rights agency in the investigation of homophobia in europe and wants to await the results of this investigation and then take further steps. the epp-ed group fully trusts that polish society will respond appropriately to the emerging homophobic trends.
in writing. the epp-ed group abstained from voting on the resolution on homophobia in europe, as it does not agree with the procedure at the present time. the epp-ed is committed to the european parliament's resolutions on homophobia (in particular those of 16 january 2006). in this spirit, the epp-ed expressly rejects all forms of homophobia and discrimination of any kind. at the same time, the epp-ed has full confidence in the institutions of the european union, in particular the european commission as the 'guardian of the treaties'. in view of the existing legal situation (the anti-discrimination directive), the commission will, if the need arises in the member states of the european union, take the necessary steps to put an end to these initiatives, which are to be rejected in every respect. the epp-ed also fully supported the mandate given to the european agency for fundamental rights to investigate the situation of homophobia in europe and does not want to take any further steps until the results of the study are known. the epp-ed has the full confidence of polish society to counter in an appropriate way emerging homophobic trends.
i have to say, madam president, mr pafilis, four minutes ago you gave me the most cynical speech on zimbabwe that has been given here since 1999. you're actually walking over dead bodies and legitimizing a dictatorship. i would urge you to take up the moving appeal of bishop tutu, and i think it is unmistakable. you sometimes think that a country cannot go any further down the road when it has the lowest life expectancy in the world, when it has the world's highest inflation, when 80 percent of its people are unemployed, when as many people live below the absolute poverty line, and when its economy has shrunk by 40 percent in the last decade. unfortunately, it is precisely in such countries that the regime still has the strength to strike against the population, as it did on 11 march. many have been arrested and tortured. as members of parliament we are particularly appalled by the brutal treatment of our colleague nelson chamisa, who was brutally beaten by the regime's henchmen at harare airport on his way to brussels for the committee meeting of our joint parliamentary assembly, losing an eye in the process. i thank the council for its clear statement on the situation on 13 and 18 march and in the general council on 23 april, and for also extending the list of travel bans on leading supporters of the regime. the sadc has, after all, recognised that there is a crisis in zimbabwe and has appointed president mbeki as a mediator. we know that mugabe is feeling encouraged by the sadc meeting and the repression continues throughout the country without international attention. south africa has always played a key role. president mbeki must play a credible role as a mediator. we know how difficult it is to accept that a liberator can become a tyrant, but mbeki has it in his hands to go down in history as someone who ultimately helped break african human rights and democratic standards by standing up for the suffering people.
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament has dealt with russia several times this week, in the subcommittee on human rights with commissioner piebalgs at a joint meeting of the delegation for relations with russia, belarus and ukraine and now here in the plenary, because the problems are getting bigger. we have been appalled by the massive human rights violations in moscow and st petersburg, where peaceful demonstrations against the authoritarian nature of the system were violently suppressed by police and where innocent bystanders and western journalists were attacked. the intimidation and suppression of freedom of expression, assembly and press in russia has become systematic. the nature of disinformation and lies is known from the chechen war. many media outlets are under government control or self-censorship. independent journalists like anna politkovskaya have been murdered. russia is third after iraq and algeria with 13 journalists killed during putin's tenure alone - a shocking record! the political opposition has no voice. freedom of the press and freedom of expression are under immense threat. potential political opponents of putin, such as khodorkovsky and lebedev, are in prison without a fair trial, garry kasparov has been repeatedly arrested. ngos are being scolded by laws that curtail civil society rights. the russian leadership is using not only its courts, but now the entire security apparatus to intimidate political opponents. the kremlin is attacking. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. it is a perfidious strategy to brand people who are calling for genuine democracy in the country as extremists, in order to take away their credibility. putin is not a pure democrat! he's kgb, and his background shapes his handwriting. russia is a member of the council of europe, the osce and the united nations, but it violates basic human rights. the eu is negotiating a new partnership agreement. this agreement must include a human rights clause which is also part of all treaties. we stand in solidarity with our friends in russia who are working for a peaceful and democratic future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. russia is a country of culture. his achievements in the fields of literature, music, and the performing arts continue to command our respect and admiration. in this respect russia is a genuine member of the european family of nations. but russia also has its dark side. the measures taken by the russian government against human rights and fundamental freedoms are currently casting a very dark shadow. it is not worthy of a member of the united nations and the council of europe to act against its own citizens in the way that it did on 14 and 15 april in moscow and st petersburg. freedom of expression and of the press are the most important rights of a democratic state. the european peoples - including the russian - have paid for the rights with their blood. that is why it is a disgrace that the putin government, which claims to be a world power and proudly offers itself as a mediator in all international conflicts, is acting against its own people in such a cowardly and violent way. we cannot be treated as equal partners by such a government. freedom is always the freedom of the dissenting. that is the russian government's record.
i have to say, madam president, in 1991, i met not only the greatest estonian freedom fighter, tunne kelam, but also boris yeltsin, when he came here to strasbourg to announce a new russia. meanwhile, there's been a massive setback. russia is an authoritarian state with an increasingly aggressive foreign policy. i think it is necessary to point out with all clarity that the fish always starts to stink from the head. the use of omon militias against demonstrators and against foreign journalists such as german television correspondents would not have been possible without an explicit order from the kremlin. we must be clear that president putin bears sole responsibility for the repression of the weak approaches to democracy and freedom in russia. we need clear language here and we cannot just talk about derailment. putin is responsible, the russian leadership is responsible. it is a question of our credibility, because russia has signed the council of europe's declaration on human rights, and has subscribed to european principles, which we must insist on adhering to in a united and clear manner.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the un special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the philippines, philip alston, has made clear in his report to the un human rights council of 22 march what the extrajudicial executions in the philippines are about. the victims of extrajudicial executions include as stated in the joint resolution members of opposition parties, church members, trade union leaders, farmers, journalists, lawyers, human rights activists, etc., but also witnesses to other extrajudicial killings accused by government officials of being front organizations for illegal armed groups. the arroyo government bears a high degree of responsibility for over 800 political murders since it took office in 2001. in the so-called counterinsurgency, the philippine army and the philippine police also use political assassination. a chapter in the orders of battle report clearly states, based on documents from the armed forces of the philippines, that extrajudicial executions are part of the strategy of the army and police. the orders of battle, which are enforced by the armed forces of the philippines and often enforced by the philippine national police, are a military struggle against political opponents. the conservative group now obviously wants to remove from the joint resolution any reference to the role of the armed forces in these killings. this is nothing short of scandalous. this would not only be a slap in the face to the united nations and its special rapporteur, but also a slap in the face to the victims and their friends and relatives. the un special rapporteur's report further states: "newspapers carry almost daily reports of senior military officials urging that such groups be neutralized and calling upon the populace to recognize that to support their candidates in the upcoming elections would be to support the enemy". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. there's an election in the philippines in two weeks. the danger of internal conflicts escalating is growing. since 2006, the murders of journalists, human rights activists, lawyers, farmers and priests that my colleagues mentioned have been happening. it's unclear who the perpetrators are. but it's obvious that the murders follow the same pattern. the authorities are not able to investigate sufficiently thoroughly. the judiciary is overburdened, underfunded and ineffective. the number of convictions is so low that one can almost speak of a climate of impunity. president arroyo and the government are aware of the seriousness of the situation. a special police task force and the independent melo commission were set up. their recommendations led the president to order the strengthening of investigative and prosecutorial processes, the creation of special courts and, finally, witness protection programs. the un special rapporteur on torture, philip alston, was able to carry out extensive interviews with those responsible and those affected in february. i agree with his demand that the allegations that elements of the military or individuals of the military are involved be investigated. let us give the european union both technical and human support to help solve the murders and to make lasting improvements to the justice system.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i shall now turn to mr andria's report, and my colleague will refer to mr janowski's report later. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the members of the intergroup on urban development and housing for the courage they have shown in taking up the challenge of finding a balance between the principle of subsidiarity and a european vision. in an exemplary and cross-party cooperation, a process has been initiated which focuses on the central point of urban and regional development, namely the right to adequate and dignified housing. the provision of such housing to citizens in need as part of social housing promotion remains the responsibility of the member states or their local authorities and districts. but what reasons are there to oppose the idea of responding to similar problems and concerns across europe with european minimum social and housing standards - standards which ultimately have an impact on people's quality of life? this is the aim of this own-initiative report, which calls on the commission and the council to act. i have noted that, after initial resentment, we are pleased to see positive reactions from the committee of the regions, as well as from cooperatives and tenants' associations, who welcome european added value, advocate a joint declaration on housing with a strong emphasis on national responsibility and promote social housing in accordance with european standards and with the support of european funding instruments. i would therefore like to conclude by asking you, commissioner, to ensure that this is reflected in the operational programmes. unfortunately, i did not find any reference to sustainable urban development or the partnership principle in yesterday's press release on the signing of the german national strategic framework plan.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the role of innovation as presented in the janowski report is, in my view, not sufficiently focused on the really central problems. the role of innovation in cohesion policy cannot be overestimated - this is also stated in the report. we are still dealing with completely outdated concepts. these dominate the programmes, including the new programmes. one of the old concepts is the mistaken belief that the formation of large clusters in economic centres can also create cohesion for neighbouring disadvantaged regions. the opposite is true. the magnetic influence of large clusters exacerbates the inequality of development. innovation must also be achievable in small regions and small or medium-sized cities. a critical mass of size cannot be the goal. to really achieve innovation is to achieve as much innovation as possible everywhere, including in rural areas. innovation support must not be based solely on the model of the young successful businessman. women entrepreneurs need support just as much, and that support needs to be completely different. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. much more attention needs to be paid to equal opportunities in innovation. otherwise, valuable potential remains unused. i would like to remind the commission once again very clearly that it is in this context that it is examining programmes more critically and not just approving outdated concepts.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in all discussions on housing policy we should remain true to our principles of subsidiarity and proximity to the citizen. the eu's powers in this area are very limited under the treaty and we should not try to soften this by going through the back door. however, as regards the eligibility of housing under the erdf regulation for the 2007-2013 planning period, i would like to support this for the conversion of flats in the eastern european countries and eastern germany. a large proportion of the european population lives in large-scale industrial settlements, which were built between the 1960s and 1980s. with the enlargement of the eu to the east, a european strategy for the sustainable development of this type of housing is becoming particularly important. while in western european countries the future of large-scale housing is primarily in the design of social tasks, in eastern european countries the main task is the repair and modernization of the building stock to enable the rental of housing. at the same time, the structural change in the housing industry from state-regulated housing allocation institutions to private or cooperative enterprises operating on the market is just beginning. the urban development of large settlements in eastern european countries is primarily a technical and housing-related task. a new problem has arisen in germany, which will sooner or later reach other countries in view of the development of democracy throughout europe. the decline in population leads to housing vacancies, which are distributed over both old and new construction sites, urban centres and suburban areas. for example, in the eastern german states, a programme has been developed to encourage the demolition of permanently unclaimed housing and the upgrading of remaining stock, with the aim of adapting urban structures and housing stock to shrinking demand. in this sense, the future of large-scale settlements as a european policy area must become more important. in that sense!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, thank you very much for coming. first of all, i should like to congratulate mr janowski on the report he has presented here. it shows that there are ways of approaching the old fundamental question in a very creative way: do we need more eu funds in the area of regional structure and agricultural support, or do we need to go more into the area of innovation, research and technology? i think that this dispute has paralysed our budget, our eu, often enough, and you, mr janowski, together with our help, have shown in your own-initiative report the new trend we are talking about. the aim is to 'subscribe' the budget, so to speak. the point is that regional aid is still on the table, but the content is changing. this is a matter of urgency, and i am sure that the commissioner will be able to give us an answer. so this program has elements like jaspers, jeremia, jessica. these are things that are new and important to support innovation, which is about turning knowledge into products, into applications. we will be making ever greater use of the resources we have - the european investment bank, the european investment fund - to bring venture capital to people. i support that. we also see the demand for innovation clusters as very positive. there are some groundbreaking and very good examples. innovation does not happen centrally, it happens in the regions i know the example of the saxon city of dresden very well, where eu and regional aid attracted large-scale foreign direct investment and created an innovation cluster. in this context, i find the mention of the eit, the european institute of technology, in this report very positive. i am pleased that the commissioner is fully supportive of the idea of poland providing eur 1 billion for the eit. this is a direction that must be pursued. congratulations to all those involved!
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 10 may 2007.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on wednesday 16 may 2007, in accordance with rules 130 and 131, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: tuesday:the green group proposes that the final vote on the report by mrs aubert on organic production and labelling of organic products (a6-0061/2007) be postponed until the june part-session in strasbourg.
i assume that this reasoning was also the argument in favour of the motion, so that we now come to the counter-argument.
the epp-ed group and the socialist group ask that the debate on the council and commission statements on the situation in palestine not be concluded by the tabling of motions for resolutions.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the government has shown its economic opportunism and sacrificed european values in connection with a trade delegation to be led by the crown prince in june. neither the eu nor its member states can allow themselves to be denied the right to receive certain personalities by leaders who are so disrespectful of human rights as the chinese. the people of tibet are oppressed, thousands flee every year under the greatest dangers. the interference of chinese authorities in the affairs of an eu member state is unprecedented and must be condemned. we should clearly distance ourselves from the belgian approach and express our support for the initiative of the walloon members of parliament who are seeking to invite his holiness to belgium again. the dalai lama is welcome in europe!
mr horáček, i should like to inform you that i have written to the belgian prime minister asking for clarification on this matter. i would like to make a formal statement to the european parliament: if the president of the european parliament invites a person to a meeting, as the dalai lama did, and i wanted to meet him, to speak to him, and this is prevented by the refusal to issue a visa, then our rights as the european parliament are affected. we must not be prepared to accept this. i now await the answer from the belgian prime minister. but i think that we must assert our rights and thus the rights of others in this matter. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my colleague, milan horáček, has just rightly criticised the belgian government's acquiescence to the chinese. the dalai lama was forced to cancel his participation in the international tibet conference on 11 may. the commission has therefore decided to suspend the hearing with the european parliament's representatives from the tibet intergroup. the next day, on 12 may, i had the opportunity to meet the dalai lama in leipzig at a prize ceremony for peace, optimism and civil courage. i have expressed my indignation at the behaviour of the belgian government. mr president, i thank you very much for your intervention. our european parliament is recognised as the voice of human rights worldwide. we will not be deterred from this by any time, not even by economic pressure.
if those who apply for bicycles also ride them, then we can get closer to the idea. we'll discuss that.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. we in the european parliament have carefully removed health services from the services directive, because these special services require a special quality, a high level of health care, and they are designed in such a way that everyone, no matter where they live, no matter how big their wallet is, actually has access to these health services. this is the essence of what we have to do, and that is why we said: these are not commercial services. they must therefore be removed from the services directive. we were all the more surprised when the liberals and the conservatives in the committee agreed to include health services back in the services directive. this is absolutely wrong and i ask you to reconsider and withdraw this decision, because, as commissioner kyprianou rightly said, the point now is to give a correct answer to the questions about health services, in terms of the whole range of issues that need to be regulated. this is what we're looking at. so let's look forward and not back. let's see if we can really make health care services of a high standard. i call on the conservatives and the liberals to ensure that paragraph 71 is removed from this resolution, which is otherwise a very good resolution. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs bernadette vergnaud, on her report, because what is contained in it, in its broad outlines, is a positive and groundbreaking report which shows a way forward on how to deal with this. i am very pleased that both commissioner kyprianou, that is the commission, and the ministers in the council of ministers have expressed their readiness to go down this road. so let us go ahead and deal with these issues in a specific sectoral directive. we must not forget that the european parliament has a duty to protect the citizens of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would first like to commend the commission for involving parliament and all the players very early on in the new directive. i guess it wasn't always that obvious. i am therefore confident that the new directive is carefully planned and includes appropriate impact assessments, namely social and regulatory impact assessment and subsidiarity, on the one hand, and european citizens' rights, on the other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health care system in the member states is not affected by the new legislation, and that the health care system in the member states is not affected by the new legislation. it's been mentioned a few times. that is why i find it all the more absurd that the gue/ngl wants to consolidate the privileges of private insured persons. we all stand to benefit from a careful, cautious opening up of national systems. a constructive competitive environment for providers, a competition of the best practices, the most meaningful research and the most successful healthcare strategies can be useful. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced that this parliament will meet these criteria in any event.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that we are finally discussing the last basic legal act necessary for a comprehensive and proactive european water policy and also for the implementation of the water framework directive. prevention is better than cure. this is especially true in the area of our vital water. the water framework directive requires that the priority list of substances be regularly reviewed and adapted to the latest scientific knowledge. we are not therefore working on a static or ready-made list, but are engaged in a dynamic process which must make it possible to absorb new knowledge and new substances. fabrics are developed and they are used. the many examples given by my colleagues here prove this. we cannot always immediately grasp and consider all the effects of a substance. for example, when the birth control pill was introduced in the 1960's, it was a revolutionary success. it was only later that it was discovered that the hormonal substances in our water accumulate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. the rapporteur has here summarized in a compromise the substances which have been identified by her colleagues as dangerous or potentially dangerous. the commission is now being asked to consider what to do with these substances and to submit a proposal to parliament. this list is intended to be a mere list of substances to be tested. it is not a classification, it is not a preliminary assessment of individual substances, and it does not claim to be complete. a good european water policy must always take account of the latest knowledge and assessments if it is to act proactively.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am glad - although not in a crowded room - but rather in a family atmosphere that we have a good day today for the millions of women, children and young people who experience violence. we have adopted the daphne programme to prevent and combat violence and to protect victims for the period 2007-2013 as a separate part of the framework programme on fundamental rights and justice under the accelerated procedure. it was not the case from the beginning, and i thank commissioner frattini for taking up the european parliament's arguments and rejecting the original plan to set up daphne together with the anti-drug programme. through intensive negotiations, including with the council and the commission, it has succeeded in drawing up a clear programme and in giving a major steering element, daphne iii, to a larger eu with a growing phenomenon of violence. the european parliament had already reached political agreement with the finnish presidency of the council in november 2006. in the common position of march 2007, the council also largely adopted the amendments from the first reading, not always literally but in their spirit. i would remind you that for many women, the most dangerous place is their own home. abuse by husbands or partners, fathers or brothers is a daily occurrence for women in all member states. one in three to four women have experienced some form of physical or sexual violence. the psychic dimension is indecipherable. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the programme, and that the council should be consulted on the future of the programme. as a rapporteur who has been fighting for daphne for years, i am pleased that with the increased budget of now eur 116 million we will be reaching many more ngos. the committee on women's rights has called for greater transparency, the removal of bureaucratic obstacles and easier access, especially for smaller organisations. we have also managed to maintain the helpdesk service and to pool existing expertise in all member states and with partners beyond the eu's borders into a multidisciplinary think tank to better link with our policy work. i expect the newly established gender institute to continue to focus on this priority of combating violence. however, commissioner, there are two areas which need to be addressed immediately. you also promised us in the debate on the first reading of the daphne programme that you would seek a legal basis for the fight against violence. we are still in 2007 in the situation - and i find it intolerable - that daphne iii has to be based on article 152 on health. it would be appropriate to go a step further here. secondly, and this is stated in the council's supplementary declaration on the daphne programme, and commission president barroso has also promised us once again on 8 march, an initiative for a european year to combat violence against children, young people and women should be launched. the phenomena are very varied. after the experience we have already gained from the intensive implementation of daphne i and ii in all countries - the austrian right of expulsion has been implemented by many and has benefited from it - we will continue to fight to ensure that we benefit from the exchange of experience at european level, that we initiate national action plans and legislation and bring a little bit of hope to previously taboo areas, namely the taboo areas of the private battlefields. i therefore recommend that the house extend daphne iii without further amendments so that we can move quickly to an implementation to put an end to terror in private.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. we know that daphne is a very outstanding program. it is a small but successful programme of the european union. it has already made significant progress in combating violence against women and children. through daphne, europe is making clear the importance of combating violence against women. the daphne programme must also be a reminder and an incentive to put the fight against violence against women and girls at the centre of our attention. in the european union, one in three women and one in four children are victims of domestic violence, but the fight against violence is still not at the top of the political agenda. i would therefore have wished, commissioner frattini - i know you have spoken about this on many occasions here in parliament, and the rapporteur has also mentioned it - that we would find an independent legal basis and give greater priority to the fight against violence. i would have liked you to give us a timetable today and to make it clear when we can expect to have an independent policy in the european union, so that political support is followed by action. it is clear that violence against women must be stopped. daphne is just a drop in the bucket. we need a directive to combat violence. i hope we don't have to wait too long.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very warmly for her very dedicated work and for the good report she has produced. this report, like a number of others which we are currently considering in the committee on regional development, is one of the building blocks of the future structural and cohesion policy. the future is: we will review this in the 2009 mid-term review, but we will have to start in 2014 with a re-design of cohesion policy, which we have to prepare today. i am very grateful to mrs pleguezuelos aguilar for bringing three important points back into the debate and for making them more important. the challenge of the 21st century is undoubtedly the question of the competitive situation of the european union as a whole. as the rapporteur rightly says, the development of research and technology is an essential element, which must of course also be the basis for the development of the less developed regions in the field of cohesion policy. the question of territorial cooperation is a second point which we must put even more firmly at the centre of our policy, especially in a european union which now has 27 member states. the urban centres themselves and the question of how the urban centres deal with the rural regions is a challenge which we must tackle more intensively in the coming years. the third problem raised by mrs pleguezuelos aguilar - and i fully support her - is that we need to do much more than we have done for the regions affected by emigration and where young people are leaving because they no longer see opportunities there. the question of overall demographic development in all the member states of the european union is a completely new challenge for cohesion policy. the rapporteur is right to raise the problem of migration. let me make a personal comment at the end: dear paca! i am glad that you are here today to take part in the debate on your report. i speak on behalf of our whole group when i wish you all the strength and energy for the next few days and the next week, so that you can come back with good health and new energy to continue the work here.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too welcome the fact that there should be clear rules on the two pillars - the fisheries agreement with greenland on the one hand and the broader cooperation agreement on the other. i would like to make the following observations on behalf of the committee on budgets: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means, on the one hand - and i would like to encourage you very much, commissioner borg - that we are really checking very closely what each vessel is catching, and on the other hand that illegal fishing, which you have called for to be combated, is to be avoided at all costs. the committee on budgets is of the opinion that if these two facts are not present, no further money should be flowing. we must ensure that the european money is spent in the fisheries agreements in the spirit of the agreements, that is to say, without illegal fishing and without the protection of fish stocks, because without the protection of fish stocks there will be no jobs for fishermen in the future. that is why it is wise to combine economics and ecology here.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as the world's largest single market, the european union has a special weight in the world. to continue to succeed internationally, we must create the right conditions at home, but also set up our trade policy abroad in a way that is in line with our economic interests. the commission presented its vision for such a trade strategy in its october 2006 communication 'a competitive europe in a global world'. the present report by the committee on trade is not intended to be a counter-proposal but to adjust some of the priorities accordingly, because the commission and you, commissioner, must set the right priorities rather than seek short-term results. the opening up of the markets of our trading partners is a win-win for all. the european union is a very good example of open markets and their success. the best instrument currently available is the world trade organisation. despite all the difficulties in the current round of trade negotiations, the objective of multilateral trade liberalisation within the wto framework must be to make ambitious progress in this area. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conclusion of a bilateral agreement on trade in textile products with the community is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the subject. where free trade agreements are to be concluded, the following restrictions shall apply: on the one hand, the choice of free trade agreements must be limited to those countries or economic regions with which our competitors are negotiating or have already concluded agreements. on the other hand, the scope of these free trade agreements should go well beyond the wto. in addition, we should strive as the european union to incorporate standards into these free trade agreements, which are agreed plurilaterally on the broadest possible basis. i am thinking, for example, of rules of origin which are negotiated differently in each free trade agreement and which are hardly applicable to our small and mediumsized enterprises, which are increasingly taking advantage of the opportunities of globalisation and going into exports. unfortunately, in the past, other policy objectives have often been pursued at the expense of trade policy. we should not therefore burden trade policy with extraneous questions in future. we must also ensure that the existing rules, which we and our trading partners have agreed to, are respected. this is particularly true in the field of intellectual property, where many existing rights and obligations are not sufficiently applied or are even actively impeded. protection against unfair trade practices is provided by the trade defence instruments of the european union, in particular the anti-dumping rules. i would like to point out that a very large majority in the trade committee, like myself, felt that the review of trade defence instruments proposed by the commission was not appropriate at this stage. we should not prejudge the outcome of the wto talks, however difficult they may be at the moment. the european union's trade defence instruments have generally proved their worth. there is no need for amendments at present. in the face of falling tariffs, non-tariff barriers to trade are becoming more and more important. for example, counter-terrorism measures in all economic areas must not become the non-tariff trade barrier of the 21st century. the question of regulation also plays an important role in this context. we must therefore align our internal regulations more closely with those of our main trading partners. i therefore expressly support cooperation with the united states and the efforts made in recent weeks. i am very confident that we can make the most of the opportunities of global markets for us and especially for other developing countries, but also for industrialized nations, if they are given the right priorities. this will have a positive impact on the people of europe and on the people of the world as a whole, and i am very grateful to my colleagues, the committee secretariat and the group staff for having produced a report in the past few weeks which, in my view, could find a large majority in parliament in the subsequent vote. i would like to thank you for your cooperation and i would also like to thank the commission for taking our suggestions into account.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the report by my colleague daniel caspary is essentially a repetition of what is also expressed in the commission's global europe strategy. i cannot support this lisbon strategy of external trade policy, nor the market access strategy published in april, nor the policy of the new free trade agreements which are closely linked to it. the strategy and implementation are primarily aimed at improving market access opportunities for european companies in third countries. there is nothing to be said against that a priori. the aim is to make the supremacy of competitiveness the basis of not only customs duties but also consumer, environmental, social and development policies, in the spirit of free trade, by eliminating as far as possible all barriers to trade. the commission will also be proposing to extend the scope of the european union's trade defence instruments and to extend the protection of intellectual property rights. as it is clear that there will be little multilateral agreement within the wto on such a one-sided preference for large european companies in particular, the commission and the council are increasingly seeking to promote european economic interests through bilateral and regional agreements that go far beyond what is actually being discussed in the doha round. the keywords are deregulation of public procurement investment and competition policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. treating the strong and the weak equally is not treating them fairly, and it is a fair trade agreement. i would like to stress one important and correct point in the caspary report. it is unacceptable that almost all important european decisions are taken at european level without the involvement of the european parliament. we shall be discussing the economic partnership agreements this afternoon or later. it is true, mr commissioner, that the committee is having a lively exchange with the commerce dg and you, that is true, but we do not have the draft texts as the commerce committee. as long as there is such secret diplomacy within the european parliament, it is understandable that many eu citizens are increasingly sceptical of the actions of the european union.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to raise a few points which are important to my group on the report by mr daniel caspary and on the commission's proposal. i would like to thank the commissioner very much for having the courage to raise these issues in the first place and to propose a change of strategy in the european union. this is a process which parliament had called for as far back as 2002, when i myself suggested that we look more closely at asia in the area of agreements. i would like to thank you very much for that. the problem, however, is that since 2002 we have seen a major change in the global economic development. china has brought in other players, and the countries proposed, such as korea and some asean countries, but also india, are no longer classical developing countries, but have already become emerging countries and extremely competitive. however, some of its own countries are very poor, and this poses challenges for the european union. this means that we will have to pursue a sound trade strategy which calls for fairness in trade with these countries. we will have to strike a balance between, on the one hand, pursuing the opening up of markets to the countries in a case-by-case decision-making area and, on the other hand, of course, also demanding standards, for example in the fields of the environment and occupational safety and health, but also in the field of intellectual property. that will be a difficult balance to strike! commissioner, you have said that you have already granted parliament additional rights by handing over the mandate decision to us. that is correct and i want to express my thanks for that. i would ask you, however, to continue to support us in demanding from the council that we also be given the right of consent in the future, which will be a major contribution to the development of a sound trade policy. i would like to thank mr daniel caspary and my shadow rapporteur, mrs elisa ferreira, for their report and for their willingness to cooperate with us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we also thank our colleague david martin for his good work. let me start with a positive political development. it is good that the general affairs and external relations council, which is responsible for this, recognised on 15 may that tariff reductions represent a massive drop in government revenue for many developing countries. and it is good that he has stressed that compensation payments are necessary and necessary here. otherwise we would be in danger of our trade policy quickly leading to the collapse of any development policy in these countries. it is absolutely necessary that we do something about it. but we need additional resources, outside the development aid budget, if we are to achieve the millennium development goals. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. this is a wrong tendency which we could create by using these two billion if we do not deliberately take political action to counteract it. the stabilization of local markets is generally more important for development strategy than the export orientation of the weakest and poorest countries. it is a question of the coherence of our policies. aid for trade must not put the emphasis on poverty reduction into perspective, so additional funds are needed to finance it. i would also be very interested to know from which budget lines the money is being taken. aid for trade must not contribute to undermining the stabilisation of local markets, which must be at the heart of a development strategy. the commission's task in implementing the major aid for trade concept is to do this, and i would ask you, commissioner, to pay particular attention to these aspects.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the negotiations are now entering a decisive phase and they must not fail. but it is also clear that the pressure of time is overwhelming the weaker partner countries. that's what we keep hearing. we therefore need to plan trade more flexibly beyond 1 january 2008. we should learn from the mistakes of the doha round; there was a sacrosanct date that was crossed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. alternatives have also been discussed, such as expanding and developing the gsp+. that could be one way. we must prepare for this, we must not be surprised. we should stop overburdening the negotiations with the rules for investment in services. this makes negotiations difficult, it does not lead to a quick conclusion and it prevents us from concentrating on the essential.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when the wto ruled that the eu's preferential tariff treatment of its former colonies was at the same time a disadvantage to other developing countries, it was not calling for a new world order. commissioner, i think you are overestimating the planning capacity of your authority. the draft epas which you have now put on the table of the negotiating partners are clearly in excess of your negotiating mandate. in spite of the experience we have had in europe, you want to impose a global patchwork of economically based alliances. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am in any case opposed to imposing on our partner countries conditions which the forces of the market have not yet been able to impose even within the eu. its public procurement rules are open wedges for market opening. you put two boxers in the same ring, but one boxer weighs 100 kgs more than the other. i therefore urge you to suspend all negotiations beyond tariffs and to use your strength to achieve a more developmentally friendly form of the wto as a whole.
mr president, allow me, as rapporteur for the parallel report on organic farming, to make the following remark on the subject of external relations. we are voting today on a good report which makes it quite clear that the ...
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the co-decision procedure is the most important instrument of this house and the new agreement with the council and the commission makes the procedure much more transparent and efficient. we are on the same page with the council of ministers on a number of details. i would like to take this opportunity to thank dagmar roth-behrendt, alejo vidal-quadras and antonios trakatellis, who negotiated with the council and the commission for over a year, and also joseph daul, who supervised the whole process. the new agreement has therefore brought us a good deal of progress on the subject of codecision.
mr president of the council of ministers of the italian republic, mr romano prodi, it is with great pleasure that we welcome you here today in the european parliament to discuss together the future of europe. italy, one of the founding countries, has always been at the forefront of the european integration process and even now, when we are trying to find a solution to the impasse in which the european integration process is found, a solution which can be accepted by all, italy plays a decisive role. i would like to thank in particular the president of the italian republic, mr giorgio napolitano, for the fruitful cooperation we have established in order to make the reform of the treaties a success. the president of parliament knows that when he speaks he has the support not only of parliament but also of italy, and this gives him more strength. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the capital of the land, rome, a series of celebrations to mark the 50th anniversary of the rome treaties took place in march of this year. with great joy we were able to look back on 50 years of peace, stability, prosperity and progress for our citizens. now is the time, together in the future to blink. the european union today faces major challenges and must, in order to meet these challenges, take the necessary steps and reforms. as former president of the european commission, you, romano prodi, have marked an important moment in the history of the european union. the commission, led by them and represented in the convention by the members of the commission, vittorino and barnier, has actively participated in the work on the future of the european union and has been involved in the government conference on the birth of the constitution. the german presidency is currently working hard to find a satisfactory solution for the countries which have rejected the treaty, but also for the 18 member states and thus already the majority of the population of the european union which have ratified it. in this process, the european parliament is in substance limited to the constitutional treaty, not least because it is the result of a lengthy negotiation of compromises. we see but one, that we have to work hard, to find a solution. we therefore strongly support the efforts of the german presidency, and in particular of chancellor angela merkel, to achieve renewed consensus among the 27 member states. but it would be a misinterpretation of the will of the citizens, who expressed their concerns in the referendums in france and the netherlands, rather than our response to a limitation of democracy, the ability to govern and the transparency of the european union. the european parliament will therefore give its opinion with no result in favour of the european union and its citizens. mr president, with good will i am convinced that this is not only a step towards each other, but also a possible outcome. mr president-in-office of the council of ministers of the italian republic, may i now take the floor?
president of the italian council of ministers. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crucial moment for the future of europe and for the construction of europe: it is with this awareness, and not without emotion, that i address you today. i thank president hans gert poettering for this opportunity. between now and the 2009 elections, europe's future is at stake. in a month's time, the european council will decide on the start of an intergovernmental conference at the end of which we will be able to say that we have lived up to the commitments we all made together in berlin on 25 march. it is about deciding what europe needs, what we all need, in order to meet the challenges that the world is putting before us. it sounds like an abstract question, but it's very concrete. we should have understood by now that the ability of us europeans to interpret the global world and seize its opportunities depends on how we manage our common institutions. let me say at the outset, quite frankly, that i do not share the view of those who continue to oppose the need to produce results to the need to strengthen the european institutions. it is precisely to achieve more results that i hope for and have always fought for stronger and more effective common institutions! we're not starting from scratch this time. we don't have to reinvent anything new. in october 2004, all european countries signed a treaty and 18 countries have ratified it. in the last two years, the reasons of those who hesitate have been heard above all. it is now time to hear from those who ratified the 2004 treaty. who have committed themselves, even in front of their own citizens, to continue on that path. a journey that began a few years earlier in laeken, and which had been twisted from a fundamental and unimpeachable assumption: the european council in brussels in december 2006 stressed that europe could not achieve ambitious results without equally ambitious reforms. well, i'm convinced that assumption still holds. and so we must start again from october 2004, putting aside the mourning and the pauses for reflection of the last two years and thinking seriously and responsibly about our future and that of our children. it is not just about agreeing on the new rules we need. there are other equally priority needs without which europe cannot function: a true balance sheet and real policies on the great challenges of our time: but let us start today with the most urgent issue, that of overcoming the constitutional impasse and reforming the institutions. to do this, we must adhere to a principle which is at the heart of our being in the european union. a principle so fundamental that it defines the very ethics of our being together. it is the view that in the development of the european project, an effort must always be made to understand the reasons of others, to take responsibility for them in some way. we have always made this effort and we will continue to do so. but we expect others to be equally understanding. we expect these others to share our aspirations. which in this case, as you all know, are those of those who want a closer union. it is with this principle in mind that we will make every effort to help the german and portuguese presidencies to preserve the maximum of our union ambitions, while taking the utmost account of the reasons of others. in view of this, i should now like to say what i think we cannot afford to do at the european council in june and at the intergovernmental conference that will follow. first of all, let us remember that this time the respect of time is directly linked to a question of democracy. in 2009, european voters will have to know what kind of europe they are voting for. what role will the european parliament play? what are your duties? if there is a permanent presidency of the council, a european foreign minister. how the commission will be formed and so on... the mandate of the intergovernmental conference must therefore be precise and selective. by pointing out the few significant trading blocks and, above all, how to dissolve them. only then will we be able to deliver on our promise to define the new rules by 2009. with an open mandate, the conference would hardly close by the end of 2007, and the time for national transitions to the new agreement would not allow the process to be completed by the first months of 2009. the impasse would be automatic. let me make a point here. this is a thought that comes to me spontaneously after re-reading the 2004 constitutional treaty just these days - i would like to invite everyone to review it now that time has passed and that greater detachment is possible. well, the 2004 text is a good one. it's really nice. with a big european breath. the first part of the report, in particular, clearly and comprehensibly conveys the meaning and vision of the great common undertaking we have undertaken. let us therefore think twice before we put it on the shelf and go the way of the total or partial comb grafts in the existing treaties. we would lose a wealth of simplicity and readability at the expense of citizens' understanding of and, therefore, their commitment to the european project! but above all, we would lose a text that reflects a coherent conception of europe, a text that combines the ideal aspirations of many of us with the practical and commonly felt need to give our union more solid rules and adequate means to meet the new challenges. the way the negotiations have been going so far leads me to believe that unfortunately we will have to go back to the 2004 text. and yet i would like to stand here today before you all with my conviction that in doing so we would be depriving ourselves of something very important! and that for us who believe in the european project, this would be a huge sacrifice, a very high price to pay for those who have ratified and democratically invested in ratification. let's keep that in mind. we cannot therefore accept a reversal of the existing institutional package. the strengthening of the common foreign and security policy through a foreign minister, a stable presidency of the council, the extension of qualified majority voting, the overcoming of the three-pillar structure and the legal personality of the union are all aspects which are essential to us and must be safeguarded. i should like to warn against certain appeals to 'realism' which are typical of the eve of an important european council and which are invariably geared to downward compromises. i would like to point out that if it is true that the great global challenges can only be tackled at european level, then the only real realism is that of those who want a europe that can meet these challenges, not those who do not want it! on the internal level, i am thinking of defending the european social model and creating a genuine area of freedom, security and justice. how can we fail to see that this is an indispensable complement to a european citizenship which is not only economic? on the external front, i am thinking of wars, the fight against international terrorism, the global challenges of energy and climate change (hydrogen). how can we deny that the only way to make our choices and our values stand out on the international scene is to be able to express a foreign policy worthy of the name, communicating it to the world with one voice? as regards the structure of the european union, do not think that this is a purely theoretical question. the complexity of the union is one of the main reasons for the distance between it and its citizens. how can we not see the advantages of going beyond the pillar structure, especially in terms of clarity and understanding by the citizens? the 2004 constitutional treaty provides convincing answers on these points. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. do we really want to risk adding to the complexity of the system by failing to affect it in depth and merely tinkering with a few surface touches? we are not going to let the european parliament, the council and the commission, be the ones to decide on the future of europe. so, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the european people, let us not indulge in negative rhetoric about europe. we can't keep hiding it from our fellow citizens. let us show you this europe instead. with pride. let's show everyone what it has given us in terms of peace and well-being, let's explain how fundamental it is to our existence. we say once and for all to our fellow citizens that in a world which is now a system of continents it makes no sense for a state and its citizens to live outside a political and economic aggregate which is strong at home and authoritative abroad. italy will therefore work in these negotiations to reach a high compromise. i believe we can do this, we must do this together. of course, if an agreement at 27 were to prove impossible, then the question would arise as to how to proceed. and the only way to solve this dilemma is to recall the fundamental principle i spoke about at the beginning of my speech: it is the very ethos of the union that no one should be too much and for too long a burden on the aspirations of others. italy, which has always believed deeply in europe, therefore feels that it has an additional duty today. the idea is to imagine, or to begin to imagine, how to enable those countries which so wish to make real progress in the construction of european unity. i think that we should not necessarily all go at the same speed. i hope so, and i will see to it. but i realize that's not always possible. on the other hand, some of europe's most significant political choices, such as the euro and the creation of the schengen area, have already been made by only a few member states. not against anyone; without excluding others; i'm not saying that i'm not going to, but i'm going to keep the door open. and it was a choice respected by those who at the time did not feel ready to go in a certain direction right away. i hope that this same constructive approach will prevail in the future. and may he prevail over any temptation to veto. italy has always felt, as you know, that being europeanist was the best way to be farsighted. but today, foresight does not mean merely drawing up ambitious scenarios for the future of european integration. it also means that we must take up the problem of allowing the peoples who wish to achieve their ambitions for union at the time and in the manner most suited to them. if no one ever takes the trouble to even imagine such an eventuality, we risk undermining the european project, frustrating the ideals of those who have so far believed in it. even countries like mine, which have invested unreservedly in the construction of europe for 50 years, may eventually exhaust their vital capacity. i would therefore like to conclude with a double message. italy will give the greatest possible support to the german and then the portuguese presidency so that the european council of 21 and 22 june and the intergovernmental conference that will follow will be a success in which all the member states can recognize themselves. at the same time, italy knows that a compromise is not an end in itself. and if we were not convinced by such a compromise, we would not sign it. a vanguard of countries might then prove to be the best way to continue the path towards an ever closer union, provided that the door is always left open to those who want to join at a later stage. finally, i would like to make a strong appeal to the members of parliament, the direct representatives of the people. i am speaking in particular to the members of the european parliament who represent the people of europe. you have an irreplaceable role to play in making the public aware of what is at stake. only if your work is combined with that of the governments can we create the conditions for a successful constitutional negotiation. we must be aware that we cannot fail, or else decline. the decline of an advanced idea of europe; of a europe that knows how to be an actor in the world thanks to the values that constitute its foundation. we risk becoming once again the little western appendage of the asian continent, to which not only geography but also future history would condemn us. thank you, sir.
we are grateful to you, mr prodi, for this convincing european contribution. i hope everyone can hear him.
i would like to thank mr joseph daul, also for the extremely accurate timing of his speech.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prodi, the prime minister! i thank you very much for your encouraging speech, to which i have nothing to add as chairman of my group. what you have said is the opinion of my group. we thank you for your clarity. if you go into the negotiations with that clarity, we're not afraid. we are not afraid of that because at least we will have a strong leader at this intergovernmental conference who is not prepared to compromise at any price. a compromise which would abandon the substance of what we have worked out in the constitution would not be a compromise but a defeat for the work of european unification. so thank you for your clear commitment. (applause from the centre) my colleague poul nyrup rasmussen had the opportunity to sit at the table in nice and to negotiate the treaty of nice. i often have the opportunity to discuss this with him. when the 15 heads of government left the chamber in nice, they all said that this result was not enough. because it was one of those minimal compromises that was made so that more heads of government would not fall asleep. that is why the convention was convened, because those who were sitting in nice said: 'this is not enough for enlargement'. but enlargement is coming and if we want to master enlargement we need a different treaty basis. so they reluctantly agreed to our demand for a convention. because they knew that what we had negotiated for 15 was not enough for 27. then they adopted a constitution. they said it was good. yes, i agree. it was a good constitution. now it has been rejected and we have been thrown back into the treaty of nice. but i ask you this question: is what was true in 2000 - that nice is not enough for enlargement - wrong in 2007? no, nice is not enough for enlargement, but we have already enlarged on the basis of an insufficient treaty. those who want to leave the european union in this state want to destroy it! that is the wish of those who want a new contract at any price. and we can't give them a place. (applause from the centre) some say: nice minus, nice is still too much for us. today i heard a head of government say that there can be no compromise with these people. if you want to go back to nice, you better not go to the intergovernmental conference at all. it is now time to speak plainly. 18 of the member states of the european union have already ratified this constitutional treaty. two of these member states ratified it by referendum, namely spain and luxembourg. why do we allow only france and the netherlands to be mentioned? why do we not say that in europe two peoples have voted in favour of this treaty, and more europeans voted in favour of the constitution than against it? this is also a truth of european democracy which should be stated at this point. mr president, the european union is a successful model of internal peace, social stability, the combination of economic growth and social stability and the export of values as the basis of policy in the international arena. if we want to maintain this successful model, we must make many changes to the existing contractual bases. the italian writer tomasi di lampedusa, in his novel the leopard, has his nephew tancredi say the beautiful phrase to the prince of salina: everything must change so that everything remains as it is! if europe is to remain as successful as it is, it must change its treaty foundations, and if you fight like a leopard, we will fight with you. (applause from the centre)
mr le pen, the votes are going to be one way or another. i don't think anyone could have covered this better than you.
president of the italian council of ministers. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you very much for this debate, which, like all debates in this parliament, has been short, constructive and frank. it highlighted the very different positions of the two sides on the future of the european union. if we hear some of the final speeches, even irreconcilable positions. of course, this problem must be tackled, discussed and brought forward in a democratic and open way, as it always is and as it always has been in this parliament. and that's what prompted me to make my opening statement. in order to regulate this great diversity, this breadth of opinion, we must have rules that allow us to manage the european union, which we all have. we're forgetting the long way we've come in organizing the constitutional treaty; we forget the 18 months of the convention, the debates, the involvement of the national parliaments, the european parliament. let's forget that it wasn't a closed debate. but it has achieved something, and i quote mr muscardini: "but, beware that in politics you have to reach a compromise, a high compromise". well, the draft constitution was already a compromise! as president of the european commission i suffered from some of the great leaps forward that were missing in that treaty. we wanted this compromise because they understood, precisely because of political realism, that you cannot have everything! that our idea of europe was even stronger, but that at that time the historical circumstances allowed it. it was signed by all the countries of the union, including london, with the responsibility of the governments of the union. now, it is said that this treaty was born like this, from a small room and out of the will of the people. he was born of the representatives of the people! it was signed by the governments elected by the people! that's what happened! clearly we can still seek compromise, because we have always sought compromise in our lives, but compromise cannot be used to disappoint and cancel the european project. this is the impassable limit that we have set for ourselves and that is why i gave a speech in which i outlined the fundamental points from which we cannot go back: it is the points of the popular will, the pillar problem, the foreign minister problem! but what, are we ashamed to call our representative foreign minister? you can call him secretary of state, if you like, to use the anglo-saxon terminology. what are we afraid of? but we do not realize how much it has cost over the years not to have a foreign minister! we do not realize what we could not do in the middle east, in all the neighboring areas. how we have allowed the political situation to deteriorate, because of our divisions! is this the irresponsibility with which we face history? the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. and if we don't figure it out now, when will we? i have only recently left that commission seat, a couple of years ago or a little more! well, the balance of power in the world: china, india, asia, the problem of a europe that has not been able to speak to these great peoples and has not been able to speak as an equal to the united states of america, to convince it! isn't that enough to weigh on our future? do we want to continue to be nothing even to a whole next generation? that is the question i am asking you before the intergovernmental conference, before the european council. i'm not asking any more questions! i am thinking of europe's sense of responsibility towards history, towards our own lives and those of our children.
thank you very much, prime minister prodi! the applause expresses the opinion of the european parliament.
mr dillen, you have addressed me personally. i have already made a statement to the house yesterday. i will not allow anyone to prevent a conversation between the dalai lama and the president of the european parliament. there's a letter on the way. i am waiting for a reply and will make my comments at the appropriate time.
thank you, mr kirkhope. my information is that the british prime minister has close contact with gordon brown!
and that was the experience of a former prime minister who is now an mep.
we thank the italian prime minister! you have seen that the vast majority of the european parliament shares your convictions. the next few weeks will be about making that belief a reality. we wish you every success in this, especially at the summit meeting in brussels one month from now, on 21 and 22 june. the debate is closed. (applause from the centre) written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to say, madam president, the situation is indeed tragic. sderot is being bombarded daily by radical hamas groups with qassam rockets. these missile attacks are not a coincidence, but rather the fifth violation of the ceasefire. once again, there is an attempt to divert attention from the internal struggles between the palestinians themselves, that is to say between hamas and fatah. in these battles 55 palestinians have been killed, killed by palestinian hands. now it seemed time to turn attention once again to the common enemy, israel. and how does israel react? with a heavy hand. this israeli government, which has an approval rating of around 3%, is doing hamas a favour by trying to take out the source of the attacks militarily. there have been other palestinian civilian casualties, which we regret. once again, hamas has won time and can postpone the necessary political concessions. we seem paralyzed again. because there were concessions in mecca. they were not enough, no doubt, but despite the weaknesses of mecca, these concessions were an important step towards peace. that agreement has now been violated at its core by renewed violence. i therefore believe that it is important and right that the european union, until further notice, press for full compliance with the quartet's terms and the mecca agreements before resuming its payments to the unity government. this is not in contradiction with the call by mr mcmillan-scott to seek pragmatic, comprehensive cooperation where it actually serves the people's interests. however, we should not give up this important instrument too soon. i would encourage the council and the commission and the arab league to make progress in their efforts and i would very much like them to succeed as soon as possible.
member of the commission. thanks to the preparatory work it has done, the commission has brought the mobile operators to take this initiative because the mobile operators understood very well that the commission would not stand still and not do anything. we had seen in our recent surveys that there are many children who use mobile phones – in fact the majority of children over 12 years old. most of all, camera phones and the location services can be a problem; for instance in the uk 10% of respondents say they had an unpleasant image taken of them, 17% of the kids feared that the image was posted online and forwarded to others, and 14% had experienced cyber-bulling. in save the children finland’s survey, 30% of 7 to 15 year olds had experienced bullying through their mobile phones. so we know that there is a problem, but this does not mean that we have to push the parents now into saying ‘no more mobile phones for our kids’. that would be the wrong reaction. that is why it is so important that for instance the access for control for adult content should be available and that there be awareness-raising campaigns for parents and grandparents – who often buy mobile phones for their grandchildren – and for the children themselves. it is important that the classification of commercial content according to national standards of decency and appropriateness is taking place, and that, as commissioner frattini has explained, the fight against illegal content on mobiles is really carried out. we decided no later than today in the commission to establish this fight against illegal content. what we are speaking about here is not the illegal content as such, it is the dangers which can occur for children, and here the awareness-raising campaigns are the most important. we will monitor what is happening in that field, and we will monitor what the signatories of this memorandum of understanding have agreed upon. i have the european framework for safer mobile use by younger teenagers and children with me; i can hand it over to the member and then she can see if this is taking place in her country, for instance, and i would be very grateful if she would inform me about that.
member of the commission. the commission has been monitoring the situation in vojvodina very closely. we have urged the authorities to tackle inter-ethnic incidents promptly. we have encouraged the authorities to promote good inter-ethnic relations and to preserve vojvodina’s multi-ethnic and multicultural model. as noted in the november 2006 progress report on serbia, the inter-ethnic situation in vojvodina has improved. there has been a decrease in the number of incidents. no significant incident has been reported in the first few months of 2007. the authorities have taken a number of measures concerning the official use of minority languages and scripts as well as the representation of minorities in the judiciary and police. improvements have also been recorded concerning education. the importation of albanian- and hungarian-language text books for use in vojvodina has been approved. a hungarian-language teacher-training faculty has been set up in subotica, which has been operational since october last year. these measures obviously need to be further developed and complemented. we have noted, however, that there has been no progress in the adoption of new legislation on the national councils for the minority groups, and problems persist in the area of information in minority languages. therefore, we have requested that the serbian authorities take further effective action on these matters.
commissioner, i have two questions. firstly, what about the unfortunately systematic settlement of serb refugees from bosnia and kosovo, which is changing the ethnic composition of the area, for example in the large hungarian community of temerin near novi sad? the second question is: what about the teachers' training institutes which were to be set up with eu funds for the romanians, slovaks and ruthenians, but which have failed? have they been set up?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing the council's annual report on the cfsp today without the council. i am therefore all the more grateful to the commission and to the commissioner for being here today. it also sheds a great deal of light on the european parliament that it is dealing with this, the only formal report we are presenting in the field of foreign and security policy, in the night session. i believe that in recent years, and particularly in the period we are witnessing here, cooperation with the commission in the field of foreign and security policy and in many areas also with the council has been extremely positive. we have made considerable progress in the development of the neighbourhood policy and the policy relating to the balkans, we are also increasingly able to position ourselves in the field of security and defence policy, the european union is now taking on a level of tasks that were almost unimaginable ten years ago, five years ago. we must therefore consider it a success that today the european union - whether in the middle east or in the iran issue - has for the first time been able to involve other countries in our strategy of combining prevention, civil crisis management and military capabilities, rather than relying solely on military capabilities, and thus making the idea of the european union's soft power a more powerful policy on a global scale. at the same time, we must ask ourselves whether we are capable of fully meeting the challenges with the progress we have made. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is important that we take some measures in advance. i would like to encourage the commission, for example, to push forward the expansion of its delegations, which we have in 120 countries, so that they can be used by the other institutions in the run-up to the foreign service provided for by the constitutional treaty. since the council is not here and cannot listen, i can say that this would also be an excellent opportunity to prove that such an external service should also be the responsibility of the commission in the future and that we do not need an independent institution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is represented in 120 countries by commission delegations. it is the world's largest trading power, with 20% of world trade. we have a gross national product, which is not per capita, but overall higher than that of the united states of america. if we succeed in translating this into political language, and in the sense of a position based not only on military force but also on soft power, then we will be able to make the transatlantic alliance operational - and to do so on an equal footing - and thus exert influence on an equal footing, as was the case recently with the transatlantic economic agreement, which for us means an important step forward in continuing relations with the united states, which will remain our ally in the future. we cannot be equidistant from russia and america, but the usa is our first partner in terms of values. this must be made clear in such a context so that there is no misunderstanding on such a question. (applause from the centre) whether one agrees with the current government policy is a minor issue in such a context. but at the same time we must see that we can only achieve this impact if we also act together. solidarity means that we are in solidarity with the outside world. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council and the german presidency as a whole for demonstrating this in samara together with the commission. we have not burned anything here and we have made it clear that we have not allowed ourselves to be divided. we cannot allow america to divide us into an old and a new europe. but we must not allow our neighbour to the east to think that there are different regions with different security standards and that in some regions we have more influence than in others. every state in europe and the world must be free to decide which alliance and community it belongs to, and no neighbour, however large, can use its influence to try to change that. this is a key point of the 1975 helsinki treaty, namely that each country decides for itself which community it wants to belong to. we must nevertheless recognize that this great neighbour is important to us in the energy sector and for other reasons as well. that is why we must also ensure that the strategic partnership with russia is expanded, because i would prefer that such a democratic russia be on our side and not on the side of iran. (the president cut the speaker off)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not mr president, we social democrats support your report, although there are differences of opinion on some points of concrete policy. we believe, for example, that it should be said that there are concerns and fears about the planned deployment of the american missile defence system in some countries of the european union, that this will lead to a new round of arms race. we are very pleased to note that some of the same questions we have about this system are now being asked in the house of representatives of the united states congress. but why are we supporting your report? we support it because it is presented in a very concrete situation and because it has also found a large majority in the committee, and this concrete situation is the final stage in the creation of a new treaty basis for the european union and for the common foreign and security policy. we social democrats want this progress. if you will allow me this little bit of vulgarity, we may be supporting him tomorrow with a greater degree of solidarity than some of the members of your own group. in this context, it is also worth mentioning what is at issue. you have rightly raised this point, and i want to emphasize it again. we who are sitting here will no longer be affected. but it could potentially affect our grandchildren. you 'll read in the history books someday: in 2007, europeans once again had the chance to shape the world's destiny. they squandered that opportunity, and then the world's influence was divided between the united states and china. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. many of them have been listed by mr klich. i join that list. this should become the common position of the large majority of this parliament tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you will probably be surprised to learn that my group, the green group in the european parliament, not only welcomes the brok report, but expressly supports it. i have noted with interest and pleasure the newfound passion of mr brok for soft power. i can only express my warm welcome to this and i look forward to seeing how he applies this to the european union's enlargement policy with regard to the western balkans, but also to turkey. i don't want to go into this. the council's relations with the european parliament in the field of cfsp and the esdp are certainly beyond the scope of this report. we will be informed at some later date, depending on our taste and how we assess the situation. this is rightly criticised and needs to be changed. but even what has hitherto been established as the common foreign, security and defence policy often does not deserve the name that goes with it. i will try to illustrate this in concrete terms with the example of kosovo. the european union member states have sent a lot of soldiers, aid workers and money to the crisis region in recent years and are now planning a broad police involvement and civilian presence. the quality and quantity of our joint achievements suggest that the european union is pursuing a clear, coherent and common policy on kosovo. the reality, however, as we all know, is different, although the matter is already being discussed in the united nations security council. the question is again: should we wait for the americans to intervene, or are we able to solve the problem ourselves?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to start today with the points on which we agree. the timing of the debate is a misnomer. the subject is far too important for that, and - this is surprisingly clearly stated in the report - there is no real parliamentary control over the european union's military policy. this is very clearly described in several paragraphs 41, 42 and 43. the council should finally take note of the fact that the european parliament is in fact in complete agreement on this point: we want parliamentary control and we want the european parliament to be involved in decisions on military policy. but in order to avoid this becoming a matter of consensus, i shall now mention the points on which we disagree. the central point is indeed what elmar brok has just mentioned, namely the constitutional treaty. as the commissioner has already described, the constitutional treaty will indeed bring substantial 'progress' in the field of military policy. that is one of the reasons why we reject this constitutional treaty. we hope that precisely such passages as article i-41 (3) will no longer appear in this proposed treaty. i'm not sure about that. it seems that the virtually identical treaty should no longer be called a constitutional treaty but should be adopted in a different form by the various governments. i would like to make a few comments on some points in this report. it is very clear that structural cooperation is central. it is indeed central if we want a military power european union. we do not want that, so we do not want this structured cooperation. and it very clearly states the athena mechanism, which is used to finance the european union's military operations through tricks. for example, military operations are also financed by so-called 'back flows' from the european development fund. we think this is a scandal. the european union must not become a military power.
the commission's vice-president mr president, a year ago the commission submitted to the european parliament and the council a draft regulation laying down the general rules for the granting of community financial assistance in the field of transeuropean transport and energy networks. we had to change the commission's original proposal from 2004, which was based on higher budgetary resources and closer to needs. the budget reduction for the trans-european ten-t networks in the 2007-13 financial perspective has forced us to revise certain principles of community co-financing of projects in this network. in this connection, mr president, mr president of the committee on transport, i should like to thank the european parliament for having kindly increased the budget for the transeuropean networks by eur 500 million: without the support of the european parliament, the budget reduction would have been even greater. the draft regulation has been amended in three directions. first, an increased concentration of funds on the highest priorities, those which provide the most added value; secondly, particular attention to new instruments to promote, in particular, public/private partnerships; thirdly, a reduction in the community intervention rates. these new conditions must lead us to seek the greatest efficiency in project selection and to innovate as much as possible in the field of financial engineering. i welcome the fact that parliament and the council have supported this approach and that there have been no substantive differences. the european institutions are unanimous in their view that the continuous development of the transeuropean transport network is necessary to achieve the union's economic, social and environmental objectives. the new regulation therefore provides a clear basis for concentrating available resources on the main priorities of the trans-european networks, i.e. the priorities approved by the european parliament and the council in 2004 in the framework of the decision on the guidelines for the trans-european transport network. the crossborder sections of the priority axes will, of course, be the main priorities for community funding: i am thinking of the brenner, i am thinking of the lyon-turin railway. on the other hand, and this is still one of the priorities, i will mention the traffic management system for all modes of transport, in particular the european rail traffic management system, which allows interoperability of infrastructures, then river infrastructure, in particular the two priority projects, and also maritime transport, with the motorways of the sea, with river information services and the vessel traffic management system. these priorities are in line with the commission's communication on the promotion of inland waterway and maritime traffic and, more generally, on the development of sustainable transport. the commission is therefore seeking an effective approach, relying on the commitment of the member states. the member states also need to focus their investments on the priorities set out in the ten guidelines decision and the member states need to use public/private partnerships. if parliament is willing to adopt this financial regulation, on which mr mauro has made an excellent report, the commission will launch calls for proposals for projects the day after parliament's position is adopted. i am saying, mr president, how much i hope that you will be able to confirm the agreement negotiated between the three institutions, both on procedure and on substance. this agreement is the result of a compromise which has already resulted in amendments to the commission's original proposal and to the council's common position. i have already fulfilled my commitments to the commission by keeping you and the member states informed at every stage of the procedure. of course, agreements must be respected. this is how we can adopt this regulation quickly, in the interests of the development of major european transport projects. i thank the rapporteur, mr mauro, for all the efforts he has made. i share his wish that the text be adopted as it stands, without amendments, and i reaffirm, mr president, my commitment to submit any future draft decision in this area to the chairmen of the committees on transport and budgets. i'll provide them with any additional information they may wish to obtain. that is a commitment i have made and which i solemnly confirm before the european parliament this evening. mr president, i shall listen carefully to the speakers who will be speaking on this subject.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i would like to thank you, mr vice-president, on behalf of the epp group, for the mediation you have given us. she was very important to the compromise. but i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mario mauro, and the chairman at the time, mr costa, who is still active, and mr lewandowski, for this compromise. but at the same time we must say that the council has delayed the procedure for months. the council is to blame for our inability to spend the funds for 2007 on transeuropean projects now! we should clearly blame the council here, because it would have been much better if we had had this financial regulation earlier and could have decided earlier. commissioner, you promised to keep us fully informed. i am sure you will inform not only the committee chairmen but also the committees. i would appeal to you to be as strict in the examination as you promised us. there should be no national quotas. the funds are to be allocated to projects of european interest and not to countries a and b. we should not be babbling, but supporting the projects that really matter. so not everyone should get something, but the crossborder projects which are really important for europe should be fully funded after consulting parliament and the commission. the epp-ed group calls on the german government to clarify two important priority projects in germany by the summer of this year, otherwise the union cannot include these projects in the financial planning. firstly, germany must present a clear plan for the deepening of the danube between straubing and vilshofen in order to finally establish economically viable navigability of the danube from the black sea to the north sea. secondly, germany must agree with denmark on the construction and financing of a fixed crossing over the fehmarn belt. only if a bilateral agreement is presented can this fixed crossing be included in the financial planning.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have good news for our citizens in europe today: calling from mobile phones in europe will become cheaper in the future. for many years we have called for transparency in the wage jungle. the prices were completely opaque and exorbitant. every citizen has had the experience of checking his mobile phone bill after a holiday and finding that the few calls he had made from outside europe or the calls he had received had cost him horrendous fees. it's over now. in the future, everyone will enjoy a low fare. i'm very happy about that. this is a great success for our parliament. the president-in-office has already mentioned that we have been negotiating hard with the council for weeks. we can be very proud of the result we have achieved at the end of the day - 49 cents a minute for a roaming call in europe at the beginning, 46 cents next year and 43 cents the year after that. let me say a word to the business community and industry: i think we all knew that market regulation, and particularly the regulation of retail tariffs, is a very sharp sword. after seeing that the market had not developed as we had imagined over the years, we all agreed that we had to intervene politically. but this is a special case, of course, an isolated case. it is important to emphasize that parliament does not now want to pursue price regulation in other areas, but that this was a precedent which will hopefully not be necessary again. the development of the last few months alone since the regulation was tabled has already shown how much movement has taken place in this market. this development justifies the fact that we have given the right political impetus. i would like to conclude by expressing my sincere thanks to our rapporteur, mr paul rübig, who has been conducting the negotiations here for many months. i also thank my colleagues in the negotiating delegation - it was not easy to get our position across to the council - and i thank the commissioner for having the courage to present this regulation, and i also thank the secretariat of the committee and the translators who managed to present the regulation in 23 languages in just a few days. this is sensational and shows that europe is working well and is committed to achieving its goals. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree that this is good news for holidaymakers, for business travellers and also for meps and other people travelling in different european countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european telecommunications industry is not left behind. it is good news that europe is prepared to impose common rules against monopoly interests. unfortunately , it 's got a little bit of wormwood in it . the parliament's proposals have been watered down by the particular interests of service providers and their monopoly position in some member states. the compromise reached is also substantially higher in terms of final consumer prices than the commission's proposal, which is not generally considered to be anti-industry. this is not good news for european community law, but it is an important and right first step for consumers. i would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to and achieved greater transparency and freedom of choice for consumers in mobile communications in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a saying in german: "good intentions are not good deeds". the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. of course, roaming charges are excessive, and of course we are seeing a market failure. the question is, how do i fix this market failure? is this about price formation and price regulation mechanisms, as has been done here, or is it not more sensible that in future discussions on the telecommunications package we adapt the market access directive accordingly so that providers throughout europe have the opportunity to offer their services in all countries in order to create competition which creates a price pressure so that these prices will then also go down? we have seen in national markets after the liberalisation of the telecommunications markets that this has worked. this must also be possible at european level. if you have a headache, the doctor does not cut off your head, but may give you an aspirin. we should consider these measures rather than throwing the child out with the bath. i regret this return to a price regulation mechanism which the eu abandoned some 20 years ago.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the consumer is clearly the winner today, and that is good news for the citizens. i am very proud of that, even though we social democrats would have liked more. but something positive has happened here. we have deliberately limited ourselves to telephone calls in this legislation. we have not legislated on texting, mms and other data transmissions. but we call on the industry to take a cue from what has happened here. we shall be watching closely what happens in these other areas in the next few years. if you do not learn from what we have done in the legislation, we will be forced to legislate in these areas too, and we will also support the european commission fully in this. this is a warning you should take to heart. we don't necessarily want to legislate, but if we have to, we will do it, and we will do it with the full force of the law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. thank you very much to everyone who worked on this project. the result is better than what was available at the beginning of the consultation. there is also some good news: firstly, consumers are being relieved, secondly, the eu has shown its ability to act, thirdly, a regulation is on the table for the house, which is limited in time and will expire after three years - i hope it will also expire - and fourthly, we are contributing to increasing transparency. this is an important prerequisite for competition to be created and for consumers to be able to choose the tariff they want or the provider they choose. but there is a big problem, and i think that needs to be addressed in all clarity. we are intervening as a political body and yet we are setting prices. we set the final prices. that is not the job of politics! it is not our job to set prices. there may be other political and economic systems that see this as an objective. i do not think that is the task of european politics. we may not even consider the consequences of such intervention in pricing, because there is a high probability that something will be lost elsewhere. if we are always laughed at and intervene again and again, we will not achieve what we want, but history will end up as a pyrrhic victory. i'm not going to give you any price. are the prices now being set really the right prices? they were basically negotiated. to be fair, we have to admit that at the end of this path is a result that is somewhat random. the council has done well to ensure that these are maximum prices. that's a good approach! if we are going in the direction of price regulation, then the entry should be made through maximum prices, which leaves the possibility of regulation open, at least in theory. it cannot be ruled out that a piece of competition may arise under this condition. is this an isolated case or a precedent? that is the central question. i'm afraid it was a precedent. a colleague has just said, in the most unflinching frankness: at last a taboo has been broken - we have intervened in the market. this is exactly what should not have happened, exactly what i regret and feel is wrong!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs roithová said that a seven-year war is coming to an end. of these seven years, the commission has been fighting for five years. we in parliament have called for something to be done. i am very grateful to the council for having pulled the bureaucratic teeth on the commission's draft. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. we agree on the objectives. i must admit that there are also attempts in parliament to regulate final prices. i am grateful that the european tariff has a level below which competition can develop. i am fairly certain that this competition will start relatively quickly, given that the regulation is limited to three years. we will see roaming charges remain below this ceiling because we have at the same time achieved the objective of creating more transparency and empowering the mature consumer. i am convinced that it cannot be our task to regulate final prices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have chosen a different method - mr goebbels was there - for crossborder payments. we have arranged it in such a way that we have fixed internal market prices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are respected. this one is at the edge of the bearable. i shall nevertheless agree and i would like to express my gratitude to the negotiators of parliament, to the chairman of the committee, to the council and finally to the commission for being still prepared to accept this compromise at the end of the negotiations.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the rapporteur, mrs panayotopoulos, for her work. it is a work in which a number of parliamentary committees have been involved, and the level and quality of the report shows this. let me also say that decent work is a global initiative that was formulated by the international labour organization, and thanks to the very strong support of the european union, it has really become a global initiative that is being accepted in more and more countries. the concept of decent work was endorsed by the european council and has recently been addressed by the g8 meeting of labour and social affairs ministers. it's a concept that's gaining momentum. in any event, the commission shares the parliament's view that the basic elements of decent work, i.e. social support, social cohesion, decent work, freedom of association, are elements to be applied in all international contacts, whether bilateral, multilateral or project-based, with third countries. this is in full accordance with the european commission's social agenda and the main line formulated in the communication already cited. as much as this project is gaining support, it is clear that there is still a lot of work to be done, and i see the most important thing is to achieve full ratification of all the ilo conventions within the european union. the european commission is also making use of the means at its disposal, and we are currently working very intensively on ratification and the social dialogue that is being established on the basis of the new maritime conventions. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the decent work initiative is not only an initiative that has its basic and ethical content, but it is undoubtedly a tool that will allow us to formulate the principles of globalization and to take advantage of the benefits that globalization gives us and to suppress the disadvantages that are associated with it. it is therefore a process which is alive and well and the commission will in any event be involved in it to the extent of its possibilities.
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. the commission is not prepared to accept this. half the world's workers earn less than two dollars a day, and half the world's population has no social security. every year, two million people die from work-related accidents and diseases, and more than 160 million workers fall ill because of work-related risks. officially registered unemployment is only the tip of the iceberg. the poor can't afford to sit idle. many work hour after hour, often in unreasonable conditions, to earn a living. the european union and its member states should make every effort to take full account of the promotion of decent work in the implementation of the millennium development goals. we need a fair and innovative tax policy. i am thinking here, for example, of the taxation of financial and monetary transactions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the exclusion of international financial institutions from the award of public contracts and export credit guarantees would be an appropriate means of achieving this. we need a european development and trade policy which enables people to live economically ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
the next item is the debate on the future of europe with the dutch prime minister and member of the european council, mr jan peter balkenende, whom i warmly welcome here in the european parliament. (applause from the centre) mr president, it is a great pleasure to welcome you today as prime minister of the netherlands to the european parliament to discuss the future of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the kingdom of the netherlands is not only one of the founding members of the european union, but has also been at the forefront of those who have wanted to promote and support the european integration process as a successful project unparalleled in the history of our continent, time and again and with great determination over the past 50 years. important treaties and agreements of the european union bear the names of dutch cities: the treaty of maastricht, which established the european union, and the treaty of amsterdam, which gave the european parliament full co-decision rights. it is all the more painful that the citizens of the netherlands have rejected in a referendum the draft constitution which contains answers so important for the future of the european union. i am convinced, however, along with my colleagues in the european parliament and with you, mr president-in-office, that this decision does not mean that the dutch people have said no to the european union itself, its values and its values. the european parliament greatly appreciates your willingness, mr prime minister, to discuss today's debate, especially now that the cooperation of all 27 member states is needed to lay a renewed and future-proof foundation for the european union. the german presidency of the council, and in particular chancellor angela merkel, is currently fully committed to a common solution that can satisfy everyone: those countries which have not ratified the treaty, but also those 18 member states and thus the majority of the population of the european union which have already ratified the treaty. the european parliament is bound by the content of the constitutional treaty. we want the substance of the constitutional treaty to become a reality. this includes the necessary reforms and our common values. the european parliament will under no circumstances be satisfied with an outcome which is not in the interests of the european union and its citizens. mr president, we are aware that the citizens of the netherlands in particular have a great interest in making the european union fit for the challenges of the future and in working together to provide european solutions to global problems. with good will, i am convinced that in the coming weeks and months, the negotiations will not only lead to a compromise but also to a result for a european union that is capable of acting, democratic and transparent. mr. prime minister, i'm asking you to speak to us.
prime minister of the netherlands. president, members of the european parliament, commissioner wallström, commissioner frattini, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for inviting me to debate the future of europe with you. i would also like to thank president pöttering for his very useful visit to the netherlands on 12 april last. mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you very much for coming to the hague. we very much appreciated your presence and contribution to the discussion. it was an important visit. thank you! mr president, it is good to be back in your parliament and i have fond memories of the meetings with you during the dutch presidency in 2004. we had some very stimulating debates, and i got a lot of inspiration from them. but today i am here in a different capacity, namely as the representative of the netherlands. a pro-european country, that is. a country where the overall support for european cooperation has always been above average, and still is. at the end of 2006, 75% of the population supported membership of the european union. a country with an open economy, with a lot of prosperity and employment thanks to the opportunities offered by the single market. a country that wants to play an active role in the world is also witness to the dutch involvement in reconstruction missions in afghanistan and elsewhere in the world. the netherlands is dependent on cooperation. but the netherlands is also one of the two member states where a clear majority of the population said 'no' to the constitutional treaty in 2005, and you, mr president, referred to that. i know that a large majority in your parliament was in favour of the constitutional treaty. and i respect that. but whatever the opinion on the constitution, it is now necessary to find a solution together. a solution acceptable to all of us. a solution that meets the concerns of citizens who have been very visible in the netherlands and france. worries that live elsewhere: the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. i am sure, mr president, that bridges can be built. because the similarities in the visions of the future are greater than the differences. because we have a solid foundation of shared values, and shared interests. my vision of the future of europe begins with the recognition that the union is a rarely successful project. there is every reason to be proud of what we have achieved together in europe. europe, torn by major wars and sharp social contradictions, now has a model of cooperation and integration unparalleled in the world. a model characterized by balance. balance between economic dynamism and social harmony. balance between unity and diversity. the european model of decision-making respects the equality of the member states, but also that of the citizens. europe is a respected global player. an example to the world. because of our unique form of cooperation. because of our focus on solidarity. by binding our power. united by values and dialogue, not by conflict. europe has been renewed. the result is the european union. in world history, fifty years is a short period. europe is a young but mature structure with a great future ahead of it. step by step, building on our achievements, we will face new challenges. the commission has always been attentive to the expectations and concerns of the citizens. one of the main objectives of the new dutch government is to further strengthen support for european cooperation. to do that, it is essential to understand well why almost 62% of our population said "no" to the constitutional treaty. and to respond to it in the right way. i will first outline the background of the dutch "no" in the rest of my story. i shall then deal with the netherlands' position in the negotiations for a new treaty. in the 50 years between the treaty of rome and the berlin declaration, much has changed. the union of today is not only many times larger than the community of six of that time, it also has a much wider field of action. the enlargement is a historic success. it was the right choice. but we must also realise that after this great enlargement, the public needs time to get used to it. it all happened so fast. too soon for some. the sense of kinship among us must grow. in addition to a considerable enlargement, the union has also undergone a tremendous deepening in the last 15 years. the completion of the internal market, open borders, the euro, the many new policies in important areas such as the environment, security and justice. each one of them is a positive development. but there are also a number of new realities that have become commonplace for citizens. for example, the presence of european regulations in many areas is not always understood. and at a time when the citizens had not yet processed the enlargement and the deepening, we asked the citizens for their opinion on the constitution. the question 'do you agree with the constitution for europe?' was perceived by many as 'do you want europe to become a state?' or even 'do you want europe to eventually replace the dutch national government?' and that was clearly a bridge too far. the term "constitution" has a different connotation in each member state. to some, it is a symbol of democracy, of a restraint of authority. of course it is. but elsewhere - in the netherlands at least - the word 'constitution' has a very different connotation, a different meaning. a constitution is part of a nation state. a constitution says something about national identity. that is why the dutch insist that a new treaty is not a constitution. the symbolism of a constitution was an important factor in the dutch "no". there was a sense of loss of control, a fear of losing one's identity. but people want a government that's recognizable and close. people see a limit to what europe can do. people want to have control over the things we have to do together in europe. of course, there were more considerations for people to vote "no". some felt that europe was making too many rules, or doing too many things that we could better regulate at national level. others find the brussels administration too opaque and concerns about the dutch financial contribution also played a role. and people had too little vision of the concrete added value of european cooperation. if you allow that to affect you, then it is true that these issues can be partly resolved in a new treaty. on the other hand, we must be aware of these concerns - which are shared by many citizens of the union - in our daily policy decisions. we have already made a good start in that respect over the last two years. subsidiarity and less regulation are high on the agenda, also in brussels. there's more transparency. there is a budget that will allow us to do what we need to do until 2013. and we're setting the right policy priorities, like climate change and energy policy. this, mr president, members of parliament, is the merit of your parliament, of the president of the commission, josé manuel barroso, and of the presidents of the european council, tony blair, wolfgang schüssel, matti vanhanen and now angela merkel. it shows that europe is prepared to give priority to the concerns of its citizens. before i go into the issues that the netherlands is seeking in a new treaty, i want to stress something. a referendum was held in four member states. twice it was "no", twice it was "yes". in total, 18 member states said 'yes' to the constitutional treaty through their own democratic procedures. in your parliament there was broad support for the constitutional treaty. we cannot and will not go around that. but i hope we'll focus on the community. the similarities, not the differences. the dutch government wants to pursue a joint solution in a constructive manner. that is also very necessary for the future of europe. the points the netherlands is focusing on are directly related to the concerns of the citizens who have come forward in the last two years. no more, but no less. it is also necessary for the support for ratification of the new treaty. in this light, i think that, apart from the specific wishes of the institutions and the member states, there are two major common ambitions in the new treaty. firstly, we want to improve the democratic functioning of europe. secondly, we want to increase europe's ability to fight. europe's challenge has always been to set up its institutions in such a way as to do justice to both, sometimes contradictory, objectives as well as possible. the institutional balance achieved by the convention and previous igcs offers improvements. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the netherlands wants to maintain these improvements, provided that agreement on them can go hand in hand with a credible approach to citizens' concerns. i will outline in four points what the netherlands has to face in order to find a solution together. first of all: continuation of the successful method of treaty amendment: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the community. i have just explained to you that the symbolism of a constitution played an important role in the 'no' vote and that is why the netherlands, like amsterdam and nice, are calling for an amending treaty. that is a successful continuation of the monnet method: small steps forward, with concrete meaning. it highlights the improvements, the democratic guarantees, the increase in efficiency. that way we can have a positive debate and come out from under the shadow of the rejected constitution. in short: the name, the form and the content of the constitution are all things that need to be reconsidered. i come to my second point. the netherlands is very keen to improve the democratic functioning of the union. a key lesson from the referendum is that the dutch want to be sure that they are involved in the decision-making. they want their voice to be heard in europe. the institutional proposals of the constitutional treaty are a step forward. i am merely mentioning the rule that the european parliament always takes part in the decision-making process when the council adopts a majority decision. but improvements are possible. the subsidiarity test of european legislative proposals should give national parliaments a greater role. if a majority of national parliaments express a negative opinion, there must be consequences. the european parliament should not be deprived of the opportunity to involve national parliaments more closely. this review takes place at the very first stage of decision-making. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council. the european parliament will retain its full role in the codecision procedure. the commission's right of initiative is not affected. as you said to me the other day, mr president, the european parliament and the national parliaments are complementary. as democratic partners. i come now to my third point: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not only more democratic, but also more effective. and then we'll talk about the important issues of our time that people are concerned about: climate change, energy policy, the fight against terrorism and migration require a forward-looking common approach. the constitutional treaty contains important improvements, with more majority decision-making. but we can't help but notice that people are afraid of vetoes. fear of a stealth expansion of powers. that's why we need to be clear here. no action without support. we must therefore dare to take the step of majority voting where necessary. and i'm prepared to defend those choices. but only if the transfer of sovereignty is a conscious choice, surrounded by the right safeguards. the union's competences must be clearly defined. only then can we reduce the hesitation about transferring sovereignty. the netherlands will make proposals in this area. a related point has also been the subject of intense debate in your parliament. i am talking about the relationship between the internal market on the one hand and the freedom of movement of member states in the design of their public services on the other. there too, clarity can be brought about without prejudice to the internal market. i am in favour of a strong single market. citizens of all member states benefit from this. but in matters such as pensions, social security and education, member states want to be able to tailor the design to national circumstances. europe must provide space for this. for example, by establishing a number of criteria for services of general interest. and finally, my fourth point. i think it is right to include the criteria for enlargement in the new treaty. we have collectively had the wisdom to enlarge the union and i fully support that decision. it says something about the future of europe and the change after the divided europe of the post-world war ii period. but no one can ignore the doubts that citizens have about enlargement. in the netherlands, there is a perception that the union does not take its own rules seriously or not seriously enough. we have the criteria, but in the eyes of the dutch they are not strictly observed. this is affecting public support for europe. the criteria should therefore be incorporated into the new treaty. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has come a long way in 50 years. expectations are high. together, we can lead by example in tackling climate change, in fighting poverty and insecurity in the world. together we can unlock europe's economic potential in an increasingly integrated global economy. we must work together to ensure a reliable supply of energy and raw materials. we must work together to combat the inhuman waste of illegal migration and to do so we need a strong and effective european union. a union that enjoys the confidence of its citizens. i will defend in the netherlands a treaty which contains the four elements i have just outlined. because i believe the time is right. because i have great confidence in the presidency of angela merkel, and then josé socrates. and because i believe that together, we can take the next step. but above all because it is necessary to face the challenges of our time together. i recently came across the words of robert schuman, one of our visionary founding fathers, again. and i was struck again by its wisdom and correctness. in his statement of 9 may 1950 he said - and i quote - 'the unification of europe cannot be achieved all at once, nor can it be brought about by an all-embracing creation. the european union must be built on concrete achievements, based on genuine solidarity.' i think that schuman's words have not lost their relevance and can still be a guide for our common task of building europe. thank you very much. (applause from the left)
mr prime minister! i would like to thank you for this contribution and above all for your - we hope - determination to work together towards a good solution.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i will begin with a recent observation. mr president, you said that your government was in favour of a legal framework for services. thank you very much, tell that to the epp group, you have very close relations with them. she turned it down this morning. mr president, you made two remarks which i would like to take up, because i believe that you were the two most important remarks in your speech. i hope we focus on what unites us, not what divides us. that's an encouraging phrase. the netherlands has always seemed to focus on what divides us rather than what unites us. if it has been announced that jan peter balkenende and his government are prepared to compromise and not insist that the dutch 'no' must lead to an integral change in europe, if the dutch 'no' means that the constitution will not enter into force in this form but instead another comprehensive reform leading to the efficiency of the european union, and that jan peter balkenende is prepared to compromise for this and then defend it at home, then that was a good speech. (applause from the centre) that's why we'll measure you by it, because i was in rome and i saw it. we met there when you signed the constitution with a gold pen. as you know, i am a keen observer of dutch domestic politics. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the european constitution, and i am sure that the european parliament will be a very active participant in the debate on the european constitution. if you do better in the future, it's okay, it's over. europe must become more powerful, but not with 27 states on the basis of nice or 'nice minus'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe needs action! think of the situation in the middle east. the european union has a duty to help the palestinians, and to help the palestinians to help themselves. why is europe not on the ground with a foreign minister who could act? because the council is unanimous! this is what makes europe impotent! (applause from the centre) i have nothing against calvinist renunciation ethics. i hear you want no more flags, no more anthem and no more secretary of state. beethoven's symphonies have survived revolutions and wars. they will also survive the european constitution. (applause from the centre) the president of the european parliament has spoken the opening words of this debate in dutch. i want to do that too, mr president. as the minister of foreign affairs in the future, her majesty the queen of the netherlands is the high representative. when he's doing what he has to do. the decisive point is not the title, the decisive point is the substance of the task he has! (applause from the centre) i am a great admirer of the dutch people. the netherlands is a wonderful country with a great tradition, a country with a tradition of seafaring, and seafarers have always been courageous people. it was the dutch who first sailed around cape horn. that's why it's called cape horn. you've gotten on a ship today, or so i thought. they've set sail! my colleague goebbels has already raised the flag to half mast. i'm not that skeptical. i think you've been half-sailing today. if you pull it all the way up, the european parliament will blow in the wind, we can guarantee that. then you're sailing towards compromise, mr. bark end. mr prodi offered his willingness to compromise yesterday. mr prodi wants the constitution in its entirety. if you want half and you two meet between whole and half, then we'll get it in three-quarters. 75% of the constitutional treaty would be the constitution without the anthem, without the flag and a foreign minister with a different title. that would be a good result! (applause from the centre)
mr voggenhuber, with all due respect, we should be a little more cautious about the term 'nationalist' and 'lie'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, your government wants the symbols of the european union to be dropped from the european constitution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. mr president, every local association can give itself a flag and put it in its statute, but the eu with 500 million people should be denied that right? no offense, but that's prehistoric thinking and fooling around. the european union is an unprecedented historical project and not a state, let alone a superstate. it is therefore astonishing that such a bizarre idea should come from one of the founding members of the european community. i say to you that anyone who, 50 years after the signing of the treaties of rome, closes his eyes to the symbols of the eu that are known and accepted by all, is symbolically pouring water on the mills of those who question european integration per se and want to entrench themselves backwards in their own nation state. it is undeniable that the anthem and the flag unite our states and peoples. they create identity and therefore belong to the officially recognized. so, mr prime minister, please do not shake the citizens of europe, including those who have said 'no' in your country. the people of your country, my country and other countries do not want a flag fight, they want a social and democratic europe. they want an answer to the question: who is the union protecting? people or markets? they want action to be taken against wage, social and tax dumping. this is where you should start, this is where forward-looking solutions are needed. so stop your sham battles against the symbols of european unity. (applause from the centre)
prime minister of the netherlands. i would like to thank the members for their comments, mr president, after having said what has been said. mr president, let me begin by clearing up a major misunderstanding. i have heard some speakers, mrs kaufmann, mr voggenhuber, talk about things like the national anthem, the title of foreign minister, the flag, as if those were the points of the netherlands. that's not the point. i have indicated to you that the question is whether these symbols - which are beautiful and which i have nothing against - should be enshrined in a constitution. these are just examples of whether we want to work on a constitution or an amending treaty. that's the whole point. let's just cherish our symbols. it's just a question of whether you should take them. my story went much deeper. i reported that, too. i've tried to give answers to worries that live. and i indicated in my speech that we must think in terms of a treaty amendment, a subsidiarity test by the national parliaments. i'll say something about it. majority decisionmaking in relation to europe's powers and incorporation of the enlargement criteria. we were dealing with this kind of thing. it is not just a question of symbols, it is a caricature of the vision of the netherlands. i also listened carefully to the remarks on nationalism. i didn't understand that comment. in the debates we have had in the dutch house, even after the 'no' vote, i have made it clear that our future lies in europe. a positive message about the importance of europe in everyone's life. we cannot do without europe. that has always been my message and i do not wish to be associated with purely nationalist tendencies. that is why, mr president, the story is that europe is only an economy. you're referring to that. - of course i did. everyone says things. you're referring to the actions of a young media person. i would remind you, mr president, that when we were president of the european union, i said on several occasions that europe is much more than a market and a currency. and do you remember that i took the initiative to organize conferences on values in europe? i have put the question to the house: what makes us european? what are our common motives? what makes europe this continent? i am very much looking forward to the continuation of the debate on values in europe. we can't do without that debate. and don't tell me it was all about economics. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. mrs martens from the netherlands made an important comment on this. what is the ideal? what do you want to accomplish with each other? this then leads to a number of specific questions, which have also been raised here. i cannot answer all the questions, mr president. there's just too many of them. that's what makes time impossible. but let me just say a few things. one of the points that came up was the question of powers, of subsidiarity. i am firmly convinced that we must be clear on that too. mr duff was quite clear: the union shall have only such powers as the member states shall confer upon it. we must therefore clearly state that. the second question is the question of subsidiarity and proportionality in the exercise of these powers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is what is happening in the netherlands. the first and second chambers and the joint committee are concerned with what europe should and should not do. that's extremely good for commitment. for too long, debates have been avoided, postponed. and that's the way we say it now, the european parliament has a duty to ensure that national parliaments are fully involved in what is happening in europe. and if there are any criticisms, bring them up. we have, for example, made some remarks on the harmonization of criminal law in the fight against counterfeiting. mr frattini is involved in this. well, that's what you talk about. that is how national parliaments operate. in a broader sense, it is also good that the question of subsidiarity is also raised in the national parliaments. let us avoid national parliaments and the european parliament coming into conflict with each other. you have different powers, and you play your own role in democracy. let us not regard that as a sign of weakness but as a sign of strength. then the criteria of services of general interest. mr van den berg has spoken about this - he has also asked other questions. it is my firm belief that we must have a clarification. the way that happens, we can talk about that. at the same time i see mr maaten - we know each other well from the time we were together in the municipal council of amstelveen, a town near amsterdam, we have known each other for so long. i understand very well what you are saying about the internal market. of course, we have to look at that consequence. but i would say, in turn, that when we talk about pension systems, pension funds, education facilities, let us look at how the principles of the internal market work there. we need clarification on that and on the way in which it should be done, which we can of course discuss further. you have spoken - and i understand very well - about the importance of the charter of fundamental rights. and rightly so, because these fundamental rights are also part of the values that mr daul spoke about. the question is, and i agree with this, whether this should be included in a constitution or whether other methods can be used. mr president, we must find a solution to this. i have listened to you carefully and i have heard how important the subject is here. president. - it was a pleasure to hear mr dehaene. i appreciate his involvement at the time in the drafting of the constitutional convention and the convention and we also talked about business a lot. i am also glad that you understand the position that exists when a people say 'no' in a referendum. you have also indicated what is needed to find solutions. i would say that we should be a little more pragmatic, as mr maaten points out, but of course keeping the ideals we share. if we are to arrive at a solution, we must take account of the positions of both sides. that is precisely why, mr president, i have said here today that we must look beyond the existing positions, that we must not have a bloc in europe and that, in my view, this can be done by means of an amending treaty. i think it is therefore possible to find solutions quickly. mr president, there have been many comments. i find it difficult to go into them, but i have noted them well for myself. i listened carefully to what mr barón crespo said. you have spoken about - and i will end with this - the national anthems. you referred to the dutch wilhelmus, our national anthem, which indeed contains the phrase: "i have always honored the king of spain". but, mr president, the fact that it was said at the time that 'i have always honoured the king of spain' was connected with the fact that other things were happening in the netherlands on the spanish side. that led to a war of independence and an 80-year war. mr president, what a great time it is that we are now enjoying a time of peace and security for the first time in the history of europe. and that we can talk business in friendship. i remember so well when i was in madrid and visited the monastery where philip ii stayed. it was interesting to hear, in addition to our view of history, what the view is on the spanish side. that's the beauty of europe, you can be different. europe is a continent of diversity, but you also need unity. and i think it's a beautiful thing about europe that we have this cultural and religious diversity. that's what made europe strong. now, when it comes to the ideals we stand for, i say: let us use what has made europe strong: human rights, democracy, working on security. let's pull it up together, keep it sharp in the eyes. let us recognize national parliaments in their competence, let us let the european parliament do the work that needs to be done. i always find it incredibly stimulating to be here, because the european parliament is the symbol of a united europe. and i think it is good that national politicians are also debating with you. i found the debate with you today extremely stimulating. of course, you don't have to agree on every point, and of course i understand criticism. but there's more that unites us than divides us. and if we are guided by the european dream, mr president, then we will succeed in finding solutions to the problems that have arisen. together we can make a difference, together we can work towards that solution. (applause from the left)
for us as a parliament, the term nationalism should not have been used today because there is no basis for it. i would like to thank you sincerely on behalf of all colleagues for coming here today, and i wish you success in your policy so that we can find a way to preserve the substance of the constitution - the necessary reforms and also the values we are striving for. i would also like to thank the vice-president of the commission, mr frattini, and minister of state gloser. the debate is closed.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in nigeria.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution, signed by seven political groups, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the main objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) from 3 to 15 june 2007 in the hague by mr miroslav ouzký on behalf of the envi committee (o-0018/2007 - b6-0020/2007) and the oral question to the commission on the main objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) from 3 to 15 june 2007 in the hague by mr miroslav ouzký on behalf of the envi committee (o-0019/2007 - b612-01/2007).
the president of the council. i'm not aware of any lawsuits because it's all local. but i am quite clear - and i agree with my colleague - that it is not a question of protecting the environment and possibly restricting the freedom of movement of anyone, but of safety! i would like to say to all those concerned - and i strongly support the security staff who are involved in the control - that the increased passenger traffic, which is due to competition, is about safety and not about restriction. it is enough to have one, two or three who can potentially exploit these gaps, as we know from the events in the uk. it is right and important to review measures after a certain period of time to see whether they are achieving their objectives. it is not always necessary to regulate everything, but certain measures must be introduced, and in doing so citizens must also take a measure of personal responsibility. because there's so much information about it that the waste that is collected - from lighters to bottles over 100 ml - wouldn't have to happen at all if you thought about it a little bit before you took a flight.
the president of the council. the presidency considers that discrimination on grounds of race, ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation is incompatible with the fundamental principles of the european union. the eu institutions have repeatedly rejected and condemned it in all its forms. i would also like to refer to a debate in the european parliament a few weeks ago. the presidency also promotes freedom of assembly and association and opposes discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. i would like to stress once again that he is concerned about any increase in racist and homophobic violence in europe and the world. the european union, within the framework of the powers conferred on it by the treaties, is determined to pursue a clear policy of combating these phenomena both within its own borders and in its external policies. in the context of its external relations, the european union is actively engaged in combating discrimination, including discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, within the united nations. in 2006, for example, the european union actively and successfully campaigned for the granting of consultative status to the glbt groups in the committee on non-governmental organisations of the united nations economic and social council.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, my dear baroness! i know that there have been debates in parliament, and recently here with us. but i can see that a few months ago, at the end of last year, there was a demonstration for tolerance in poland. the commission has recently had occasion to demonstrate this. the presidency will always give due weight to such matters within the european union. we will certainly also be addressing issues beyond the sphere of influence of the european union in the dialogue, and specifically in the human rights dialogue between the european union and russia. i have no information at the moment on the cases of possible prohibition you mentioned last time, where the bus for equality is not allowed to enter or is not allowed to be presented. but i'm going to follow up on your suggestion. perhaps you can also tell us, the presidency, in which country this happened.
the president of the council. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. we share the concern expressed in your question about the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the north caucasus and in russia as a whole, and that is why we are continuously monitoring this development. in the context of the eu-russia dialogue, which i have just quoted in another case, the council regularly raises this concern towards russia. various levels of political dialogue have also been established to discuss the concerns with the russian side, at the level of the summit, ministerial meetings and the biannual human rights consultations, which were officially launched in march 2005 under the luxembourg presidency. in these consultations, the eu regularly expresses its particular concern about the situation in the chechen republic. the human rights consultations are now an integral part of eu-russia relations. the latest round of consultations took place on 3 may. the situation in chechnya was on the agenda. in this context, i would also like to mention that the tacis action programme for the social and economic reconstruction of the north caucasus, financed by the european union with 20 million euros, has now started, and that it has the appropriate means to bring about positive developments.
minister of state! the chancellor proved over the weekend that you can combine firmness and loyalty to principle with diplomatic skill. you do that here. my question is quite specific: what can be done to improve access to chechnya? are you active there? secondly, elections were held in chechnya under the supervision of the osce. the council of europe has done a lot. it's been settled. could the eu, as a community within the council of europe and the osce, press for new initiatives to take direct action in chechnya?
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is of course a very tempting subject for politicians because it is as broad a subject as the commission wanted. i therefore want to limit myself to the few most important points which the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has decided, and which have also been relatively uncontroversial. we felt that a well-functioning internal market created a favourable environment for innovation. a well-functioning internal market means for us an internal market without unnecessary barriers and without social distortions. we are in favour of better regulation of the sharing of scientific results, especially with smes, than in the past, because smes - as you have said, commissioner - have been the engine of innovation and creativity. smes were also the ones in germany and across europe who were particularly committed to training young people. i can already see a disaster coming if fewer young people are trained to work on our issues in a qualified way. we believe that better regulation can create unnecessary burdens for smes, but that it will also improve consumer confidence. we are in favour of speeding up the introduction of european standards, and of international standards beyond the eu, and we believe that reasonable, flexible rules in the field of public procurement could also help to improve an innovation strategy. we believe that information needs to be improved for smes and other institutions, and i am pleased to mention once again that the committee on regional development is planning to introduce a technology adviser. finally, two points which are particularly important to us: the promotion of innovation with social applications, because we believe that this is the future, and the need for this initiative of the commission to also improve the quality of life of citizens.
the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr gierek on his excellent report. it is good that we are talking about innovation, it is also good that we are using the broad term innovation here. we've neglected that for years. we have focused for far too long on research alone and not on the implementation of the results of our research. we have a report here at last which focuses on this. the broad concept of innovation also gives us the opportunity to gain a high level of interpretation in new areas. an example of this is the climate change debate, where we as europeans are actually creating new fields of innovation, especially by focusing on reducing co2. i think that's very good. that too is mentioned in your report. i would like to illustrate this by taking the example of the car market, where we are strong, where we are the global leader in the premium sector. it means we can set ourselves quite ambitious goals. that's not the problem. we are talking about reducing co2 emissions. but we must also accompany these objectives with research and concentrate on them. we're still a little weak on this. we can set ourselves ambitious targets, but to create demonstration markets we must actually accompany these targets. i can also mention the eit, the new european institute of technology. that's a good thing. i would like to congratulate the commissioner personally on the initiative he has taken with the cip, the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, which is now being followed by a separate innovation agency. this is an excellent initiative, commissioner. parliament - and i in particular as a former rapporteur - will support you on this issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. liverpool are playing milan tonight. two years ago, they were down 3-0. europe is lagging behind at the moment. we're behind, we need to catch up. you can do it, liverpool has proved it. that is why i am calling the liverpool trial today!
i'll pass that along.
the next item is the report by baroness nicholson of winterbourne on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on kashmir: current situation and future prospects (2005/2242 (ini)).
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. india and pakistan have fought three wars over the kashmir region. i am reminded of the dispute between germany and france over the region of alsace-lorraine, where we are now. there were three wars there too. however, after world war ii, germany and france decided to overcome confrontation and make cooperation the maxim of their policy. the successes of this policy can be seen in the european union today. the socialist group would like india and pakistan to make cooperation the topmost policy of their respective countries and to put confrontation behind them. the people of the kashmir region would have a tremendous advantage and the whole region would flourish. i believe saarc could become a similar success story to the eu. of course, peace flourishes best where democracy reigns. in this report we strongly criticise the lack of democracy or democratic deficits in the kashmir region and the many human rights violations. people are suffering on both sides of the line of control. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. we see that there is tremendous violence in the region. 80,000 people have been killed, and we have violence within the region, but also infiltration from outside. we must stop violent groups from crossing the border into the region. we are also calling on the military to respect human rights. we also call on the human rights commissions in both countries to investigate such violations and to bring them to justice. it is not possible for people to be kidnapped, tortured and killed without consequence. we believe that the european union should be committed to ecological and economic reconstruction. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i saw it myself. this commitment must continue. this report is apparently the first of its kind in the world on kashmir. i thank the rapporteur for her courage in putting a number of things in the report. we fought for months. i believe that this report is a help to the people of the region and also a help to the peace process between india and pakistan.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, baroness nicholson, for her report. i would also like to thank the colleagues who have helped to ensure that this difficult and very controversial report has moved clearly towards a compromise and that we have all made a great deal of progress. but i think we have a long way to go in this vote today, so that the report is in fact a report which serves the common purpose of not insulting india, pakistan or anyone else, but helping kashmir so that this region finally becomes a region of peace, a region of prosperity and a region where ecology and human rights are realised. we can make a significant contribution today if we all, together, jump over our shadows and focus on the core. it is a kashmir report, not an india or pakistan report. we are right to make similar reports. i would point out that some of the criticisms of india or pakistan in the report are without doubt justified. the example of pakistan in particular could be used to make some additional points. but this is not the place for a pakistan debate, this is a kashmir debate. kashmir has historically been a bridge and a junction between the regions of central, central and south asia. this region, which even led zeppelin sang for the rock music fans, can once again become a region where people from all parts of kashmir can live together in peace and prosperity. let us do our part today. this is the best contribution to counterterrorism that can be made. this region no longer needs the military. it needs fewer weapons, fewer military. then this parliament will send a signal to india and pakistan today: keep on the path of peace! do everything that makes the border less important so that kashmir will one day become a region of prosperity and peace!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is a statement by the commission on via baltica.
i am not going to go into detail. i invited garry kasparov to come to the european parliament on 15 april, when he had been detained for 11 hours and one of my staff was in moscow for other reasons, namely because of the estate of andrei sakharov. i'm glad garry kasparov was here yesterday and today, and i'm glad you're giving him and his friends in russia such a big endorsement. (applause from the centre)
we have just discussed this at the conference of presidents. i shall be flying to the middle east on sunday if i can stick to this itinerary and then seek the appropriate means of bringing this up.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the rapporteur recommends that the commission proposal be rejected. if you want to follow the rapporteur, you must vote no.
it is a report of the legal affairs committee. who better to give information on the legal situation than the legal affairs committee! the president does not feel able to correct a decision of the legal affairs committee on a point of law, although i also studied law a long time ago. that is why i have decided to vote on the report. after the final vote:
this is a question for the whole of parliament. since you are also a member of parliament, we shall meet there together. (applause from the centre)
ladies and gentlemen, i should like to welcome the members of a delegation from the kyrgyz parliament, chaired by mr matubraimov, who took their seats in the gallery. the delegation is in strasbourg to attend the fifth meeting of the eu-kyrgyzstan parliamentary cooperation committee. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) we are pleased that relations between our two parliaments have developed further since the entry into force of the cooperation agreement between the european union and the kyrgyz republic in 1999. i hope you have a pleasant stay in strasbourg.
in english the text reads: ‘urges the eu to take a firm stance in upholding the democracy and human rights clause ... examining the possibility of setting up a specific human rights dialogue with pakistan’. then comes the oral amendment: ‘as is already the case with india’.
it reads, ‘[…] cautions the european union and the international community that the kashmir dispute continues to represent a serious risk of conflict in the region and the wider world, […]’. the amendment reads, ‘[…] cautions the european union and the international community that the kashmir dispute has represented a serious risk of conflict in the region, […]’.
it might have been requested, but it is not in my papers. therefore we have to proceed as usual.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of human rights. it is not a question of media freedom at all, but of denouncing venezuela, a government which has repeatedly won overwhelming popular support in democratic elections, a government which is serious about fighting poverty and exploitation in its country, and which is, of course, also opposed to most european governments, whose neoliberal agenda is widening the gap between the top and bottom. in fact, it is more than time that the power of private media moguls and media conglomerates is challenged and that a truly democratic media culture is established, particularly in europe. instead of arrogantly interfering in the affairs of venezuelan media policy, it would be far more appropriate to take the example of the democratic and social demands of the bolivarian revolution. alternatives to neoliberalism are also possible in europe.
a writer. the commission is not damascus is one of the oldest cities in the world, and modern syria is an ancient cultural area where different peoples and religions have lived together for centuries, mostly peacefully. there is still a strong cooperation between muslims and christians. mr dess and i are particularly committed to interreligious dialogue, which has great potential in a country of the arab world which is not yet an islamic state and which is of great importance in the whole region. that is why it is all the more regrettable that a regime has been established there which, in the name of baathist nationalist socialism, harasses, persecutes, oppresses, makes show trials of the people, makes political prisoners, and this at a time when we need syria more than ever for peace in the region. i am not one of those who believe that syria should be completely isolated. this country has an ancient tradition. we must use this tradition to build peace. without syria, there will be no peace in the middle east, no peace in lebanon, and no solution to the problem of iraq. but precisely because that is the case, we cannot accept that human rights are being violated, that kurds and others are being oppressed for the most trivial of reasons, and that is why we appeal to syria to return to a policy of dialogue and cooperation, to which we are ready, but not with a regime that lacks the elementary willingness to respect democracy and the rule of law. a sensible foreign and security policy and a sensible economic relationship are impossible with someone who tramples on basic human rights. the european union is also very concerned about the situation in syria, and we are all aware of the seriousness of the situation.
a writer. the commission is not i agree with mr matsakis completely, except on one point. he says sudan is a poor country. that's right, i did. but potentially, sudan is an extremely rich country because of its oil wealth and many other things. but it is a country that is exploited on the one hand and where international forces and corporations have fuelled the war in darfur and elsewhere to further their respective energy interests. but sudan is also a country that is inflicting infinite damage on itself through a broken political system, not only through the conflict between north and south, east and west, christians and muslims, as is said over and over again in a generalized way, but through a myriad of individual conflicts. that is why we must insist that basic human rights be respected here. it has just been rightly said that we in europe reject the death penalty. the debate in poland was discussed. the death penalty is incompatible with membership of the european union and also of the council of europe. we know that. but of course, similar standards are slowly being developed in africa. the african union, which is still in its infancy, is called upon to develop human rights standards step by step - we know that this cannot be done overnight - and to implement them politically. we therefore call on the sudanese government not only to stop using the death penalty - especially against minors, which is particularly scandalous - but also to refrain from (a) misinterpreting sharia as it does, because these barbaric practices have nothing to do with the true sharia, and (b) also not to extend sharia to non-muslim populations. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet known whether the commission will be able to take a decision on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i speak on behalf of my group. the rules of procedure provide for three debates on human rights issues to be held on thursday afternoon within one hour, exclusively on cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. this is the fourth item, and it has nothing to do with democracy and human rights. we therefore consider that this is a breach of the rules of procedure: the conference of presidents has no right to ignore the rules of procedure either. that is why my group formally requests that this item be dropped now!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it has already been said that the rules of procedure deal with three subjects. no one can ignore that. in the matter itself - which the honourable member has just mentioned - the matter is already settled by his resignation. there is no point in bringing this up, because the gentleman involved has already drawn the consequences. but the rules of procedure say three, and we have already dealt with three subjects. the conference of presidents cannot ignore this either!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i did it!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is about paragraph 6 (a): 'calls for the abrogation of the state of emergency in syria established more than 40 years ago'. we would have liked to have included that.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 24 may 2007.
i am not going to go into detail. it is a great pleasure to welcome 18 bulgarian colleagues to the european parliament today, the first directly elected members of the european parliament to be in our midst. (applause from the centre) on 20 may 2007, the citizens of bulgaria went to the polls and elected their representatives to the european parliament in a democratic process. this was an important day for bulgaria, which became a member of the european union on 1 january this year. the overthrow of communism has brought bulgaria into the european family. it has taken more than 60 years to bring bulgaria back into the fold of free europe and to reunite our continent. bulgaria is an ancient land of culture, situated at the crossroads between east and west. it is said that one of the oldest states in europe was founded here in 681. bulgaria is the land of orpheus and eurydice, the home of the thracians and dionysus. bulgaria has a rich cultural and intellectual heritage and will contribute to the mutual enrichment of the european union and bulgaria. bulgaria and especially its people deserve special thanks for the efforts and the willingness to reform in recent years. great progress has been made, and many reforms have been implemented in a relatively short time. it is now up to our new colleagues to make sure that the further reforms still needed are carried out with the same determination. i wish you a speedy and successful introduction to the work of the european parliament, so that you can make a constructive contribution to the benefit of your constituents and europe through your work and your commitment. they will be the voice of the bulgarian citizens in the european parliament and represent their interests. let us work together to further develop our common europe. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. in consultation with the group chairmen and the whole of the european parliament - and i say this because i see barbara dührkop dührkop here among us - i would like to make the following statement on behalf of the european parliament: the terrorist organisation eta has declared the so-called ceasefire declared on 22 march 2006 to be over. in these difficult times, i would like to express my solidarity with the entire spanish people and its democratic institutions. the european parliament strongly condemns the use of force as a means of achieving any goal. today, more than ever, we call on all the member states to support the spanish authorities in their fight against terrorism, a fight which can only be waged on the basis of the rule of law, with the full force of the law and strong democratic institutions. we commemorate the victims of terrorism. we are united with them in compassion and solidarity. (applause from the centre)
thank you, mrs. field. we will take the measures you have suggested and do what is necessary. i'll tell you how we feel about it.
the next item is the report by enrique barón crespo and elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the roadmap for the eu constitutional process (2007/2087 (ini) (a6-0197/2007)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not have to repeat what my colleague, baron crespo, said, because i am a firm believer in that. the european union has led, as the berlin declaration states, to the most peaceful, free, socially and economically prosperous period in the history of our continent, starting with the western part. after the events of 1989 and the enlargement of the european union in 2004 and 2007, there is a great opportunity to ensure that the rest of the continent is included. the aim of this constitutional treaty is to ensure that the union of 27 also benefits from these achievements. we cannot allow this success story to be jeopardized. the 27 countries must be able to act and on an equal footing, and we should avoid europe being divided into different groups again. we must also consider this in the light of the challenges we face, challenges which none of our nation states can tackle alone: globalisation and the economic and social consequences that arise from it, the fight against terrorism, the shaping of our foreign and security policy. we know that energy and therefore energy security are not the competence of the european union today, but that this is a matter of the security of all our member states and we must therefore be able to act accordingly. the question of the foreign minister should also be raised. we must have a contractual organization which ensures that the unitary legal personality also gives the possibility of external action. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. this must be done in a transparent, democratic way so that we also have the legitimacy of the citizens. efficiency, transparency, democracy and civil rights are essential elements of a settlement to be decided at the summit and the igc. we must make it clear that this must be done in a reasonable balance between the institutions, also in relation to the national parliaments, which are supposed to play a more important role, particularly in the context of subsidiarity. we must ensure that it is clear that the european union is not a state and does not want to become one, but that where the member states say that we can do better together, the capacity to act is built up. this also means that we will accept and promote the identity of our peoples in the future. europe does not take the place of the nation states, but is a common organisation to make the nation states stronger together. that must be the appropriate starting point. we must also assume that there is equality between the big and the small, the rich and the poor in this european union. that is why the double voting system is so important, whereby each country, no matter how large or small, has one vote at a time. but it is also necessary to look at the rules of competence and, with the rules of competence, the principle of subsidiarity and the extension of majority voting, because we will not be able to fight terrorism and organised crime successfully if we do not have majority voting in the necessary areas, such as home affairs. but i also believe that this europe must be based on values. the charter of fundamental rights is an indispensable part of the european parliament. (applause from the centre) we must incorporate all this, and that is why legal personality and the abolition of the pillar structure are so important. the success story of the european union is based on the fact that we are a legal order in the areas in which we have competence, and that all this is done with the monetary system. the intergovernmental approach has always failed. the efta has failed and the european union has won because we have the monetary system. so we should not fall back on methods that have failed in the past. that is why we should support the german presidency. we should ensure that the necessary substance is provided and that all 27 nations and states are involved in this process, so that this becomes an intergovernmental conference with a clear, clearly defined mandate. the substance of the constitutional treaty must be guaranteed in order to negotiate only on the basis of this constitutional treaty. the constitutional treaty should also be in force until the next european parliament elections so that citizens can work with the new rights and decide for themselves who becomes president of the commission in the european elections in the future. this is a crucial step towards empowering citizens. i would ask you to give this house the approval it deserves for this strategy, which we adopted by a large majority in the constitutional committee. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, both of you, enrique barón crespo and elmar brok. it's nice to see you getting real young again when it comes to our future together.
the president of the council. mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr margot wallström, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr president, i do not wish to comment on the age of the two rapporteurs, but on the content of your two speeches. i would like to thank the presidency, you, mr barón crespo, and also mr elmar brok, for the road map in which you outlined the further course of the discussions on the constitutional process. the conclusions provide important support for the presidency's further action in the run-up to the june summit. the support of the european parliament is also essential for success and it is important to fully involve the european parliament in the discussion on treaty reform. as you have said, the proper involvement of the european parliament must therefore also be ensured in the forthcoming intergovernmental conference. mr president, i would like to thank you again for the good cooperation. the good cooperation is also reflected in the report presented today, which i consider to be balanced, as it strikes the necessary balance between an ambitious outcome for the european union and the necessary realism on this issue. we cannot and will not ignore the vote of the people in france and the netherlands, but at the same time the majority of member states want to preserve the substance of this treaty. i would therefore like to emphasize once again the special role of the german presidency. we're in the middle. we want a result that all the member states can accept, but of course also the european parliament. we must take account of the debate which has been taking place since the failed referendums, not only in the netherlands and france. we must take people's concerns seriously, but at the same time - as the debate has shown - there are many areas where people want more europe, more european union. in this context, there has been a lot of discussion recently about climate and energy, but also about the european union's common foreign policy and the fight against terrorism and crime. i am very concerned about one fact, which is confirmed by numerous polls: the majority of the people of europe are not against this european union. they want a european union that is capable of acting and efficient, that is focused on the essentials, that is able to solve the problems it is facing. it is also no secret that agreement has not yet been reached on a number of important issues. the future architecture of the treaties is discussed. i am not going to tell a secret when i say that there are proposals to return to a classical contract for amendments. the european parliament has also expressed its willingness to consider the presentation of the future treaties. i am counting on us to find a solution here that all the partners can share and that at the same time brings significant progress in readability and transparency for the citizens. the european parliament has always been a strong supporter of the charter of fundamental rights, as elmar brok has just said. it is therefore in agreement with the vast majority of member states in advocating adherence to the charter and in particular to the legally binding nature of the charter. (applause from the centre) the european union of 27 member states must become more decisive and more active in order to face the challenges of the 21st century. and it has been said - and here again there is agreement - that we want a more democratic and transparent european union. the vast majority of member states therefore wish to retain the essential substance of the present constitutional treaty. the majority of the members are of the opinion that the institutional package in particular cannot be opened, since this would be - if i may put it this way - the opening of a pandora's box. but progress on policy matters is also important. we want an outcome that all member states can accept, but this requires a willingness to compromise on all sides. i am counting on the common will to move europe forward together. in this situation, of course, the support of the european parliament for the german presidency's efforts to reach agreement at the june summit, as emphasized in the report, is particularly important to us. let me say a few words about the procedure and the objectives of the german presidency. as you know, the consultations have now entered the hot phase. the talks will now be led mainly by the president of the council, mrs merkel, but also by foreign minister steinmeier in person. mr steinmeier will be here tomorrow to inform you about the preparations for the european council in june. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. the european council will, and i believe it can, present these at a later stage. the european council in june will be held with the aim of setting out a clear content for the intergovernmental conference and a very precise timetable. the intergovernmental conference is to be politically concluded in 2007 under the portuguese presidency. the contract is to be signed at the beginning of 2008 at the latest. this would leave enough time for the treaty to be ratified in all member states and, importantly, before the 2009 european parliament elections. this timetable, which is also called for in the european parliament's roadmap, has been widely agreed in the talks so far. it would also be important for its implementation that the european parliament should give its opinion under article 48 before the summer break. but i repeat, as the presidency, we are in a mediating role. we need a result that everyone can accept. we are talking to all the member states, the european parliament and the commission. i know there is still a lot of persuasion and conciliation work to be done, but i am confident. if all 27 member states always speak of common challenges, as they did recently in the berlin declaration, then i assume that all of them, all 27, also want to succeed. (applause from the centre)
mr president of the council! i think i can say on behalf of parliament that we will deliver our opinion quickly if the rights of the european parliament are given due consideration. on this basis, we are prepared to cooperate in any way that is good.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, enrique barón crespo and elmar brok, because this report is in line with the debate we have had since the double 'no' vote two years ago. the message of this report is clear. the content of what has been negotiated, signed and accepted over the last three years, that is to say the content of the treaty, must be preserved, but it is beyond question that the presentation of this treaty may be changed. this means quite clearly that the european parliament rejects a mini-contract. we are also against the fact that this is just an institutional agreement, and that it is negotiated over a torso - a quarry from which this or that is cut - . we are very clear: this parliament will not accept a result of consultation which would entail less democracy, less transparency, less efficiency and less civil rights compared to the results we have approved. the irony of history is that the citizens of france, the netherlands and other countries are also in fact in favour of the new. eurobarometer surveys show that citizens want more democracy and more agency. they also want the new policies: energy policy, health policy, disaster prevention and mutual aid in the event of such events. that is why it is not acceptable that governments should now take away something which parliaments have worked out together with governments. we cannot and will not accept that. this is also a message to the intergovernmental conference. they cannot, on their own, without consulting this parliament, but also our colleagues in the national parliaments and the public, reach a result which is fundamentally different from the treaty we have been working on for the last four years. we want a 'contract plus' rather than a 'contract minus'. it has been said here that these issues, which have been discussed for two years, should be put on the agenda. we should talk about it. we always talk about the ones who rejected the contract. we also need to talk about the many who have already agreed. it cannot be about getting a result at any cost. we will not agree to that. it has to be a high-level result. we wish the german presidency every success in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the presidency must square the circle at the summit! the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union. the only starting point for negotiations can be the present text of the constitution. it bears the signatures of all 27 heads of state and government. two thirds of all member states, which also represent the majority of the union's population, have ratified it in accordance with their constitutional requirements. i would like to express my support for paragraph 11 of the report: any outcome of the negotiations which would result in less protection of fundamental rights, less democracy, transparency or efficiency than the constitution is unacceptable. this is especially true for a less social state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this also applies to the values set out in article 1 (2), which defines the union as a community of values. it is good that our parliament is showing a red card to all those who want to retreat backwards into their own nation state in the winds of the 'no' from paris and the hague. the ridiculous feint of fighting against the symbols of european unity must be stopped. the people of europe do not want a flag or anthem battle, they want bold, forward-looking solutions. this is why we need a 'constitution plus' solution, especially to strengthen the european social model!
i would like to thank mrs kaufmann very much. i would like to make a small comment: when i visited the knesset last week, i was greeted with the european anthem and a band. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
thank you, thank you. and all this until christmas, reinhard rack!
the president of the council. mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs who have provided the basis for today's debate. at the same time, i welcome the - as i see it - broad support for this draft european constitutional treaty, for which we still have a long way to go. in the beginning, mr méndez de vigo quoted hemingway's example of the fisherman and the big fish, of which only the scales remained. the fisherman may have lacked the technical skills to bring the large fish safely and alive into port. but we, who face great challenges today, have all the options. we have realised that this european union must take a different approach to the question of decisionmaking, to issues which are different today from those of 10 or 15 years ago. it would be a pity if this work, which has been done in recent years, were suddenly to be disapproved of. i say quite consciously, even as someone who has only worked as a member of parliament in the past, that it is wrong to use the wrong words in such a debate. no one is forced to do anything. it was the will of parliamentarians and parliaments, after the experience of nice, to convene a convention in which many parliamentarians and parliaments wanted to work together to create a new treaty. it was expressly requested that parliamentarians and parliaments of states which were not yet members of the european union should also take part. today, it is not right to give examples of something being forced on us. it was in keeping with the democratic will that characterizes this european union that these countries were included in order to avoid a treaty being imposed on them. in the last few days it has been said time and again that the german presidency of the council wants to succeed. of course we want to succeed, but not for ourselves, but for this european union, because on 25 march we recognised the challenges we face and the need for new opportunities in the fields of climate change and energy. and if we want this european union to show more solidarity on climate and energy, we need the appropriate means. so thank you for your support! we hope - as one of our colleagues has said - that the heads of state or government will agree on a clear mandate for an intergovernmental conference with a time limit.
thank you very much, minister gloser. we wish the german presidency success for our common europe. if europe is successful, so is the presidency. then everything is almost perfect.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, two women are always present at our discussions on a new institutional settlement and a new treaty: mrs merkel, who represents hope for a way forward, but also pandora and her box, which we hope will not be opened. you will remember that the one thing that remained in pandora’s box was hope. when everything else had escaped from the box, there was still hope. we have to hope for a new settlement. we also have to use the window of opportunity we have right now. i was looking at our visitors, our guests and spectators, and wondering what they thought about this debate. do they think it is a matter of weighing ‘no’ votes against ‘yes’ votes or of us trying to explain why it is so important to maintain the political investment that has gone into finding a way to take european union decisions in a more efficient, open and transparent way? this is what nobody wants to lose at the moment. we do not want to lose several years of discussions and negotiations and the time invested in this whole process, because we want to give the european union a stronger voice on the global scene. we want to decide who does what, following the enlargement of the european union from 15 to 27 member states within a few years, and we need to decide on the policies, the new challenges facing us on energy, climate and migration. it has to do with the way we work, take decisions and act together. this is what we need to resolve: we are discussing institutional matters because they go hand-in-hand with the policy content. we have invested too much simply to lose it all. we hope that the german presidency will help us find a solution and we in the commission are willing to help. we hope that, with everyone’s help, citizens will feel informed and we will have been able both to listen and to explain clearly what we want to do. together we can do that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the statements by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy and the commission on the middle east.
- i'm not going to. i made a similar demand to the knesset last wednesday - a week ago today. the fact that the knesset is being asked to do this is something that needs to be considered very carefully. we hope that we will be able to reach a solution to all the issues, including the release of the three israeli soldiers and the bbc journalist alan johnston. all sides have to move.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that exactly one week ago the quartet met in berlin and, as i am sure you have already read the document which was circulated that evening, you can know our solidarity with the members of the palestinian authority, of parliament, who have been arrested and, as the president of parliament has very well said, with other people who are also now being held against their will in the territories of israel or palestine. mr president, i would like to make a brief statement. i have been asked to be no longer than 10 or 15 minutes - i will try to do that - and i want to tell you that i have just returned from a long trip throughout the region, where i had the opportunity to meet the most important regional leaders and to analyse the situation in order to also inform the quartet, which met last wednesday. i had the satisfaction of making that trip at about the same time as the president of parliament, with whom i was in telephone contact, and also with a distinguished group of members of parliament, who have written me a letter to which i have not yet replied. i would like to welcome them personally because, believe me, i have not been in brussels a single day since then. i shall see if i can be present and receive them and we can talk in peace about these matters, which i think are very important, which have been raised. mr president, i believe this session is of special importance. it is also a very important date for palestine, for israel and for the citizens of the world in general and of the arab world in particular. these days we are living through the 40th anniversary of the outbreak of the 1967 war, of which we are still suffering its many bad consequences. no doubt, when one looks at these forty years one's heart trembles in a certain way. it has been forty years of occupation, of suffering on both sides, of violence, in which the citizens of both palestine and israel have suffered greatly, and forty years in which there has also been excessive settlement by israel in the occupied territories. in the face of this forty-year situation we have two opportunities or ways of dealing with the situation: to look back and try to learn from the mistakes that we will not make again or to look forward and try to see if we can learn the most important lesson of all - that the only solution to solve this conflict that has lasted forty years is peace. a swift peace process that leads swiftly to peace. there have been many trials, there have been many missed opportunities for peace. i think that today we should all have the will - the will to act, not just the will to think and say, but the will to act - so that we can really make peace a reality in those lands so dear to many of us and to europeans in general. i would therefore like to look ahead, but i cannot help but reflect briefly on what this trip has meant, because the areas i have visited are areas, all of them, which unfortunately are not experiencing the best of times these days. in the occupied territories, in palestine, we are living through difficult times of intra-palestinian violence and also of renewed violence between israel and palestine. the calls for a ceasefire made by the parties have not been heeded either in palestine or between palestine and israel. i would like to call today on all those who may have responsibilities in this regard to bring about a ceasefire as soon as possible, so that a climate can be created which is conducive to progress towards peace. i had the opportunity to visit gaza - and so did the president of parliament. visiting gaza these days is a really important experience. it is not the first time i am going to gaza, but it seemed to me that being there these days in particular and meeting the president of the palestinian authority was a moral obligation so that there would not be the impression that the world was completely forgetting what was happening in gaza. gaza is in a difficult situation, with violence between palestinians, violence that must not, if it continues, lead anywhere. so the first thing we have to do is to try to calm the violence, to have a ceasefire and for all the palestinians to be able to start working together for a common cause which is, without a doubt, peace: peace with their neighbours and peace among themselves. we are doing everything we can in this policy, both from my point of view and from the commission's point of view, with the help it is generously giving. i want to tell you that the situation in palestine, from the economic and social point of view, is dramatic. i therefore believe that as soon as these days are over and we have the possibility of meeting again in a clearer and more transparent way with the political leaders, we will have to think about making a special aid plan for gaza. otherwise we may find ourselves in a really difficult situation in gaza, which will be difficult to recover for a genuine peace process. i would also like to say that i believe that the solemn appeal made by president abbas yesterday, on the anniversary of the start of the 1967 war, deserves to be read and analysed by the whole world, because it has a value and a moral courage that i think are worthy of being remembered. you will allow me to tell you also that i was in israel. i met with the prime minister, the foreign minister and i was also in sederot, the area most heavily bombarded by the kassam rockets. it seemed only right, too, to show our solidarity - european solidarity - with all those who are subjected to some form of violence, including the violence of the kassams. i lived there some hard, difficult moments too, but, in any case, one has a clearer awareness of what is happening if one really lives it on the ground. i would like to say that in our statement last wednesday the members of the quartet called for restraint on the part of israel. israel is also going through a difficult political situation. the primary elections in the labor party are not over yet - they are about to end - and we will see what the configuration of the next government may be, if any changes, after the elections in the labor party of israel. i would also like to say that the quartet declaration contains a clear - and also strong - call for the transfer of resources from israel to the palestinian authorities. the international community can do a lot and, in fact, we are doing a lot. we europeans are probably doing the most. the arab countries have also begun to give money to the minister of finance, salam fallad, and today we can say that he is beginning to have the possibility of constructing a budget from the point of view of the palestinian national authority. but without the transfer of resources from israel to palestine, all the rest of what we can do from the international community is little. the fundamental way to improve economic conditions is linked to a transfer of resources from israel to the palestinians. i shall now briefly reflect on the quartet, and then i shall briefly reflect on lebanon. i think that the quartet meeting last wednesday in berlin was, from my experience - and it is many years since i joined the quartet as a founder - probably one of the most important meetings we have had so far. it was a quartet in which we had the opportunity to reflect seriously on how to set in motion a peace process. if you read the last paragraph of the declaration, you will see that it is a paragraph that really looks to the future and commits the members of the quartet to start working firmly, in collaboration with the parties - israel, palestine, the arab states - to start a peace process, to start a process with a political horizon. i want to announce that, for the first time in its history, the quartet is going to go together to the area, it is going to have a meeting in the coming weeks with the palestinians and the israelis and it is going to have a meeting also with the arab countries, which, with the arab peace initiative, i believe are also cooperating in the beginning of the normalization of life or the beginning of the possibility of normalization in the territories between israel and palestine. i therefore believe that at this moment, in the discouragement that may be felt by many people, in the discouragement that may be felt by the palestinians and also by a certain section of israeli society, the international community, through the quartet, is reacting in the opposite way: it is reacting with hope, with the feeling that after 40 years we have a moral obligation to make every effort to move towards a formalization of peace, towards a peace process. i want to tell you that these weeks are going to be really key to trying to get a movement on the track that can take us from the current situation to a political process that can lead us to peace. it is not so difficult to find out what elements can lead this process to peace. most of us have in our head what parameters around which peace can be found. what we have to do now is to get to work on it in cooperation with all the members of the quartet. i would like to stress the cooperation which our proposal has received from the secretary-general of the united nations, the us secretary of state and the russian foreign minister, who have shown a clear willingness to support the ideas which, on behalf of europe, i had the privilege of presenting to the quartet. so, ladies and gentlemen, we are living through a really important juncture, from the point of view of the situation on the ground, but also a positive juncture towards a peace process which we can begin to see being built or drawn on the horizon. ladies and gentlemen, i cannot let this time which the presidency has granted me pass without saying a few words about lebanon. lebanon is once again going through a very deep crisis. your honours are well aware of this. these are very profound moments, some of which come from behind. since the assassination of former prime minister hariri, the whole situation they have been going through over the summer, the current situation of political paralysis, which has become more serious with the movements that have appeared, with acts of terrorism, in the refugee camps; in two refugee camps, specifically: one to the north and one to the south. as you know, there has been a reaction from the lebanese army which i would describe as patriotic, and patriotic has been the support that the lebanese army has found in all the political formations in lebanon, which is something truly extraordinary considering the differences that have existed in the last months, weeks and days between the various lebanese factions. we hope and wish that peace will also come to lebanon, that the special circumstances which have taken place in recent days - which were also accompanied by the approval by the united nations security council of the creation of the international criminal court to try the crimes committed in lebanon - will make it possible to reach an agreement between all the political forces to unblock the political process in lebanon. that is our wish, and to make that wish come true we are cooperating in the best possible way. mr president, i shall now make good the time i have been given and i would like to repeat the first words in my last speech: there is a moment of hope, a moment which we must be able to seize, which must somehow close a cycle which began forty years ago and which we hope to see closed, for peace, for the coexistence of two states - israel and palestine - in a peace which is inclusive of the others - syria and lebanon - so that we can see the re-emergence of a middle east which can be more hopeful for all, prosperous and which can contribute in a constructive way to peace in the whole region. for europeans it is an undertaking to which we cannot close our eyes and be assured that mine, at least, will always be open. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank you, mr javier solana, for your tireless work and your great commitment. i can say that your experience was my experience. we must not allow ourselves to be discouraged from continuing along the path of peace.
member of the commission. mr president, as we all know and as mr solana has just said, the atmosphere in the region is extremely tense. i would even say that there is even a sense of despair. my director is still there and he has just called me. unfortunately, security has deteriorated and we are witnessing a vicious circle of violence, particularly in the occupied palestinian territory, in israel and in lebanon, as mr solana has just said. if the causes of this despair are not addressed, we may very soon witness the consolidation of more radical groups throughout the region. i think this is the great danger there. in lebanon, as mr solana has just said, fighting has now spread to other palestinian camps. we are therefore deeply concerned that the confrontation between the lebanese armed forces and the islamist insurgents is there. this has turned out to be the most serious internal conflict since the end of the civil war and has already cost over 100 human lives. i would like to stress once again our full support for the legitimate government of lebanon. i would, however, repeat our position that everything possible has to be done to avoid further casualties among the civilian population. the relief agencies must be able to carry out their work. on the other hand, i would also like to express my satisfaction with the adoption of un security council resolution 1757, which secures the establishment of a special tribunal on the assassination of former lebanese prime minister rafiq hariri. i think this will allow the people of lebanon to affirm respect for the law and the rule of law in their country and to turn a page on one of the most tragic events in lebanon’s recent history. the meeting due to take place in gaza tomorrow between president abbas and prime minister olmert has unfortunately been cancelled, but at least the leaders of the g8 will tomorrow be tackling the issue of the palestine-israeli conflict, as we did at the g8 foreign ministers’ meeting. there was the greatest concern about the political and security developments both in gaza and in israel, but also recognition that there is no alternative to continuing this humanitarian support and, on the other hand, to exploring how to support this arab peace initiative. even at this very delicate and difficult time, we believe that there is still some reason for hope, because the israeli initiative is a unique opportunity for a comprehensive solution. we know that the egyptians too are trying to broker a ceasefire with all the palestinian factions. us involvement, particularly the involvement of condoleezza rice, is very valuable at this difficult time. our eu presidency is also very committed. the quartet has done exactly as mr solana has said, i think it was a very good meeting and the idea is there for both the bilateral track and the regional track. hopefully the meeting can come about in egypt with arab league interlocutors and hopefully also with the two parties. two days ago i spoke to the jordanian foreign minister, mr abdel ilah al-khatib, who is planning, with his egyptian counterpart, to visit israel before the arab league meets with the quartet at the end of june. we hope that this will help to further engage israel and encourage it to respond positively to the arab peace initiative. last week i also attended a conference in vienna on the role of women leaders as contributors to peace and security in the middle east. prominent women, such as tzipi livni, hanan ashrawi, condoleezza rice and others, discussed the potential contribution of civil society, of women in society, to peace. even if it is a small contribution, this was the first time that tzipi livni and hanan ashrawi had held discussions at the same table. i must say that there was quite a lot of mutual understanding and there was even a friendly atmosphere. the initiative proved to be another useful part of this very difficult process. i plan to organise some sort of follow-up meeting in brussels, perhaps next year. we very much appreciate the european parliament’s involvement: the visit by the ep delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council was followed by your visit, mr president, and by your very balanced speech in the knesset on 30 may. it is encouraging that the speech, as you said, was quite well received by the knesset. this is not an easy opportunity. the palestinian people desperately need a political perspective. we, the members of the quartet, are all clear on that. this is why we must press for negotiations on a final status issue, cooperating with the structures set up by the arab league. the arab league asked israel to free certain measures also related to the occupation, for instance the settlements and the separation barrier. i was very encouraged by president abbas’s call for an immediate end to this internal violence, because qassam rockets from gaza have to stop once and for all. the ceasefire should indeed be extended to the west bank. i very much regret that tomorrow’s meeting between prime minister olmert and president abbas had to be cancelled, but we apparently have to realise that the two sides could not reach agreement on abbas’s plan for a ceasefire, in particular on linking the ceasefire in gaza with the cessation of military operations in the west bank. no agreement was possible, either, on unfreezing palestinian clearance revenues withheld by israel before the release of the kidnapped soldier gilad shalit. we had hoped for some movement on this. the palestinians decided that they could not risk this meeting, but of course we had all hoped that this would give a little more progress on the dialogue on the ceasefire, progress on the transfer of revenues and on movement of access. regarding the national unity government, in my opinion now is certainly not the time to give up on it. i can agree that it has not yet delivered everything we were hoping for, but there are no attractive alternatives. if we allow this government to crumble, the implications for the institutions of the palestinian authority are very grave and radical splinter groups may be strengthened as a result. i think this is the last result we would want. as you know, within the limits set by the council of ministers, the commission has responded quickly to the national unity government and to the increased needs of the palestinians. in the first half of 2007 alone, we committed eur 320 million of community funds, which almost equals the total amount of funds committed last year. this exceptional effort shows that, since the formation of the national unity government, we have stepped up our emergency assistance to the palestinians. but the financial situation of the palestinian authority is extremely grave, as salam fayyad told my colleague yesterday. they still need us to go on even with this mechanism. israel must release the withheld clearance revenue to the palestinian authority. i think we therefore will have to go on encouraging them to do so via the temporary international mechanism or through the plo account. we reiterated this request at the last association committee with israel in jerusalem on 4 june. the quartet has also noted the importance of the resumption of transfers to improve economic and humanitarian conditions in the west bank and gaza. as i said, movement is of course essential in any case. since the formation of this national unity government, we have been working very closely with the minister of finance. because the socio-economic situation is so dire, we will extend the tim until 30 september and we must look for fresh funds for this new extension. i will soon ask the european parliament and the council to make another effort and to find additional resources in the budget. i thank you for whatever you have given as support in the past and do hope that this support will also be extended to us in the future, because our priority task should be to help restore the institutions of the palestinian authority so that it can then deliver services to the palestinian people. we are trying gradually to shift towards a resumption of institution-building and development projects, and to decrease our current concentration on emergency and humanitarian aid if we can do so – of course, this condition is still there. we look forward to new palestinian proposals. they said they would come up with ideas for specific international support. the palestinian authority is currently preparing an operational plan which could then be a useful tool for identifying development activities, particularly in gaza, that we could support. i would also like to say that the financial deficit of the palestinian authority is so large that it would be impossible for the community to shoulder the burden alone. arab states also have to deliver on their commitments to help the national unity government. i was encouraged to see that the plo account established now was at least used by saudi arabia, qatar and the united arab emirates. this will help but it is not sufficient. (applause)
i would like to thank commissioner ferrero-waldner very much. i would also like to thank you very much for your commitment to this difficult peace process - if it is still possible to speak of it at all.
thank you, francis wurtz, for referring to what i said before the knesset.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. none of us question the right of israel to exist. we are aware of our political responsibility. i would like to remind you of the statement made at a peace congress held in palestine in recent days. women, that is, a part of civil society, palestinian and israeli women, have sent us a clear message: you talk about coexistence between the two states. that is good, but please take note that our existence is in danger, in palestine and gaza. i think it's primarily a question of existence now. that is why i am glad, javier solana, that you said we should consider whether we should review the experience in lebanon as soon as possible and possibly engage in gaza. we must act before the situation completely unravels, because there will not be many options left. what you described as the courage, the hope that we need to have to continue to engage and to explain this to the people on the ground, this hope in the region itself has been reduced to a minimum. i would like to thank mr pöttering on behalf of my group for making this trip. you said the situation in gaza is unacceptable. it is our duty to be more involved than ever in the right of the people there to exist, and that of course includes criticising hamas for its double-dealing. the declaration made by hamas on the 40th anniversary of the six-day war is unacceptable to us. but we must also cooperate actively with the unity government. we're not gonna get another chance in the future. i share the criticism that véronique de keyser has just made: we as the european union have made mistakes in the region. we have bitterly disappointed the hope and the will of the people to look ahead. i hope the middle east quartet is awake now. i hope it will be active, and i hope the trips to the region will take place. this may be our last chance to actually talk about the hope of peace.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's good news that the quartet is now planning to perform together in the region. this is one of the important messages, because the quartet - we have said this many times in this house - has the credibility to provide the necessary guarantees of security on all sides. none of its members can do this from the point of view of the regions alone. i would like to congratulate you on this achievement and on being able to join the arab initiative. if we want to move forward - and we have discussed this so often - and not fall into the despair of hopelessness, one thing must be clear: on both sides, the moderates must be able to create the conditions at home for a basis to start a peace process that will not be crushed by the provocations of the respective minorities on the other side. that's why we need to put in those positions. of course it's right that israel has to release the money. it is also true that this patchwork situation in the west bank, which is stifling any economic development in its infancy, is being eliminated - controls and settlements everywhere - and that a basis for economic development has been restored. we can put as much money into it as we like, but we simply have to create the right conditions. but it must also be said that what is happening in gaza is a civil war between palestinians. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is clear that all these are connected, but please, everyone is responsible for his own area. we cannot accept that responsibility. that's why we must say: no more civil war. anyone who tries to resolve conflicts between rival factions by military means destroys the chances of his own people to survive. we must therefore ensure that the starting points are sought at this point and that we create the basis for the quartet to work successfully and that we have a real chance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. this parliament has always accompanied the process of reform of the united nations in a constructive manner and in the spirit of effective multilateralism. we want a strong un, we want security and stability, we want effective poverty reduction, we want effective protection of human rights. as chairman of the working party on relations between the european parliament and the united nations, i am personally concerned about this. when the human rights council was set up as a new instrument, we very much welcomed it, because the promises were very positive: a real election of the members, sound working procedures, the general periodic review of all members. what about today? our resolution is very critical: angola, qatar and egypt join countries like china and cuba, and there is virtually no choice between different candidates. we barely managed to stop belarus. the organization of islamic countries has the majority in both the asian and african regional groups. it is a fact that the council is being controlled and blocked, from the country reports to the general review. commissioner, i am very much looking forward to the fate of the package presented yesterday. i hope we can be optimistic about that. one of your remarks is really important. we can easily be voted down as the european union, as you said. the question is: has the west not done its homework? the question is for the council, or better still, for the member states. you were pulled over the negotiating table and you didn't even notice. it was clearly the fault of our governments. but we as parliamentarians must also ask ourselves whether our control and that of our national colleagues was sufficiently rigorous. i mean, no! this proves once again that we parliamentarians cannot leave the united nations to governments. we must strengthen the parliamentary dimension of the un. mrs ferrero-waldner, i am very pleased with your critical view of the first year of this human rights council, because the council has not lived up to the expectations that were placed in it. but this institution exists and it remains the most important international forum. we have to work with it, and i hope we can find a way out of this impasse. i am glad, moreover, that we are holding this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is important to recall the images we have all seen in the newspapers and on television. these were ships that were spotted from the air, and then when the rescue operation was launched on the spot, the ship was gone 53 to 57 dead. we are talking about other cases where almost all the dead were rescued on such ships, we are talking about children, babies, many unknowns and therefore a terrible tragedy, something that must shake us. i would therefore like to express for them, on the one hand, that europe must be hit at the heart of this question. it's about basic rights, about our foundation of values, about the right to life. today, the debate is not about migration, not about who we let into europe or who we don't let in, but about deeply humanitarian issues. i would therefore like to say that values do not ask for borders, values are indivisible for us and we as europeans must apply them! secondly, i would like to stress that european solidarity - as has already been mentioned by many colleagues - is now seriously needed. leaving malta as a very small country and many other countries on the southern border alone and then pointing the finger at them is not the right way to go. no, it is a european issue! i find it a pity that this tragedy is hardly reflected in the media of central and northern europe, that people there are not interested in it. we must act now! i would therefore like to suggest, commissioner, that the epp should discuss the budgetary lock-in if this money is needed. i ask the council - mr secretary of state, mr peter - not only to take decisions but to act now. decisions do not save these people, they are saved only by action. i therefore ask very specifically that this humanitarian catastrophe be made one of the main topics of the council meeting next week.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we often suffer in debates on europe from the fact that people do not show much enthusiasm for the european project. what we are doing now on the subject of prüm is a major contribution to winning a little more support from the citizens of europe for this european project. this is because this initiative by the council and the cooperation between us and the commission have not only made it possible to talk about but also to achieve very concrete improvements on an important issue - namely the threat to humanity posed by terrorism and organised crime. we have discussed this on various occasions here in parliament and in the committee responsible and have noted that there is an urgent need for action on the issue of crossborder police cooperation and we have repeatedly regretted that we are not moving any faster or at all. we know that in the case of dna matching or fingerprint matching, we can increase people's safety by sharing information. i am therefore extremely pleased that the proposal to incorporate parts of the prüm treaty into a european legal framework has gone some way. i also say in all clarity that i wished for more. we have already gone beyond the debates we had before. i would also say that our group would not have gone so far in some places on the question of the detailed weighting of data protection, because we believe that these additional decisions would not have been necessary because they are already recognised in the prüm treaty. but when you put it all together - and the rapporteur has pointed this out - we have decided to support the project as a whole, even if there are still some reservations. it is important that this project comes to fruition and that it is a success. it will succeed in strengthening europe's image among its citizens!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have heard a very elaborate statement on the vis and anything i can say will only dilute the good that has been said. i should like to concentrate on the prüm treaty. i agree with mr reul that a useful instrument has been created here. what i did in the past in the way of civil and legal aid, which is to ask for data that i can now exchange digitally, is quite reasonable. there is not much to say about the aim and the idea. i am afraid, however, that we are making three cardinal mistakes, namely in the area of internal security, in the area of internal affairs and justice and in the area of the third pillar. we believe that speed is a virtue in itself. we don't take the time to think about whether things actually work or how we can make them better. we have heard a few things today about transparency and democracy - as far as the third pillar is concerned, at least as far as parliament's participation and information is concerned. but what i want to say above all else is that the exchange between germany and austria is working. we know that there have been successes. but take the 27 member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. we do not know whether it is technically feasible in this form. the other point is that the data, especially fingerprints or dna data, are stored in different member states for different reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. another issue is the cost. the member states are still paying, but i think that in case of doubt - we must see how we can agree, i know for example that poland does not agree - some of the money could be transferred to the community budget. i have read, if i remember correctly, a document from the presidency of the council which estimates that the cost to germany will be approximately eur 900 000. i wonder why the british house of lords estimates in its study that the project will cost the uk some 35 million euros. the evaluations in this case cannot be so different! if we had not had such an excellent committee secretariat and such an excellent staff, we would not have gone one page further in our assessment of the prüm treaty and the parliament's opinion on it. i would like to ask the following in conclusion: you've heard enough times that the procedure has been called into question here. it is also not in keeping with the principle of better regulation of the democratic involvement of a third institution. let us work together in a clean and reasonable way in future, and not in this way - even if you have the formal opportunity to put pressure on us beyond the three-month deadline - as was the case with the prüm treaty. it is not good for the climate either when a very senior official of the council presidency in the committee on civil liberties, when asked what happens to parliament's amendments on prüm, replies: 'so if we take them into account and open up the package that has been put together with the member states, we will not get any further than that!' this is not a good partnership. otherwise, mr. altmaier, you know i appreciate you.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to make a few comments on the visa information system. we certainly need it. i would also like to say that i still have some reservations about the actual design of the vis. they concern in particular the widespread introduction of biometric data. we still have no concrete impact assessment and it is not clear whether such a large amount of data can be handled administratively. this is a crucial issue for data security and, above all, for the fundamental rights of each individual concerned. i also see problems with regard to the access of security authorities to the vis in the context of police and judicial cooperation, because there is still no adequate harmonised data protection within the third pillar. the text now presented by the german presidency of the council is, in my view, far from what parliament originally proposed in september 2006 and is still far from the level of data protection in the first pillar. i therefore cannot support the regulation and the resolution and will abstain in the vote. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their cooperation.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the legal basis for the visa information system, which will be voted on tomorrow, is one of those cases which have finally been brought to a successful conclusion after hard work on the part of all concerned and after long negotiations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the exchange of data on visa applicants from non-schengen countries between asylum and immigration authorities, border and security authorities will significantly speed up the processing and control of visas. this will help those travellers who enter the european union with good intentions, or very frequently, because they will now be able to obtain a visa more quickly and easily, whether they are coming as tourists or business travellers. on the other hand, it also facilitates the controls which are indispensable in a european union of open internal borders. all the groups can be satisfied with the result. on the one hand, the european union is committed to a fast and hospitable visa process. on the other hand, it protects its citizens from illegal entry and the associated forms of organised crime. i thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have worked constructively on solutions and i also express my thanks to the german presidency of the council, which has implemented many of our ideas in the council, particularly in the area of data protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the time has come for the internal affairs politicians to make a stand. on the one hand we can see progress in the area of security and law, when it comes to prüm and the vis, and on the other hand we can also see progress in the area of civil rights, when it comes to data protection. i'd like to focus on data protection. we have made real progress in the third pillar. i would like to say that we in my group also have great confidence in the authorities. when we talk about data protection, we don't want to sound suspicious. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to reply to mr álvaro that my concern is less about the large data sets to be expected in the future; i am glad that we can use it to solve thousands of serious crimes in europe and to give people security. the data protection framework restores the balance between the existing and necessary power of our authorities on the one hand and the rights of citizens on the other. there are still many open questions in the room, but we're taking a step forward. the epp would like to make it clear that we are in favour of a clear data protection framework and that this is a matter of great importance to us. it was a difficult birth, to say the least. i would therefore like to thank all those involved: the german presidency of the council, without which this progress would have been unthinkable, mrs roure, who negotiated excellently for parliament, and of course our commissioner franco frattini, who has accompanied us with the same vigor. i would also like to point out to the council that there are still some objections to the discussion of the data protection framework, although there are far fewer. we hope that it will come to an end and we will put all this to rest. i would also like to say, as regards the procedure, that i personally believe that we would not be in such a good position today in the area of police cooperation under the prüm treaty if certain states had not stepped forward as flagships. the council has already taken a decision on the matter. that is why i have no problem with this procedure. i would simply say to the council: if it is then transposed into eu law, then the european parliament must also be involved. the negotiations today have shown that parliament is sometimes praised, even though members of parliament are sometimes difficult. in the end, they are very reasonable and will make good compromises.
the commission has already done so. this report by mrs gibault sets the same priorities as those which parliament set with my report 15 years ago and with mrs vaz da silva's report eight years ago. it is a question of how many times parliament has to make the same demands before anyone actually responds. i was glad to hear that the commissioner was perhaps taking a small step in the direction we proposed 15 years ago. sometimes it takes a long time. this report says that an inventory of the social status of artists must be made. the difficulties and obstacles facing the artist in terms of mobility within the framework of the visa policy must be clearly defined. i know that the parliament is currently working on the visa code and i very much hope that artists can also benefit from this visa code. this is a long-held wish of ours, and i believe that it is now on the right track. it is about social security, it is about unemployment and pension issues. we have already called for a statute for artists in the 1992 report. imagine that for a moment. in 1992, where was slovakia, commissioner? we have already tried to give impetus to the tax treatment of works of art and to bring about harmonization of the work of artists, particularly with regard to vat. we tried to set up a fund. we tried to create an id card for artists. all the way back to 1992! all of this is now being called back. but you have to repeat everything - that's what i learned as a teacher - in order for it to stick. but here, everything gets so deep that nothing ever comes to the surface. so, commissioner, our words to you. but it's not just your ear. it is actually the responsibility of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. my report was much bolder than the one we are now daring to present, because we are afraid that some of it might not be implemented and because we are much more cautious today. we must measure our democracies by how much we do for culture, how many opportunities we give it. mrs gibault has indicated ways in which what we should be doing can be implemented by the commission and the member states. i wish you luck with that.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not in the light of the declining cod stocks in the baltic sea, as indicated by ices surveys, and the demands of the fishermen concerned for fishing conditions which will allow them to maintain their social environment, i should like to acknowledge the work of my colleague mr chmielewski. the commission has also proposed that the fishing fleet be reduced to a minimum, and that the fishing fleet be reduced to a maximum. but if sustainability is to be more than just a matter of words, it must also be reflected in the way we work on board fishing vessels and in our personal attitude towards scientific standards. accepting quotas is one side. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the stocks in the community, and this means not only that the framework conditions laid down must be respected, but also that new measures to improve stocks and effective controls by the member states must be supported. unfortunately, the control activities of some member states are weak. there are still plenty of reserves to be tapped. the involvement of regional advisory bodies is not only helpful but also imperative. the commission proposal is therefore moving in the right direction and the socialist group supports this proposal and the rapporteur's efforts to achieve a socioeconomic balance. i would appeal to those responsible to take seriously the advice of ices and other scientific bodies when setting tacs and quotas for cod and when drawing up measures to prevent further reductions in cod stocks. the baltic sea is a sensitive sea and we should take this into account in any action we take.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i'm disappointed that we're here talking amongst ourselves about things we've already discussed. what right do we have to stand here without someone to talk to and listen to us? if the commission were to allow itself to discuss its budget without the commissioner in charge being present, we would be acting differently. i am personally very disappointed in the way in which the administration of parliament and the bureau are dealing with the committee on budgets and the members. i would like to come to the main message concerning the budget in the european parliament. what should be the key message to our electorate? it must be that we take seriously the task of making legislation for europe as good, efficient and economical as possible for the voters. this includes better working conditions for members. they must be the focus of consideration. representation is fine, but the content of our policies is still more important than their presentation and packaging. but for good content, we need a proper scientific service so that we can make better legislation. we need not only a campaign by the administration to prepare for the european elections, but also more opportunities for members to employ staff. this also implies a certain degree of flexibility. how has the european parliament implemented the reformed and de-bureaucratized financial regulation which has been in force since 1 january 2007? i don't think we've ever had so much paper warfare in this house. the uncertainty has also never been greater. the members' statute and the pension fund are unregulated. i would like the parliament's administration to come up with a suitable solution to this problem, rather than making lofty plans for interparliamentary summits or museum buildings. i look forward to the web-tv when it shows how few colleagues are taking part in the work of this parliament.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have nothing to add to the descriptive remarks made by the president of the council and the commissioner. the cards are on the table. we need not repeat what we all know, namely that on 21 and 22 june this year, the future of the european union as it stands today will be at stake. this statement implies that there could be another union a changed, weakened or strengthened union after 22 june. we are in favour of a stronger union. but the basic prerequisite for strengthening the union is to remember a simple phrase: unity makes strength. fracture is weakening. this is the experience of the last few years of the european union. it is always weak when it is not in agreement but is divided. it's strong when it's united. but the european union must be strong, because the challenges are enormous. and to all those who dream of vetoes and think they can overcome a veto, we can only say: the filth in the air does not care about vetoes. he doesn't care about borders either. if we want to save humanity in all its aspects, we need the contribution of europeans, and that is a contribution of a few. europe always thinks it is a big continent. the 27 member states, with a population of 495 million, are a small continent compared with 1.3 billion chinese and 1.1 billion indians - together 2.4 billion people, or one third of the world's population. the federal republic of germany, which you represent, mr steinmeier, is a weak country, even if it has 82 million inhabitants and a huge economy, and it is not able to do so without the european union. europe needs this unity and the elements are there. climate change is a challenge for us. even if the united states of america were to ask us to agree - and one must always ask what is behind such a request for real wishes - then we should do the united states of america a favour in the transatlantic relationship and agree. the united states is also clear about one thing: only by combining the enormous scientific, economic, cultural and social power that we can develop together across the atlantic can we effectively contribute to solving the world's problems. the cards are on the table. mrs merkel the much-vaunted has certainly done a good job and will have to do a lot of hard work. she's a physicist, and physicists know that you can make the most wonderful things out of the most diverse elements. the physicists also know that the basic prerequisite for success is mathematics. the logic of mathematics says: a double minus is a plus. then there's hope for the warsaw twins. we know where the difficulties lie, mr president-in-office. you told us that, in accordance with your diplomatic obligation, you cannot tell us everything you know. it is a good thing, because otherwise this would not be a happy morning, especially since you have a lot of problems. we have another task: we must appeal to the governments meeting on 21 and 22 june. the nice round was a failure, not only because one or other of the heads of government fell asleep during the night, but because the next morning the curse of evil became visible, when all of them said together: this treaty is not enough for 15 member states, how can it be enough for 27? that's why we got the constitution. now the constitution has not been ratified, but we are 27 member states, and we cannot die for nice. if we do not get better results than we did in nice, we will fall back on nice. then, mr saryusz-wolski, the european union is dying at nice. i don't want to do that. that is why we are called upon to work toward a unifying work. we as the european parliament have set out our views in the barón/brok report. i am speaking on behalf of my group when i say that the european parliament will use this report as a benchmark. there can be no agreement below what is described in this report as necessary. if you present us with a result below these requirements, my group will in any case not agree to it. i want to make that very clear to the council today. if you are optimistic, mr president-in-office, we are on your side. fight to the last minute. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. unity makes strong, and division weakens. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president-in-office, you quoted the motto of the german presidency: 'europe can only succeed if we work together'. i've been wondering since, with whom? the main objective was to develop a roadmap for the further development of the constitutional process. we debated yesterday the content which was rejected by my group, and i can spare myself that today. but if you compare the statements on the strategy of the last six months - some want to keep the text as it is, even though it was rejected by two countries, some want a little more, some want a little less, some want more towards the internal market, some more towards social europe - the cacophony is very great, and so far the objective has been missed. the wdr europe forum recently had a lot to say about solidarity. solidarity as a principle on which the european union is built and which must be developed. it should be, but unfortunately the council's policy does not fit in. it has continued what the lisbon strategy has called a 'turnaround' in the economy of more and more areas of life, the restructuring of which is clearly geared towards an open market economy with free competition, and the application of business criteria rather than national economic criteria. examples of this are post-liberalisation, the services directive, the health directive, the green paper on employment law. while politics is increasingly depriving itself of its own creative possibilities, european regulations are being promoted under your presidency of the council, which in my view constitute attacks on citizens and human rights. two examples: the retention of passenger data and the visa information system with the widespread introduction of biometric data collection, where there is still no common european data protection. this policy has now been extended to include foreign trade policy positioning. in recent months, the 'global europe' strategy for a competitive europe has been further implemented. the main focus is on market access for european companies. it's not about fair trade anymore. there are examples of this too. the push for stricter patent laws, free trade agreements instead of cooperation agreements, economic partnerships instead of development aid. at the same time, mode 4 of the gats is being categorically repealed, thus affecting the free movement of workers. the g8 summit: it would be perfectly legitimate for heads of government to meet privately for a barbecue and debate the future of the european union or other important issues. but the objectives negotiated there, negotiated between individual large eu member states and other economic powers, are then set as if they were necessary to be implemented worldwide. even the 27 member states of the european union are not in agreement among themselves. the decisions taken there are not justified by anything. that is why the protest we are hearing is justified and must be taken into account, and i say clearly that we are distancing ourselves from any violence, no matter from which side it is exercised.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it cannot be stressed enough that this summit will decide whether the european union has the political capacity and the collective strength to adapt the treaty foundations of its new 27 member states to the increasing demands of the global world, or whether it will fail to meet this challenge and remain on the spot. in the barón crespo/brok report, the european parliament strongly supports the efforts to adopt a roadmap for the adoption of the treaty. the few member states whose consent is still being contested should therefore consider whether they are putting at risk the necessary consolidation of the community in the interests of their own, which are very clear and ostensible. europe must not remain in this petty quagmire! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us remember: it is not they who have failed the constitutional treaty, but the citizens who have said no. i doubt whether we will win their approval by taking the treaty out of the dangerous referendum curve without examining the reasons for its rejection. i am against referendums, according to the system of government in my country, but i am determined to address and work out aggressively the widespread and deep-seated discomfort with the european union. the summit must also send a signal. this is not the square of the circle, because the discontent is fixed on very concrete things, on the absence of borders, for example, both externally and internally. europe must remain confined within its own borders. we are at the very least reaching the limits of integration in the single market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is not least the commission which occasionally deliberately and without any sense of subsidiarity crosses these boundaries of integration. we need the new contract. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will not be afraid to ask that question. but let us not forget that we need the agreement of the heads of state or government for the treaty. europe also needs the 'yes' of its citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, you, like mrs merkel, have represented the positive aims of this lively constitutional process during the 50th anniversary of the european union and have therefore been greeted with much applause. nevertheless, parliament is constantly asking itself how and when this closed diplomatic process, which is now taking place around the mini-treaty or another treaty, should be reopened. the council presidency has repeatedly stated that good intentions can be tolerated by the public. why do you continue to avoid consistent public participation if you have such good intentions? this participation is overdue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. i would like to say a few words about a specific policy area: climate policy is currently a topic of discussion in europe mainly in connection with the g8 summit. in my view, the june summit can only be considered a success in this area if we do not fall back internationally on the agreements reached in march for europe. the 2°c warming target and the recognition that we need to achieve a 30% reduction in co2 globally and that the un is the appropriate forum to agree on this, i think are fundamental conditions. if george bush is preventing such an understanding in heiligendamm, for example, then i think it is wrong for the european leaders to engage in anything there. i believe that the results of the march summit are worth much more and should be upheld, because george bush will soon be a thing of the past as president of the united states.
the president has no right under the rules to reprimand the speaker who has just spoken. if i had the chance, i would, because you just insulted a head of government. i think it's un-british, too, the way you just acted, mr helmer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president-in-office, what would be a success and what would be a failure of the summit? i heard yesterday in brussels from a senior politician that a mini-contract is already a maxi-success. of course it can't be! you know the position of parliament, namely that we do not want to accept any compromise on civil rights, on the ability to act, on transparency and on democracy. nor is there any reason why we should back down on these objectives, because we know from eurobarometer that the citizens in all 27 member states want more europe, not less europe. your talk was very encouraging. they say they agree on the main points. i think the contract should be a "contract plus". since 2004, there have been some developments, such as the debate on climate change. it would be very nice if the protocol which mrs wallström had already suggested for nice, or a similar text, could now be incorporated into this treaty. i also believe that the citizens need an explanation of a social europe. there is a great deal of misunderstanding about the treaty, as if it were a neoliberal hoax. the treaty could be accompanied by a declaration to highlight the benefits and advantages for the citizens and also for europe. the balance of the institutions must be maintained. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the yellow card cannot be developed into a red card. that would destroy the community method and weaken the role of this parliament enormously. furthermore, the ability to act does not depend on the symbols, but a convention would never have the idea of abolishing the symbols. we are talking about giving europe a soul and taking away the few identifying features with this eu! that's why i think we should fight for it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to ask the german presidency to remain firm. we are behind you and you have many member states on your side! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president-in-office, europe hopes for your success, which would be a success for us all. we know how difficult your task is, and we know how stubborn some member states are. we hope that you will be able to secure a mandate for the intergovernmental conference. you have our support. for us, the german liberals, there are three main points: firstly, we want the compromise on institutional matters and voting procedures not to be renegotiated. we also need to overcome the column structure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is irresponsible and even destructive to the common european project. secondly, we need a european foreign minister with a european external action service consisting of the council, the commission and the member states, a foreign minister who is not the jewel of the union but its mouthpiece, who can make decisions and who is also supported by the common political will of the capitals when the going gets tough. i found your remarks at the beginning of our debate as encouraging as those of mr leinen. thirdly, we want - for liberals, of course - strong protection of fundamental rights. we know that you have problems with the charter being retained in the text. we urge you not to let up on this. the german presidency will be measured by its success in developing the treaty. i predict that the debate on the two-speed europe will begin with force in our country if individual member states refuse to give you a reasonable mandate. it's not gonna stop then. it is a debate which does not arise from our wishes but from objective necessity. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rules 9 and 146 of our rules of procedure. article 9 (2) of our rules of procedure governs the conduct and dignity of members and the respectful conduct of members in this chamber. article 146 governs the president's emergency measures. mr president, mr pöttering has just said, referring to a speech by mr helmer, that he has no power to intervene when members of parliament are insulting the dignity of this house. i don't see it that way. article 9 (2) clearly states that members are to respect each other's dignity and respect and that the president has the right to intervene and to take measures under rule 146. why am i addressing this? in his speech, mr helmer called the president of the council, mrs merkel, a liar. i think that's not acceptable! (applause from the centre) the respect of the members of this house is not only for each other, but also for the representatives of other institutions. if i were to call mr helmer a 'confused' person, which i do not do, but imagine that, that would be an insult to dignity and mutual respect. that's why i'm not doing this! but just as you can't expect a member of parliament to go unpunished for making such a monstrous statement. i therefore ask the bureau to consider appropriate regulatory measures. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to ask for the following amendment: instead of a report by 31 december 2013, a report by 31 december 2010 and then every three years.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 7 june 2007.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 14 june 2007, in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: the socialist group requests that the president of the european parliament make a statement on the situation in palestine, followed by brief speeches by the group chairmen. i suggest that this statement be placed on the agenda at 9 a.m. tomorrow as the first item. is there any objection to that?
we can ask for it, but i doubt that any of the institutions mentioned will be available at 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. but we're trying to. (parliament adopted the resolution) i have no changes for today, monday. tuesday:i would like to inform you that the council has informed me that it will not be able to attend the g8 summit conclusions tomorrow afternoon.
i would like to thank mr swoboda. i just found out myself. we shall make this quite clear in the appropriate way. wednesday: there is no change in this. thursday: the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe calls for the vote on the motions for resolutions on the middle east to be postponed until the july part-session.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the conference of presidents last week unanimously decided to hold a major debate on cuba in the autumn, as there is no current occasion for a debate on cuba. now the general affairs council has dealt with cuba today and yesterday and has issued conclusions which make the council's position appear slightly altered. the council also welcomed the fact that the cuban government had been invited to participate in the negotiations on the new agreement with the european union. this is a topical matter and we would therefore be very grateful if the subject could be put on the agenda, notwithstanding the discussion in the conference of presidents last week.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i was also present at this conference of presidents, and the proposal to hold a full debate on latin american policy in the autumn, in which cuba should play a special role, was my proposal on behalf of my group. mr nassauer is a very honourable and correct colleague and what i am about to say does not concern him because he voted with us in this conference of presidents for a debate in the autumn. we know, however, that some of the epp group members, not only in view of today's decisions of the general affairs council, but also on thursday, immediately after the conference of presidents, felt that this was not possible and that we should not talk about cuba at this time, in any case, in the context of urgencies. we know who did it, too. this is particularly the case with the spanish delegation to the epp group. we have been asking ourselves for some time whether ppe is the abbreviation for partido popular español. the fact that we are seeing the ideologization of the spanish kind in this house at every opportunity is due to these people in the epp group. that is why i repeat once again: it is completely pointless to discuss cuba on thursday afternoon under the heading of 'urgent matters'. then there are 15 people in the plenary. the european council has decided today to invite a cuban delegation, and it would be very sensible to wait for this dialogue to begin and then to prepare a serious debate here in the autumn. this is serious politics. what we're seeing here is an internal spanish tactic. (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into detail. that is the vote of parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it was a technical error, and i'm really sorry. during the vote, the lights went out on many machines, for example on those of mr karas and mr nassauer, who wanted to complain to you too, but without knowing the actual result, which i understand. i therefore ask you to repeat the vote. (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into detail. i ask that we not quarrel over such a question. there's enough fighting in europe. it was a very close vote and indeed some machines did not work, including those of mr nassauer, mr swoboda and other colleagues. that is why i ask for your agreement to repeat the vote.
mr president, i would like to refer to the usual procedure whereby, if a voting machine has not worked, the person concerned can state his position on the record without the vote being repeated.
so, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the narrow results of the vote and the fact that some of the machines did not work, i recommend that we repeat the vote.
i am not going to go into detail. the vote could have been repeated only if we had agreed to it. that was my proposal, but unfortunately we couldn't agree on it. i am sorry that it has not been possible to obtain a consensus. the legal situation is now such that the vote has taken place. but you still have the floor, mrs. scheele.
we can talk about this for hours. i will now read to you what has been written for me:
if the technicians say they closed the vote before the president could determine that the vote was closed, then i have to say that the vote is not valid. that is why we are repeating the vote. (parliament adopted the resolution) (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
- i'm not going to. the european union has freedom of expression. that's why you can speak your mind. but you can be sure that wherever the president of the european parliament speaks, he will defend the law of the european union with determination, including at the event you have just mentioned. the president of the federal republic of germany also spoke there last year, and he too defended european law. so wait until the event!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague gunnar hökmark for his excellent cooperation. we worked out some compromise together. the development mentioned by gunnar hökmark in his report covers all the technical areas covered by the broadband issue. all aspects are covered excellently. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there we observe a great chasm. basically, we can speak of the 'broadband paradox' because we have high broadband rates in urban areas where broadband is not really needed, but not in rural areas. so we have to find ways of making this happen there. we also talked about what we call the digital dividend. the european spectrum landscape is indeed freeing up frequencies that can be used for mobile broadband solutions. but we also have to talk about a major task: who is going to build this infrastructure? how do we deal with the private investors who want to invest here and get a return on their investment? as a liberal, i would of course like to leave everything to the market and i know that gunnar hökmark also has a liberal soul , but we have to realize that this does not happen in rail transport or in education, so even the liberals have to admit that we have to find other ways to reach investments there. there's talk of a bonus. i am glad that the report allows this opening and gives such a bonus to overcome the broadband gap, especially in rural areas. i would like to say to commissioner kroes, who is now responsible for competition policy: not everything can be seen purely in purist and theoretical terms! in a world that is rapidly evolving globally, sometimes you have to give up the umbilical cord and adapt your competition rules to global conditions. here's a small area where we can do that. i am therefore particularly pleased that the policy of support is being changed, that funds from the regional development fund, from the agricultural fund, can be used to build infrastructure here. but even more important for competition policy is that we are technology neutral. the commissioner is taking the right course, and i congratulate mrs reding on that. i would like to mention one more aspect: the broadband infrastructure of europe can only be achieved if we have a 'man on the moon' objective. in my view, this objective could be to enable as many people as possible to vote by electronic mail in the 2009 european elections. this would put pressure on the member states to involve 25% or perhaps even more people in this wonderful instrument that is moving europe forward. electronic voting for the 2009 european elections i think this would be a crucial new challenge! thank you again for your cooperation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let me address a few points. i was very intrigued by commissioner kroes' comment. i'm sure what she said is all in line with you. i would therefore like to ask you a few questions: it mentioned that there would obviously be a possibility to consider appropriate funding from the regional fund for broadband support. i would like to know from you how you see this: will there be a communication? what are the criteria for this? how do you want this reported? what procedure? will this be covered by the classical state aid as defined today, or do you foresee a special notice on this? if there is a special report, how will it be voted on? how will you check that these companies are actually doing the broadband deployment in accordance with the competition criteria and not just do a cost calculation and say, 'this is a great idea, and in all the regions that are, so to speak, 'not competitive', we will then want to access this aid'? commissioner, i would be grateful if you could explain this again. a second tip came from your colleague. he was referring to the fact that you are considering a green paper on public services in this area and, among other things, the consideration of broadband being included. i 'd like to know again . when do you plan to publish the green paper and what will the consultation procedure be like? when will you go public with the consultation procedure? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as far as i know, it's already happening today. i would be grateful if you could give me - it doesn't have to be today - written information on this.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i am speaking on behalf of my colleague, commissioner fischer boel, who wishes to thank the rapporteur, mr schnellhardt, and the members of the various committees involved in drawing up this excellent report. she also wishes to express her appreciation for the good cooperation between all involved in parliament and the council, and to thank the council for its work. as a result of this cooperation, the work has moved smoothly and steadily towards achieving the result of which we are all aware. on 15 december 2005, the commission submitted a proposal for a new regulation on the definition, description, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks. since then, a whole series of discussions have taken place: a public hearing took place in parliament on 20 july 2006; there were reports from the committee responsible, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety; there were opinions from the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on internal market and consumer protection. this process has been very intensive and constructive under the codecision procedure. a series of informal trialogues took place which led to the council’s general approach, which not only accommodates most of the member states’ concerns, but also reflects the european parliament’s powers of codecision by taking the vast majority of its proposals on board. one proposal in particular that has been taken on board is the abolition of the initial proposal for the categorisation of spirit drinks; secondly, the introduction of a strong quality policy for spirit drinks; thirdly, the withdrawal of the proposal to allow flavours to be added to eau de vie; and fourthly, the strengthening of the powers of the european parliament by introducing the regulatory committee with scrutiny procedures in most of the cases for which provision is made for comitology. those are just a few of the essential amendments which were introduced on the initiative of the european parliament. during this whole procedure, my colleague, commissioner fischer boel, has played a constructive and pragmatic role with a view to finding a result that we hope the european parliament will be able to endorse. in line with the international obligations deriving from the tbt agreement and following the council’s request of 23 april 2007, the commission sent the file to the wto, setting a two-month period for comments. this notification was formally made on 1 june 2007. as regards vodka, the commission still has some reservations at this stage, which are primarily of a legal nature. the commission has always taken a clear stance that it must ensure that a definition of vodka is compatible with eu law and fits the wto context. the definition of the raw-material bases for this popular product – which is enjoying considerable market buoyancy worldwide – has been subject to considerable debate in the last month. the general approach of the council distinguishes the labelling of vodka between one group based on potatoes and cereals, and those products which are derived from other raw materials which shall bear the indication ‘produced from’ and list the products that go into it. the commission’s legal service has expressed concern about the compatibility of this solution both with eu law and with wto obligations. any restriction of the present legislation needs to be duly justified and proportionate; the least intrusive way has to be found to serve this goal. so my colleague would like to conclude with these words: ‘for the time being, let me congratulate the council presidency and parliament for their very successful collaboration, which i hope will be endorsed as a first-reading agreement by parliament in view of a final adoption once the wto notification procedure has been brought to an end in two months’ time’.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you heard the commissioner. i have to say, she spoke to me from the heart. we all heard that in the chamber and we will take it into account in the vote tomorrow. what was the starting point? when we held the hearing on 26 june last year, we quickly realised that there were very wide differences in the implementation of the regulation. there were divisions in the council, there were divisions in parliament, and we really asked ourselves: how are we going to cope with this? the fact that we have a compromise between the council, the commission and parts of parliament today - after the first reading, i must say - is a bit sensational for me, considering the situation at the outset. but it is the result of all those involved, and for that i thank the commission, the council and the colleagues who have worked on it: mrs mcavan, mr schlyter, mr maaten of the liberals, to name just a few. this has been an excellent cooperation and the result can only be so positive. it was not just a matter of growing up at the desk, but it was also the result of a clear vote by the committee. we had a vote of 58 in favour, with only two against and two abstentions. the commissioner said that a lot of the things parliament has asked for have been implemented. we agreed at that time that we must improve the quality of the regulation, we must give it more consumer information and we must make it more in line with the internal market. it was necessary. there were two regulations and many accession acts which could not achieve all this. there is no categorization of wonderful. we don't have a quality classification of spirits. that would be very bad. but we have a quality ban on flavoring the fires. so you're not allowed to flavor fires. i have said, somewhat exaggeratingly, that i do not want the spirits to be covered by the chemicals regulation because there are so many chemicals in them, but by the spirits regulation. but of course it is a question of protecting the producers who produce and manufacture in a professional manner, and we must not allow the production of spirits to become, to put it exaggeratedly, a toxic mixture. the question of sugaring is also a subject which parliament has pushed through. i say to the commission right now: when we talk about sugaring in the extended comitology procedure, we will be very careful not to add too much sugar. the figures were given: 20 g per litre, which is equivalent to 5 teaspoons. so the tea with five teaspoons of sugar in it doesn't taste good anymore! we'll be careful here. the methanol content has been reduced to 10 g per hectolitre compared with the old regulation of 50 g per hectolitre. this is a health issue. the blue acid content of stone fires has been reduced by 3 g to now 7 g per hectolitre of pure alcohol. these are accomplishments that cannot be praised enough. the traditional procedures were also reflected in the new proposal. we have therefore taken care to ensure that in particular what is traditionally produced may continue to be produced. this is a very important matter. now, about the vodka, a very controversial subject. i could live with the commission's proposal that the labelling of vodka should always indicate what it is made of. but then there were the objections of the traditional countries, like poland and finland. i have taken these objections to tradition into account. i said, well, then we will exclude potatoes and cereals from the labelling and only indicate the other agricultural raw materials used to make vodka. it is a correct solution, because if i look at the amendments now before us and take the commissioner's comments into account, i know that all the other amendments will not be accepted, either by the council or by the commission or by the wto. in order to take account of the tradition in poland and finland, it is right to remove these two products from the labelling. we must not be tempted to introduce amendments to the legislation to prohibit the manufacture of products for which there are no reasons of health, internal market or consumer protection. that would be going too far. we have always held that in the legislation before us. that is why i ask you to vote for the compromise tomorrow. there is no other compromise. if the present proposal is not adopted, all the other elements of the compromise will also be obsolete. the commission will then try again to impose its ideas, which have been hotly contested, and the council will again be at loggerheads. we won't have a regulation for years! i would like to point this out so that later on no one will say: 'if he had told me, i would have voted differently.' i look forward to the discussion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission proposal was intended to simplify the two existing regulations into one. it worked. the second objective, adaptation to new technical requirements and to the requirements of the wto and the trips agreement, will also be achieved. the third objective, the continuation of the existing geographical indications, which may be supplemented in future by additional names, will also be achieved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i thank the rapporteur, mr horst schnellhardt, for his commitment to the many difficult negotiations. in the dispute over the jägertee or jagertee, germany has accepted the term hüttentee as a german name. everyone must be prepared to step up to the plate. there is a lot of tradition involved, but there is a need for mutual tolerance. just to clarify: the term 'champagne' refers to the designation of origin, i.e. the regional origin, and has less to do with the ingredients. in germany, we order a "klaren". the fire is made from agricultural products, fruit, grain or potatoes. we have taken steps to ensure the clarity of the product and to preserve the economic basis of traditional distilleries, often small ones. i think that's gonna work, too. the addition of sweeteners must be regulated and clearly indicated on the label. for centuries, our distilleries have been producing top-quality fires without the addition of flavorings or sugar. the labelling is consumer information and ensures equal competition. the same applies to the original product. we've been working very hard on the definition of "vodka". the solution of labelling everything that is not made from potatoes or cereals is a workable compromise and provides clear information. i ask the members to accept this compromise.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu's multifaceted relations with russia are about to intensify: look not only at trade volumes, economic data, but also investment, both from the west to the east and vice versa. russia is our neighbour, russia is about to join the wto, it is a major supplier of energy to the eu. all these are reasons enough to write a report on this and to ask the question: where are we and where do we want to go? i would like to emphasize a few points. first, we cannot say that russia has made any progress in democracy, human rights, the rule of law or freedom of the press in recent times. i thought at first we could write a report that was more factually political. but we have to say in committee - and i thank my colleagues for their support - that we have to look at things critically. russia is a member of the council of europe. as such, russia has also signed a number of agreements, in particular promising to ensure democratic conditions. i think we need to remind the country of that. at present, relations between russia and the eu are in a difficult phase. recent events have shown this clearly time and again. i would like to quote commissioner mandelson, who says that the psychological legacy of the collapse of the soviet union and the consequent loss of superpower status is a huge mortgage. what we celebrated as a victory for freedom was seen differently in russia. russia's political leadership has yet to learn how to deal with its young history. at the same time, however, it is a fact that the eu and russia are interdependent. we need russian gas and oil. russia's economy, in turn, depends to a large extent on its energy exports. the russian economy also urgently needs foreign direct investment to continue its growth. the eu is by far the largest buyer, but also the most important source of foreign direct investment flows to russia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how should the eu behave in this situation? it is very important that the european union should take a common line and speak with one voice. if russia makes an agreement with one of our member states or does not honour an agreement, then russia is acting unlawfully towards the whole of the european union. we must not, therefore, turn a blind eye to this. secondly, russia must create a better investment climate for european companies, not by changing the law, but by better applying and, above all, enforcing the law. russian legislation on intellectual property must be harmonized with international conventions. the energy charter is an important point in our relations with russia. russia has signed it, but does not feel bound by it. that is unfortunate. without abandoning the energy charter, the eu should try to incorporate the important elements of the charter in the new partnership and cooperation agreement. i hope that agreement will be negotiated soon. the european union is also interested in russia's wto membership. russia would be subject to a whole bunch of international obligations. this will help ensure that russia is fully involved as an economic and trade partner and cannot pick the raisin alone. but we don't have to accept this at any cost. in short, despite some dark sides, we can look to the future with optimism and confidence.
i have to say, madam president, we are discussing mrs quisthoudt-rowohl's report at a very difficult time. the partnership and cooperation agreement with russia is virtually on ice. we have difficult relations between some member states and russia. the outcome of the wto negotiations is not at all clear. here too, frustration comes from many sources. the free trade agreement which we were to conclude after russia's accession to the wto is a project which we have envisaged for a long time and which has been repeatedly postponed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the one hand we have economic integration, we feel an intensity and actually a willingness on the russian side to adopt western standards in terms of investment and production possibilities. on the other hand, in the political sphere, one can sense something on the russian side that can be described either as insecurity or as grandiosity. it is good to maintain a healthy pragmatism, as mrs quisthoudt-rowohl did in her report, and to say: we need and want the relations. russia is our neighbour, it is an important political power and will continue to be an important political power in the future. we also need it for the internal political stability of the european region as a whole. we have to be very careful not to let the community become a mere mere speculator. i think this is the way. but, commissioner, we should add a supplement to this so that russia does not always run the risk of using economic policy as a political weapon. we must build up reasonable mechanisms to foster genuine dialogue. we have done some very fine work with many other countries, but we are still in the early stages with russia. business-to-business dialogue, smes, political cooperation and civil society - all these are needed to build a reliable democracy which, when a conflict arises, is not always afraid to immediately get into a fight.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 19 june 2007.
the next item is the report by mrs ferreira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the report on competition policy 2005 (2007/0278 (ini)) (a6-0176/2007). we've been informed that the reporter is having travel problems and will be late. i therefore propose that we start with the commission and then proceed with the other speakers. as soon as the rapporteur arrives, she will be given the floor.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 19 june 2007. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by eva-britt svensson, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prohibition of the placing on the market and of the importation into and exportation from the community of cat and dog fur and products containing such fur (com (2006) 0684 c6-0428/2006 2006/0236 cod) (a6-0157/2007).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i also thank the rapporteur. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we must now ensure that the member states also implement this regulation fully. this is a great success for animal welfare. this regulation will finally put an end to the misery of millions of cats and dogs being kept and killed in often appalling conditions in order to process their fur and export it to europe. this is also a victory for democracy in europe, because countless citizens have called for this ban through petitions and petitions. the regulation is also in the interests of consumers, because many citizens were not aware that products such as stuffed animals, clothing or key chains were made from dog and cat skins. all too often traders have circumvented the existing voluntary code of conduct and have placed dog and cat fur on the market without labelling or under false labelling. it is high time that europe took this important step for international animal welfare, following other countries such as the usa or australia, which introduced similar bans years ago. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 19 june 2007. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the code of good practice for multiple sclerosis by mr marcin libicki, on behalf of the committee on petitions (0-0028/2007 - b6-0124/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the terrible events and dramatic developments in the gaza strip over the past few days have deeply moved and disturbed us all. as you know, i have chosen the middle east as the destination of my first trip outside the european union and i have visited the region. the meeting with the president of the palestinian authority, mahmoud abbas, was to take place first in ramallah. the growing conflict between fatah and hamas has led president abbas to ask me to visit him at his office in gaza, where he is staying for mediation efforts. i granted that wish. just three weeks ago today, i spoke with president mahmoud abbas in gaza. i was impressed by the calm determination with which president abbas presented his convictions to me. yet outside his offices, i could feel the tension stirring the air. i would like to recommend to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you condemn in the strongest possible terms the violent attacks by hamas militias against the legitimate security forces and institutions of the palestinian authority. i would like to recommend that you express our support for president abbas and our solidarity with him out of deep conviction. we support the decision of the palestinian president to declare a state of emergency and to appoint an emergency government in order to resolve the political crisis in the palestinian territories as quickly as possible. we have great confidence in salam fayyad, the new prime minister who recently visited me in brussels, and in his proven leadership. i will express that confidence to the new prime minister today, should you appoint me. the task of the new government is difficult and will require the committed help of the european union and the international community. in line with the conclusions of yesterday's foreign ministers' council in luxembourg, i would like to say that we too, as the european parliament, should support those who are committed to peace in the middle east and continue to work towards it, with our deep conviction, with advice and action. the european parliament decided yesterday, at the opening of its plenary session, to postpone the adoption of a resolution on the european union's policy towards the middle east until the next plenary session in july. in view of the continuing instability and the constantly changing developments in the region, i believe that this is the right decision. however, this does not mean that we intend to be passive observers of developments. the european union, including the european parliament, must be at the forefront of a renewed relationship with the palestinian people and their responsible representatives. ladies and gentlemen, we must live up to our responsibilities and act accordingly. we must do everything in our power to restore human dignity to the entire palestinian territory. we must help the population to meet its most urgent human needs, but we must also help to develop a genuine long-term political perspective. the council of foreign ministers decided yesterday to restore normal relations with the palestinian authority, which we should welcome. it was also decided to create the necessary conditions to enable the resumption of efficient and transparent direct financial assistance and to help build up functioning institutions. common foreign and security policy missions, including police cooperation, will continue. the european parliament, as a key part of the eu budgetary authority, should strongly support this. the european parliament should not only take these measures, but also call on the palestinians to resume dialogue with each other in order to achieve the necessary reconciliation with a view to a future palestinian state encompassing the whole of the palestinian territories. it can be in no one's interest for the civil war to spread and continue. but there will be no peace without israel. israel has a great responsibility. i have made it clear during my visit to israel, and particularly in my speech to the knesset, that the european parliament calls on the political leaders in israel to express their unequivocal support for president abbas. in this context, i would also like to reiterate my call on israel to release to president mahmoud abbas the palestinian customs and tax revenues of some 800 million dollars which have been withheld for several months. the israeli government has declared its readiness to do so and it should now be implemented quickly. the european union must be an honest broker and i see it as the european parliament's task to make a responsible contribution to this. israelis and palestinians have the same dignity. you have the right to live within secure borders. may the day come when palestinians and palestinians, palestinians and israelis, live together in peace. the european parliament, as the representative of the peoples of europe, should support such a policy of reconciliation and understanding, however remote it may seem today. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we must understand that what has happened in the last few days is a low point in the development of the region. but i would also regard it as a low point in our own role as the european union in relation to the middle east. the foreign ministers' council decided yesterday to resume aid. why not now, after the state has been dismantled? (applause from the centre) you, mr president, have just called for direct aid to be paid to mahmoud abbas. i ask the question whether it is possible that it may be too late. could what is happening now - the collapse of the state order in gaza - have been prevented if we had paid the aid earlier and not subjected ourselves to the strategy of not talking to hamas? (applause from the centre) i do not know the answer to that myself, and we certainly have no right to say that if we had done things differently, things would have gone better. but we must at least be allowed to ask that question. is it not also the case that we are now experiencing for the first time, that the european union and the western community of states as a whole is experiencing, that there is a process that i would like to describe as follows: a people elects a government, and we don't like that government. we like the flawless election, as our own election observers have noted, but we do not like the result. the consequence of this is a blockage, a complete blockage. why have we not spoken to the non-hamas members of the government of national unity? there were a large number of members of the government who were not hamas or fatah. dialogue, even with those forces which may not suit us in the short term, is still the only way to find peaceful solutions. i remember as a young man, like all of you, being here when yasser arafat was considered the world's top terrorist. this man was later awarded the nobel peace prize. i thought it was right that the dialogue with him was recorded. history has proven that dialogue leads out of violence. al fatah is now considered our partner. al fatah was once the most powerful terrorist organization in the world! that's why we have to learn from our own mistakes. if we look at the real situation, i still believe that there is only one way forward, and so do my group and the socialist group: we must try to bring all the forces involved and all the interest groups to the table. anyone who talks to syria is under fire. we know that israel will be negotiating with syria in the foreseeable future. the preparations are already underway. we know that the israeli government has been trying to make contact with syria for the past year. let us be a little more honest and say: of course syria is also a part of the negotiating table, especially if you want to influence hamas. now it is surely futile to look only to the past. we must provide direct aid, which we can provide now. i don't know if there are any more opportunities to influence the situation in gaza. but if there is such a thing, then the first thing to do is to build up the infrastructure of the state, to support the security forces, which will actually bring security and not insecurity. but first of all - and this is something i have missed in all the debates of the last two days - we as the european union must ensure that humanitarian aid is available. because what's happening now is this: the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to deal with this situation. the real sufferers are the ordinary people who have no water, no electricity, no health care, who cannot send their children to school. and only if we can fix that will we create the atmosphere of security readiness that israel needs to live in peace. because one thing is clear: israel will not be able to live in security if there is ever more radicalization and civil war. it only creates more instability. the basic prerequisite for social security is always that we can build it and with social security in the region develop the willingness to achieve more peace. this must be the main task of the european union, and not the deployment of european soldiers, as i have heard from some of our union representatives in the last few days. it's not that we don't have the money to provide humanitarian aid for political reasons, but we do have the money to send a troop there. it's not our way. i hope we can get back to dialogue in the middle east. (applause from the left)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the report by diana wallis, on behalf of the committee of inquiry into the equitable life assurance society crisis, on the equitable life assurance society crisis (2006/2199 (ini)) (a6-0203/2007) and the draft recommendation by diana wallis, on behalf of the equitable life assurance society crisis committee, on the report of the equitable life assurance society crisis committee (b6-0199/2007).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the rapporteur in particular. we are grateful to her for allowing parliament to take note of a comprehensive and precise report on the investigation into the equitable life affair and to draw clear and unequivocal conclusions from it. this gives 1.5 million injured policyholders in britain and other european countries new hope of financial compensation. the result is clear: the uk has been found to be in breach of the relevant eu insurance directive. in addition to the structural shortcomings in the european supervisory and regulatory system, the german supervisory authorities are also criticised for not doing enough to protect the interests of german policyholders. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. there were significant problems with financial supervision and the regulatory framework, and not just in the uk. more serious, there were also clear deficiencies in the system of supervisory and financial controls at eu level, as well as frightening communication problems between national supervisory authorities. this is a very important point from a european point of view, since equitable life has been able to offer its services in other eu countries under the third life insurance directive, in accordance with the principle of the country of origin, which we greens have criticised. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the equitable life case illustrates that legal protection and financial supervision gaps can arise when a contract is concluded with an insurance group established in another european member state. such legal uncertainty at the expense of consumers is unacceptable, especially in such a sensitive area as the ever-growing cross-border financial services market. i therefore welcome the fact that the committee of inquiry is calling for legal consequences, particularly in the ongoing work on the future capital requirements for insurers under the solvency ii project. the commission is also invited to present by the end of the year the legislative proposal envisaged for the introduction of guarantee funds for insurers, with a view to making financial services, the creation of liability provisions and insurance schemes for domestic and foreign customers compulsory throughout europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the italian nation has produced many gifted artists. but i do not think it is appropriate for such distinguished colleagues as mr pannella to come here and make a circus of parliament, to sit in the back row for a moment, to speak on the rules of procedure and to speak on a point which is completely out of the question. that is disrespectful to the colleagues and also to the audience who are following this debate. i also do not think it appropriate, mr president, that you have not intervened sooner. the point is that this is a lesson in many ways. we have entered a new dimension as a parliament. we have taken up such petitions and are about to receive the results of a committee of inquiry. i would ask mrs wallis and mrs mcguinness, especially as we are already getting the first letters: if nothing is done about this parliament's report, we shall despair of europe and we shall despair of this parliament. i would ask mrs wallis and mrs mcguinness to consider giving this report, which will be published, a brief outline of what this parliament can and cannot do. we have a certain institutional deficit, and this needs to be explained in simple words and also in graphics. it is not that the uk has no compensation schemes and no compensation system, but rather that a different liability standard applies in the uk. there is a charge of intent, but not negligence, mismanagement or anything else, which is quite common in other member states. this is where we're at. we will have to find a way out of the old trenches between the principle of country of origin and the principle of country of destination in this european union, because both extremes are not appropriate and we have not yet succeeded in finding a middle-of-the-road system. that is why there are so many irregularities. we must try to find a new system, especially for complex areas such as financial services, otherwise we will always fail. i hope that if the british government finds a solution to compensation, it will be a solution for all europeans, because the british taxpayer has benefited in the past from the success of equitable life, which is due not least to its presence in the internal market. and this occurrence in the internal market has resulted in damage to citizens in the other member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not many speak of the balance between family, work and child care. but what happens? we regret that the commission and the council did not even put childcare on the agenda of their last spring summit. this shows how little importance is attached to it. i hope, commissioner, that we will not stand still in the legislative process, but move forward! why is the commission not doing more to bring the employment rates of men and women closer together? we know that in the scandinavian countries there is an improved balance between family and work because, on the one hand, there are more childcare facilities and, on the other hand, the employment rate of women is better. in all european countries, for example, the employment rate for women with children is falling by 15%, while it is rising by 6% for men. almost a third of all women work part-time. we are still seeing a wage gap in the european union, with germany even in last place with 26%. so i expect the eu to come up with proposals rather than just lofty words. i also expect the commission to make a statement on how it is that in member states such as germany there is so-called spousal splitting, which is a premium for staying at home, which does not benefit childcare at all and is actually a violation of the 'equal pay for equal work' directive. why is the child no longer the focus of european union policy?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this report is another milestone in the european year of equal opportunities for all. we have noted in the green paper on demography that the life stages of young people - students - in terms of work and family are completed later. women have seen in this process the opportunity that they can lead a better and more independent life through education, through studying the second path of education, and they have taken this opportunity. 59% of university graduates are women. women have outnumbered men. the situation is much worse for the later decisions. the glass ceiling is at work again: only 43% of doctoral students are women, the proportion of women in professorships is only 15% and in germany only 8%. who is surprised that women - especially the academic women - are increasingly choosing not to have children? we must work towards overcoming the social divisions of men and women, of gender stereotypes. we need to put in place measures to improve the balance between work and family life, for example through affordable facilities. that is what is being said, and i welcome the commission's intention to act here. but goodwill alone is not enough. you have to put pressure on him. people will decide for themselves how many children they will have, when they will have them, and whether they will have any at all. i do not know whether the young academics are aware of our discussion here, but we must respect their right to make their own decisions and make it easier for them to choose. we also have to respect that more and more people today want to live in alternative lifestyles and that they have left behind the image of the traditional family. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the same applies to the polish government, and it almost makes me angry that the polish side is once again taking a back seat here. many friends in poland have asked me to speak about this today, and i speak for the people of poland, who have the same right to make their own decision.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as the next rapporteur for the codification of mrs wallis's report, i should like to draw attention to a problem which our colleague mrs wallis also had. the codification procedure is a simple and rapid procedure. it is based on an agreement between the council, parliament and the commission and allows several amended acts to be combined into one act. the amendments to the text are expressly excluded from codification, and i therefore welcome the agreement on a rapid procedure. the examination is carried out by the legal services of the council, parliament and the commission, which compare the revised acts carefully. the result is then presented to the legal affairs committee and the rapporteur. i am in favour of simplification and better legislation, but with one limitation. as rapporteur, i receive the consolidated acts together with the result of the examination by the legal services between three weeks and one week before the vote in the legal affairs committee. it is not possible to examine so many acts in such a short time. but we should have the opportunity to examine it carefully when we vote on legislation on our own behalf. i would therefore ask that in future the consolidated version be sent to the legal services and to the rapporteur of the european parliament at the same time. the simplicity of the procedure would not be affected and the position of the rapporteur would be considerably strengthened. i think that this is in the interests of the whole parliament and the rapporteur for codification. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. i would like to replace the word 'could' in the second sentence of the second part of amendment no 26 by the word 'should'. that is the agreement reached with the socialist group.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say to the members of the free democratic party that the subject of mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou's report, namely measures to reconcile family life and study time, is very important. we took part in the vote to express our solidarity with the colleagues who worked on it. nevertheless, i would like to make it clear to my colleagues that we believe that this is a matter which should be dealt with exclusively at national level and not a matter which should be dealt with by the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am not going to go into detail. the competent irish authorities have informed me that mr colm burke has been appointed as a member of the european parliament, replacing mr simon coveney, with effect from today, 19 june 2007. i should like to welcome mr colm burke. welcome to the european parliament. we wish you much pleasure in your work.
thank you very much, mrs doyle. with your good wishes it must be a success!
pursuant to rule 3 (2) of the rules of procedure, mr burke shall, until his mandate has been examined or a challenge has been found, take part in the sittings of parliament and its institutions with full rights, provided that he has given a written declaration that he is not holding an office incompatible with the exercise of the mandate of a member of the european parliament.
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statements on the conclusions of the g8 summit, the report by glenys kinnock on behalf of the development committee on the millennium development goals the interim report (2007/2103 (ini) (a6-0220/2007)). the council is not represented.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall first of all give you some thoughts, as i have been asked to do, on the outcome of the heiligendamm summit on development and africa. the fact that these issues were again given special attention was in itself good news. the reaffirmation of africa as an important subject in the g8 process is a given, but it is obviously quite commonplace in the light of the concrete results. i fully understand the criticisms of those who are disappointed by the references to development aid. the compromise formula adopted simply reiterates the commitment of glenn eagles and i think we could have been more ambitious. as far as the european union is concerned, we know that the european union at 27 will finance between 80 and 100 per cent of the g8 commitment for africa. we should not allow the g8 members to neglect their own commitment, which, i remind you, was to double aid to africa. some g8 members are not on track at all to meet this commitment. the overall aid from the united states, for example, has fallen by 20%, and that from japan by 10%, and they should certainly do more. as regards governance issues and the core principles of development policy, i am quite happy that our approach to good governance, which was multidimensional and holistic, and the language we suggested, was retained in the final declaration on africa. our governance strategy focuses on outcomes and incentives for reform for those countries committed to appropriate and credible governance reforms, based on strong political will. i am pleased to note that the work of this year's g8 summit has focused on education, which is perhaps one of our most valuable contributions. the declaration clearly expresses the need to finance the unmet needs, which are estimated at us$ 500 million for 2007 in all countries covered by the fast track initiative. i also welcome the final text on financial resources for health matters, for the global fund, for programmes to prevent mother-to-child transmission. the us$60 billion promised over the coming years to fight hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis represents a clear and rigorous commitment to the cautious language originally used, which excluded any concrete indication of the financial resources required. i shall conclude on this point of the g8 with a more general reflection. the beauty contest of figures and statements that the g8 seems to have become in terms of development does not win the support of our african partners. on the contrary, because they are confronting us with the lack of results on the ground and, above all, with the lack of respect for our commitments. and they do it with all the more force because they found in china an alternative model. not only does it buy raw materials in bulk from africa, but it builds roads, ministries and hospitals in the months following the appeal and the promise. this is a considerable advantage when our own procedures, which were established mainly by the council and the european parliament, impose de facto delays of several years between the time the agreement was concluded and the time it is actually implemented. but there is also a lesson to be learned at the g8 level: even as africa is increasingly developing its relations with emerging countries, the g8 beauty contest is going to become a side show that will be less and less convincing if we fail to incorporate china and other emerging countries into international initiatives on africa and development. that is why i will be going to china at the beginning of july: to talk about africa with my chinese colleagues. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before we conclude, a few words on mrs kinnock's report and therefore on the millennium development goals, whose relevance today seems to me to be absolutely indisputable. i remain convinced that the millennium development goals are within our reach, provided, of course, that all development actors, donors and partner countries, honour their commitments. and i would like to stress the european union's firm and total commitment at this crucial time in the implementation of these objectives. i would therefore like to make a few comments on this point, and even some reservations about the detail of the message contained in the report. while i naturally agree very much with the content of this report, i am nevertheless a little surprised by the half-hearted message that the report sends to the world about the performance of the european union as a donor. i would remind you that the european union is, let us not forget, the main provider of development aid, both in volume and as a percentage of gross domestic income: we spend 100 euros per capita on development aid, compared with only 69 euros in japan and 53 euros in the united states. it is not a question of complacency, of course, because progress is obviously possible and necessary. they are planned, as the european union has committed itself to them through the european consensus for development. it is particularly regrettable that the increase in aid from certain member states is partly the result of debt cancellation operations. i agree, of course, with the meaning of that remark or reservation. however, even excluding debt relief, eu aid increased, which is not the case with other major donors. we are, of course, sensitive to this argument, and that is why the commission has asked the member states to draw up by the end of the year a national timetable indicating the budgetary increases which will enable the member states to achieve their development aid objectives by 2010. nor should we underestimate the efficiency and multiplier effect of the division of labour between the commission and the member states, the alignment with the strategies and procedures of the partner countries, and even less the growing use of budgetary support, which is considerable. but here too, we, the european union, are in a position of undisputed leadership. i note, however, a certain unease with budget support, which is the preferred instrument of partnership and trust between partners with equal rights and duties. by supporting national policies and by being part of the budgetary process, we are putting in place the most appropriate instrument for appropriation by partner countries, which also offers greater predictability and exceptional flexibility. of course, there is still room for improvement. this is the subject of the millennium contract which the commission is currently working on - i mentioned it yesterday in reply to our colleague, mr van den berg, in committee - and we will be able to discuss with you in the coming weeks the criteria and conditions of this millennium contract. i think that it is essential to continue to work towards the millennium development goals. our approach will send a clear message of solidarity to the developing countries from the european union, which will only strengthen their own resolve. i must, in conclusion, thank and congratulate mrs kinnock on this very relevant report, which puts the questions where they should be. it is a very, very useful contribution and a continuing source of inspiration for the commission's work.
thank you for your excellent work, mrs kinnock, and congratulations on your report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are now taking a mid-term review of the great effort to achieve the millennium development goals, and that review is bad. the report by glenys kinnock makes this clear. my group strongly supports this good report. if the political situation continues, many developing countries, especially in africa, will not achieve the millennium development goals, and most developed countries will not deliver on their promises to provide financial aid. the g8 summit in heiligendamm, germany, was unfortunately another example of this. since 1999, the same promises have been made and not fulfilled every two years. this is a serious blow to our credibility as the european union in the eyes of many developing countries. the promises of heiligendamm are now counted against the promises of gleneagles. $60 billion for the global fund, but they say we're gonna offset that with the unfulfilled promises of gleneagles. this is called double-entry bookkeeping. this is a confusing game with figures without any binding force on individual countries. i think it is very good that you have found very clear words in this context. that's what it takes. it is our task as a parliament to make that clear and to put pressure on the european union to at least follow its timetable for achieving the 0.7% target for official development assistance by 2015 accurately and without bookkeeping tricks.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not this is a summary of the g8 summit. at this g8 summit, a climate declaration was made that is clearly worthless. i agree with the declarations made by the environmental organizations. greenpeace says that's absolutely not enough, and the federation for the environment and conservation says that's a spongy promise that's been made here. everything has remained very non-binding. mr louis michel, i agree with you that there has been very little discussion on africa. the debt relief for the poorest countries is still overdue. but since this is also a debate on the g8 summit as a whole, i would remind you once again that these g8 countries have no legitimacy whatsoever. they are the self-appointed leaders of this world. this g8 summit has cost 100 million euros, of which the fence around heiligendamm alone has cost 12.5 million euros. there was a very successful demonstration of 80,000 people against this g8 summit, and the false and regrettable riots were used by the police to override the rule of law in retrospect. we now know, for example, that undercover police investigators were among the demonstrators and may have called for violence. lawyers could hardly do their jobs, and judges became police appendices. the lawyers had to fight long and hard to even be allowed to see the prisoners. the cages have been set up, which amnesty international has clearly criticised and described as not in order. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe. it is not always necessary to look the other way when citizens are being repressed, but in the middle of the european union, in the context of this g8 summit, human rights have been trampled underfoot.
thank you, mr mitchell. i appreciate the fact that you place some importance on the president of the european parliament, but he was not invited to heiligendamm.
thank you very much, anna ibrisagic. if you knew your name, you wouldn't believe that you speak swedish so well. that's a great example.
mr president, commissioner michel, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i should like to begin by thanking mrs kinnock for her report. for reasons of time, i shall only deal with one point which is unfortunately hardly mentioned in the report. the central importance of decent work as a means of eradicating poverty, in my view, plays a huge role in achieving the millennium development goals. where are we today in terms of these goals? if we are to draw a balance sheet at half-time, i think it will be catastrophic. most of the millennium development goals have not been met at all and realistically are not expected to be met by 2015. this is a testament to the poverty of the donor countries. the press reports of the supposed successes of the g8 summit do not change this.
member of the commission. mr president, madam president, as i have just said in my first reply, the commission is working with you, is putting forward proposals for the creation of a multilateral environmental organization within the united nations, with clear authority and regulatory functions. we believe that this will allow better decision-making and policy-making, based on scientific evidence. as regards its proposal for a tribunal, the commission does not at present have a definite position.
member of the commission. mr president, mr martin, the commission bases the european union's climate policy and its scientific and economic analysis of climate change on rigorous, available and up-to-date information. the commission is aware that, according to the results of recent research, with a stabilisation of greenhouse gases at the level of 550 parts per million in co2 equivalents, the chances of reaching the target of a maximum warming of two degrees are slim. accordingly, in the communication entitled 'limiting global warming to 2°c', adopted this year, the commission states that in order to have a 50% chance of not exceeding that 2°c limit, it will be necessary to keep greenhouse gas concentrations substantially below that level of 550 parts per million, in co2 equivalents, for the next few decades, and that emissions will then have to be reduced to stabilise at around 450 parts per million. this means that between now and 2050, global greenhouse gas emissions will have to be reduced by at least 50% compared to 1990 levels. the commission's analysis has shown that this target is technically feasible and economically viable if the main emitters act quickly. this technical feasibility has recently been confirmed by the report of working group 3 of the intergovernmental panel on climate change. the scientific studies carried out by mr mainhausen and cited in the question also support this ambitious objective. to limit climate change to two degrees celsius, to increase by two degrees celsius, the developed countries must take the initiative and collectively reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by the year 2020 compared to 1990 levels, which is the target we set in the proposals we adopted in january this year in the commission and which were subsequently endorsed by the european council. at the same time, developing countries' emissions should peak between 2020 and 2025. we are facing a global challenge in which the european union, which is responsible for 14% of the total greenhouse gas emissions on the planet, is ready to take international leadership. the european union hopes that the united nations climate change conference in bali this year will give a boost to negotiations on future international cooperation on climate after 2012, which should lead to an agreement on the effort required to achieve global emission reductions. and i can add that, in the light of the conclusions of the last g8 summit - all that can be said about progress and the limits of those conclusions - we believe that on this particular point there is important progress in that agreement reached a few days ago in heiligendamm.
member of the commission. mr president, as i said in my first reply to mr martin, we europeans are convinced that we must make as much progress as possible and that the european union must take the lead in the world. the point is that moving forward together would allow us to move forward with much more ambitious targets than if other major greenhouse gas emitters were not willing to commit themselves at this year-end conference in the post-kyoto negotiations and europe was left to its own devices. europe alone - as our january proposals say - must continue to set itself ambitious objectives, but it will not be able to set itself such ambitious objectives as it could if the other partners also committed themselves, as i hope they will do with us.
member of the commission. mr president, mr posselt, the european union applies strict rules to shipments of waste between member states and to shipments to third countries. the community regulation on shipments of waste aims to prevent the illegal transport of waste, including cases where waste is transported illegally from one member state to another in what is called, as you put it in your question, 'waste tourism'. transport of waste is only allowed if the subsequent recovery or disposal operations meet the environmental protection requirements laid down in european and member state regulations. european legislation sets the strictest requirements for the transport of hazardous waste and waste destined for disposal. it is illegal under these rules to transport such waste to another member state without first notifying the competent authority of the country of dispatch in writing. in addition, authorizations from all the competent authorities of the countries of dispatch, destination and transit must be obtained before the shipment can proceed. the commission's main priorities include ensuring that member states apply european legislation on waste shipments correctly and preventing and reducing illegal shipments. the commission has adopted a number of measures to achieve these objectives. this year awareness-raising events and meetings were organised with the member states in order to improve the implementation and enforcement of waste shipment rules in the states. the adoption by the commission of a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law will also be an important step. we cannot accept the illegal transport of waste from germany to the czech republic, nor the illegal dumping of waste at its final destination. we are not unaware that similar situations may exist in other member states, in addition to what you mention in your question. the commission will monitor the situation closely to ensure that european environmental legislation is properly applied. both the commission and the member states share the responsibility for ensuring that these rules are effectively applied. member states must provide for on-the-spot inspections and controls of shipments of waste and provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties to punish infringements.
i thank the commissioner for his good and detailed reply. i have two additional questions: firstly, do you think enough is being done to combat illegal waste tourism? secondly, to what extent does the phenomenon only spread to the new external borders, such as ukraine or south-eastern europe?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too would like to thank mrs mccarthy for the excellent report. i too believe that we must urgently ensure that the directives are put into practice. the absence of a legislative framework can lead to legal uncertainty and distortions of competition. we should prevent that. unfortunately, we have to note in this report that the new directives have only been implemented in 20 of the 27 member states to date, even though the deadline expired on 21 january 2006. the most common reasons for the lack of implementation were a lack of legal expertise, a lack of human resources, but also a lack of political will in the member states. so this is where we have to start, and i think mrs mccarthy's proposals are excellent. the committee proposes an action plan to the commission to encourage member states to address existing and emerging implementation and application problems in public procurement. i also think it is important that the committee has reaffirmed that there is good practice in certain areas which should be shared. member states should actively exchange knowledge and best practices on implementation in the area of public procurement and improve cooperation with the commission in this area. the committee strongly encourages member states to coordinate and simplify electronic purchasing techniques and to facilitate access to such purchases. it welcomed the commission's handbook on the application of environmental criteria and called for the publication of guidelines on the application of social criteria. this would also help to avoid legal uncertainty. but there is another area to be mentioned when it comes to the issue of legal uncertainty, namely the unresolved problem of public cooperation, which in germany we call intercommunal cooperation. here, municipalities - and only municipalities - operate facilities such as kindergartens, water supply, water disposal and waste between themselves. they do this because there is a decline in the rural population and this is to be offset by joint cooperation. i am now of the opinion that this type of intermunicipal cooperation does not belong in public procurement and i would expect the commission to finally clarify this. for this reason, the green group will also withdraw amendment no 12 and will not put it to the vote tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to thank all the coordinators and, on their behalf, the rapporteur for the good work they have done on this report. we were unanimous across the political groups in the direction and content of the report, as is shown by the clear vote of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. in principle, we must take into account that the consistency of the implementation of public procurement law within the eu varies from one member state to another and that therefore the commission's repeated claim that there are problems with public procurement law in certain member states is not tenable in this form on the basis of basic macroeconomic criteria, but that we urgently need better data collection on the problems that exist in the field of public procurement law in the member states. i am therefore very pleased that this point is taken up in the report and that the commission is asked to broaden the data base for the evaluation of national procurement systems. i should now like to comment on a number of amendments. we reject most of the amendments. i am glad that mrs rühle has said that amendment no 12 will be withdrawn. we do not think that all the amendments tabled by mr lipietz or the legal affairs committee are bad, but they would soften the report, which is very round in general. timely and correct implementation and application of public procurement legislation would make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives of the eu better regulation programme and to improving the application of the directive in the internal market through more consistent and better implementation. we ask the commission, but also the council in particular, to encourage the member states to increase their capacity to increase the professionalism of procurement and to exchange best practices in order to ensure the uniform application of these rules throughout the european union. as regards the amendment tabled by the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, i would add that the municipalities would probably welcome the idea of local authorities cooperating unbureaucratically, but that in the end the case law of the ecj does not provide any clear guidelines for the possibilities of intermunicipal cooperation or public-public partnerships, either in spain or in traxa. the commission is therefore called upon to consider what further steps are necessary in this area.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank our committee chairman for the excellent way in which she has prepared this report, in line with our previous reports, and for taking all our suggestions into account. i am particularly grateful because i see this report as a follow-up to the report on public-private partnership, which is actually very useful and helpful. i think the rapporteur's proposals are excellent. they will take us a step further in the completion of the internal market. the criticism she mentions is, however, very worth considering for all of us, including the public. when we read that the reasons are mostly 'lack of national legal expertise, lack of human resources or lack of political will in the member states', it is indeed a sign of poverty. we expect our neighbours in asia and africa to do the right thing, and we are not meeting the goals we set ourselves. i do not want to go into the blame here, but all the legal proceedings that take place in this context are annoying, unnecessary and expensive. it is therefore important that we take action in this area and also support the commission's activities. i would like to point out once again that it is good that the environmental and social criteria are made more widely known. it is very surprising that in the member states it is the smes, the bearers of our economic innovative power, who are largely unaware of what is possible, and that the citizens of our member states usually think that it is only necessary to use the cheapest bidder and not to be guided by other criteria. finally, i would like to thank you for the good cooperation and, because it has been so good, i recommend that all those who have tabled amendments withdraw them.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is not only a sensitive issue, but also, surprisingly, one in which the member states persist in breaching european law. in 2004 we discussed the green paper, in 2006 we had the parliament's resolution and now we have a new interpretation, and yet in reality little has happened. the member states can continue to do as they please. has the cfsp failed in this respect? i don't see any improvement in reality since 2004. article 296 of our treaty seems to be completely unknown to the member states and to the members of the national parliaments. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. in addition, the european court of justice has once again stated that this is not a general automatic exception. but there is no improvement, although - and this is perhaps worth mentioning - the relevant circle of those concerned is limited to six member states, and i do not see any improvement there either at the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has made a number of proposals to this end, for example on what elements the new code of conduct should contain. commissioner, perhaps you could add something to this. we have also asked you - and not just you, but also the european defence agency - to work with us more closely. i can't really see much of that in reality. i would like to point out again that we have proposed to you what competitive procurement mechanisms you still need to change in order to finally achieve what we all want in this house. the commission believes that a genuine european defence market is necessary to reduce the cost of military spending and to make production more efficient for the benefit of taxpayers and citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, for your comments, which clarify the commission's current position on this subject. you have said that parliament is a good ally of the commission. we do indeed support your view that a more transparent, effective and open european arms market is an important objective, both for strengthening the industry in europe and for objectives beyond that. i think what i have said here really applies to all colleagues. i would remind you of the broad consensus we reached on the green paper resolution. we are interested to hear that work on the defence procurement directive is well advanced and that the commission intends to present a proposal in the autumn. mrs weiler has just pointed out that defence markets are still largely defined at national level. the state is the only relevant demand for defence goods and, in fact, many procurement decisions are still made on dubious legal bases at least. however, and i agree with mrs weiler, there is little support for an increase in the defence budget. i believe that this draft directive is exactly the right way forward in the right direction, namely to increase the efficiency reserve in the european defence industry, to overcome fragmentation and actually to achieve greater efficiency and economies of scale. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. we need a clear definition of the goods covered by the derogation. the existing arrangements are in fact insufficient to meet the specific needs of the defence market. we therefore welcome the commission's initiative to adapt the rules to the circumstances of the defence market and to seek greater flexibility in this area. i would be grateful if you could tell me why you have decided to adapt the general law on public procurement rather than submitting a separate directive. that may be sensible, but i'd like to hear from you. in the final analysis, we agree with you that opening up this market will lead to more transparency and more competition and that we will ultimately relieve the taxpayer. in conclusion, i would like to say that i believe that this draft directive goes far beyond industrial policy or internal market policy. it will contribute to the further development of european security and defence policy, and will therefore make progress in a field which has traditionally been a core area of national sovereignty. the directive may not be revolutionary in this respect, but it will hopefully bring about measurable progress towards a common european security and defence policy which really deserves the name. i would also be grateful if we could have such debates in brussels instead of strasbourg in future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the basis for today's debate is the report by our former colleague, mr joachim würmeling. on this basis, the commission issued its communication at the end of last year, which was intended to clarify the application of article 296, but the impact of this communication was rather modest. it was originally intended only for non-military goods, and therefore a large proportion of military procurement necessarily fell within the scope of this exception. it is therefore the commission's real task to ensure that the procurement rules for defence procurement, on the one hand, genuinely support the work of the european defence agency and, on the other hand, take account of the fact that this sector is, as many speakers have already said, subject to specificities. that is why i would like to ask you three questions, commissioner mccreevy. firstly, is it not a defect of a directive in this area that it is based on a communication which was originally intended to cover only non-military procurement and that it is therefore not able to do what we expect it to do in the common security policy? secondly, is it not possible to update the list of 1958 which, although it was relatively clear in what exceptions were to be made, is no longer up to date? has the commission given up this update completely? thirdly, you were right to say that the ordinary law of procurement is not suitable for the defence sector. however, following what mr lambsdorff has asked, i would be very interested to hear from you how you intend to take account of the specificities of the defence sector in a directive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 27 member states of the european union spend €170 billion on defence every year. these 27 member states have 2 million soldiers, 10 000 tanks and 3 000 combat aircraft. however, it was not possible for the member states of the european union to stop the bloodshed in the balkan conflict, but we needed our american friends to do it for us. why would you do that? at that time there were no common decision-making structures in the european union to carry out such operations. one of the main reasons for the inefficiency of european defence is also to be found in the absence of a common defence market. one of the reasons for this is article 296. i am convinced that this article will continue to be relevant in the future. this article has been used excessively in the past. the european union has not yet achieved a common defence market. first of all, the commission's communication clarified what is covered by article 296 and what is not. i think this is useful information. then the european defence agency came into play. the code of conduct which it adopted was, in my view, an important step in the right direction. but now we also need european union legislation in this area. i therefore welcome the fact that this directive is now being envisaged. as members of parliament, we hear a lot of criticism of the european union's tendering rules, especially from the local authorities. that is why we as members of the european parliament will be very careful to ensure that the rules which are being created here are actually tailored to the defence sector and do not make the situation there worse, but rather improve it. that will be the condition for our approval. we are also constantly told that we europeans are spending too little on defence. if we go further in this area, if we create a common market here, then we will at least achieve that we get more security for the same money.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mercury must be banned completely and quickly. it is cynical to withdraw dangerous products from our market but to allow them to be exported to other countries. we know that mercury is spread through water and air all over the world. eventually, the mercury would end up in our bodies, and it would harm people. it is absurd that we should issue warnings, as the commission has done, that pregnant women and children should not eat more than 100 g of tuna a week because it is so highly laden with mercury. we know -- and a study published in the journal lancet has made this clear again -- that heavy metal is neurodegenerative and causes permanent, irreversible damage to the brain, especially in children. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mercury is everywhere, it's placental, for example. mercury is a metal that is liquid and evaporates at normal temperature. the limits are 25 micrograms for metallic and inorganic mercury and 100 micrograms for organic mercury compounds in the blood. i do not want to go into the effects of mercury poisoning here. i'm sure you know all the myamoto in japan. it is not just about economic advantages or disadvantages in our community, but about protecting the health of our fellow citizens and protecting an intact environment. the report by mr papadimoulis, whom i thank for his work, is a european farewell to the export of mercury compounds and a start on the safe storage of existing material. at the same time, it is reasonable to include all mercury compounds in the export ban if there are substitution possibilities, which is true in almost all applications. as an exporter of a dangerous substance, we are also not, as far as we know, in a position, nor are we authorized by wto obligations, to impose traceability of mercury on recipients, which makes the whereabouts of the mercury doubtful and the return to our community within the realm of possibility. i believe that article 175 of our common treaties applies to this regulation. the tightening up, the shortening of the time limits and the inclusion of mercury compounds in the export and import regulations are as sensible as they are toxicologically consistent. the deadlines are not too long, but there is certainly room for negotiation to reach an agreement. the question of the final storage of mercury is the focus of research, since no reliable storage method has yet been found worldwide for large-scale applications. we are talking about quantities of several thousand tonnes. i agree with the original version of the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i have to say, madam president, the internal market is designed to promote, not hinder, the mobility of workers. this also applies to entitlements to an occupational pension on transfer of employment. but the systems are not the same. in france and spain, they are mainly for managers. in member states such as austria, luxembourg and germany, they are voluntary. the aim is to retain qualified employees in the enterprises for the long term. so loyalty to the company is rewarded. the value in germany alone is 250 billion euros. what has been achieved in the member states on their own responsibility must not be destroyed by european forced harmonization. too high minimum standards and too high costs prevent new business systems from being created or maintained. the eu average is 10%. my amendments, which have the support of the epp-ed group, contribute to this increase. firstly, i am in favour of lowering the minimum age to 25. the commission wants 21 years. the report does not even mention any age. it's not working! younger workers often change employers, resulting in a flood of small pensions and enormous administrative costs. secondly, the five-year statute of limitations supports - contrary to the view of mr ettl - the position of the german presidency, which has made a great effort to achieve agreement. the two years required by the commission will create additional costs of 20%. the commission knows this. the committee on employment and social affairs does not want any deadlines. who's gonna pay for this? thirdly, i am in favour of abolishing the dynamism, along with 80 colleagues. if employees who have changed enterprise are to be treated in the same way as employees who are still in the enterprise, additional costs of 30% are incurred. the dutch minister for social affairs fears a financial debacle for his country, where 90% of all employees receive an occupational pension. only on the basis of feasibility and financiability do occupational pensions have a real chance of a future. if my group's requests are not accepted, i recommend that the whole report be rejected.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is regrettable that this issue, above all in the country i know best, is still treated according to the completely outdated view that company pensions are a premium for long-term employment. they're not that anymore! they are the second pillar of the pension scheme and are often agreed in collective agreements in conjunction with wage waivers, in today's life and work biographies. these biographies are characterized by mobility, interruptions and a wide variety of working conditions. the lower income groups can hardly live on state pensions today. in view of this, the commission's proposal on the transferability of occupational pensions is consistent, logical and ambitious. it is not possible that in the present day, when mobility is desirable and secondly, when working life is unthinkable without it, both transferability and dormant entitlements should be deleted from a directive on occupational pensions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the work of the european social fund. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am extremely sorry that the member states have shown too little willingness to follow the commission's bold step. the german presidency has contributed to the failure of the council with its unacceptable draft, and it should not hide behind the dutch. even if transferability does not win a majority today, we must not give up on this important issue of the next generation's retirement insurance in the long term and we must achieve this goal together - perhaps in small steps.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her excellent work. we cannot demand more and more flexibility from workers in the labour market and at the same time ask them to do more for their own retirement provision without giving many of them any chance at all of being able to acquire occupational or supplementary pension rights. some 20% of employees are now only on fixedterm contracts. 40% the commissioner has already said this have now been working in a company for less than five years. in this context, to call company pensions loyalty bonuses, as is the case in my country, for example, is downright cynical! we urgently need more timely regulations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a timely manner, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i was going to say that to my colleague, mr mann, who has now left the house. it is not by chance that the commission and parliament are very close to each other in this area. we must draw the consequences of the ageing of our society. in my country, for example, eight workers were receiving a pension in 1970, and by 2030 there will be only two. that's why we need to pull the emergency brake as soon as possible. we must create the conditions so that every worker really has the chance to be able to take the necessary precautions himself. of course, employers must also be involved. i am not aware of any evidence that the regulations we are proposing - as they appear in the oomen-ruijten report - are driving tens of thousands of companies into bankruptcy!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all agree that the mobility of workers must be encouraged. however, in many member states, such as luxembourg, austria and germany, this directive has a major impact on the whole of the occupational pension system. only 1.5% of employees switch to an employer in another member state. the directive also affects the other 98.5% of workers who remain in their member state. and i would like to say this to mrs jöns' address: we are doing these workers a disservice when the company pensions, which are voluntary, are no longer offered by the companies because they are no longer financiable. then whole national systems can collapse. the pension system is a major factor in the ageing of society. however, there is no obligation on companies to offer occupational pensions. applying the directive to old age pension schemes as previously envisaged would have resulted in penalising companies which have made large pension schemes in the past. we are in danger of companies withdrawing from the voluntary occupational pension. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this would lead to an enormous increase in bureaucracy and costs and would therefore no longer be financially viable. the adjustment of pension expectations of retired workers to the value of the expectations of active workers, the so-called dynamization, means an increase in costs of 30%. this was the main reason why the dutch minister for labour voted against the directive. we need reliable, predictable and financiable regulations. we are in favour of mobility, but on terms which do not jeopardise the occupational pension systems which are so important to workers. if the amendments in this connection are not adopted, i shall therefore vote against the report in the interests of the workers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the proposal for a directive raises serious problems, as is so often the case when people are directly affected. this is no less a matter of pension expectations, one of the sources of income in old age. germany, austria, the netherlands and luxembourg have very detailed occupational pension schemes which are of high quality and have benefited both workers and employers. the aim of a european directive must be to strike a balance between the original motive of loyalty to the firm and the need for the mobility of workers, which is so vehemently demanded by the industry and also by the european commission. as it works for the transferability of statutory pension insurance claims within the european union - the so-called pro ratalization - so it must work in my view for occupational pension claims. if you want mobility, you have to bear the consequences. i support my group's amendments, but whether they are adopted or not, i support the report as a whole because it brings certainty, predictability and planning for workers and employers. however, this proposal for a directive also highlights a fundamental problem facing eu legislation in this social field. the council must be unanimous. the fact that this is hardly achievable in the council is exemplified by this case, despite the admirable efforts of the current presidency. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take a decision on it. we as a parliament must therefore - in order to work successfully for the citizens - also make use of majority decisions in this area.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thank you very much for your contributions. i would like to come to a point which has been raised by several colleagues. of course, many have referred to the lisbon strategy, to the question of the increasingly necessary mobility of workers and the need for action arising from the need to find appropriate regulation, particularly as regards the portability of occupational pension entitlements. the council must be unanimous in its assessment of the individual proposals you have made or those contained in the report. and one member state clearly says that it is also bound by the parliament's decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mrs schroedter, we do not need to make up legends and criticize the role of germany here too. it was clear already under the finnish presidency which direction we could take, where there is rapprochement and where there is none. so portability in the narrow sense was taken out at the time. we have tried in all the many talks to reach an understanding, an agreement; the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i have received positive signals from the netherlands and portugal - that is, from the forthcoming presidency - through a contribution. if there is still the will to come together, then it is hoped that agreement will still be possible, at least in certain areas.
member of the commission. i think, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate can very easily be described as an impressive one, because in many respects it has clarified the basic logic of the draft directive and of the draft report by mrs oomen-ruijten. it explained the logic of protecting and strengthening the rights of migrant workers while maintaining the financial and long-term balance of these complementary schemes and, in my view, strengthening them, because the apparent injustice of the current solution would, in my view, logically lead to less participation of people in the complementary schemes. in the long term, this approach also means empowerment. i think that modern human society has very little certainty, but there are two certainties that are very deeply felt. one of them, of course, is the certainty that one day death will come, and the other certainty in modern systems is that my pension rights will be protected in a fair way. i think it's a certainty so deep that it's very good to reinforce it at the moment when we have this opportunity. in short, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has shown that the report by mrs oomen-ruijten follows a strong and fair logic of economic and social development in european society, that it improves the situation of mobile workers by protecting dormant rights and by guaranteeing the good acquisition of rights. the debate also made it clear that this report is fully balanced and does not prejudice or undermine existing systems, whatever their national form. let me also touch on the points that were raised in the debate. one of them said that the concept of boosting pension entitlements was being worked on in the proposed report. this dynamism was not in the original proposal, nor, of course, in mrs oomen-ruijten's compromise proposal. ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why i think it is right to give my full support to the rapporteur's proposal, since it creates a good basis for further developments which, as the debate has shown, will be necessary and because, in my view, it is a clear step forward from the status quo.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the presidency is very pleased that the commission has been able to establish that cyprus and malta have achieved a high degree of sustainable convergence and to present proposals on the basis of this for the introduction of the euro in these two countries. at the council meeting on 5 june 2007, the ministers for economic affairs and finance unanimously agreed with the commission's assessment that cyprus and malta fulfil the conditions for adopting the euro. the presidency would therefore very much welcome the fact that the success of cyprus and malta is not overshadowed by procedural issues and that the european parliament, the commission and the council reach a consensual solution. it is in the interest of all of us to avoid uncertainties and delays in the technical and legal preparations of cyprus and malta for the introduction of the euro. i would like to thank the european parliament for its willingness to cooperate. the presidency understands the concern of the european parliament and the desire to have more time to examine convergence reports and commission proposals for council decisions on the introduction of the euro. however, the council and the presidency are bound by the procedures laid down in the ec treaty. the timetable is essentially set out in the rules of the stability and growth pact, including the maastricht reporting regulation. the obligation of the council to consult the european parliament on proposals for the introduction of the euro in member states is laid down in article 122 (2) of the ec treaty. the presidency considers that in the case of cyprus and malta the council has respected this provision of the ec treaty. the council received the two commission proposals for council decisions on 21 and 22 may 2007, in three language versions. the other language versions were sent to the council over the following two weeks. on 25 may the council consulted the european parliament on the two commission proposals. in its request for consultation, the council indicated that it would be desirable for the european parliament to adopt its opinions on the commission's proposals at its plenary session of 18-21 june. these opinions will be available to the council in the composition of heads of state or government on 21 june 2007. although it is not a legal requirement, the presidency would very much welcome the fact that the debate of the heads of state or government could also take account of the position of the european parliament. in any event, the opinions of the european parliament are a prerequisite for the council to be able to adopt its two decisions on the introduction of the euro. the presidency supports in principle the proposals put forward by president barroso in his reply of 13 june 2007 to president pöttering's letter. the presidency considers - as the president of the council, mrs angela merkel, has stated in a letter to the president of the european parliament of 19 june - that this matter concerns primarily the commission and the european parliament.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the rapporteur, mr langen, for the speed with which they have examined the convergence reports on cyprus and malta adopted on 16 may by the european commission and the european central bank. the european council in brussels tomorrow will discuss the enlargement of the euro area to include these two countries and we all hope that on 10 july, following the positive agreement of the european council tomorrow, the ecofin will take the final legal decision on the enlargement of the euro area to include these two countries. both this parliament and the ecofin council of 5 june agreed with the commission and the central bank's analysis of cyprus and malta's compliance with the convergence criteria laid down in the treaty. at the meeting with the coordinators of the committee on economic and monetary affairs of parliament on 7 june, i explained to them that the commission had requested complete and reliable budgetary data from these two countries when drawing up the convergence reports. there is confusion in some of the documents accompanying the draft resolution because data relating to the quarterly financial accounts are confused with data which are reported twice a year by countries in the excessive deficit procedure, data relating to the deficit and the debt. i must reiterate to this house that, in relation to the information needed to take decisions on excessive deficit procedures, there is no reservation on the part of the commission as to the quality of the data sent by malta and cyprus. no kind of reserve. as regards malta, the commission issued an opinion on the criterion of the sustainability of public finances, conditional on the approval by the ecofin council of the annulment of the excessive deficit procedure opened for that country in 2004, and the ecofin council of 5 june confirmed this point, ending the excessive deficit procedure with regard to malta. there is also precedent for conditional approval in the convergence report of the fulfilment of conditions, either on exchange rate stability or on the declaration of an excessive deficit. therefore, there is no exception or special situation with regard to malta's compliance with this criterion. the general procedure has been applied which has been applied in many other cases to many other countries in the past. in the coming weeks, and once the council's positive decision on the enlargement of the euro area to include cyprus and malta has been confirmed, the commission will issue reports on the state of preparation for the changeover to the euro by both countries. i am also aware of the concern of some members on this point. that report on the degree of readiness for the changeover to banknotes and coins is not a convergence report, it is not a convergence criterion and the commission regularly publishes reports and communications on this subject, as we shall do in the coming weeks. in these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, we can predict that on 1 january 2008 the euro area will be enlarged to 15 member states with the accession of cyprus and malta. it is a very positive development for these two countries, for the euro area and for the european union as a whole. the euro is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of european integration and the more citizens enjoy its benefits, the greater the recognition of the union's ability to offer all its citizens greater guarantees of prosperity and social well-being. ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the application of cyprus and malta to join the euro area is the fourth time that the european institutions have spoken on the composition of the area. the first of these was held in 1998 and aimed to determine which countries would initially be part of the euro area on 1 january 1999. at that time it was decided to join the area of eleven member states. two years later, in 2000, the greek application was examined and it was agreed that greece could join the euro area as from 1 january 2001. last year, all the european institutions discussed and agreed that slovenia would be part of the euro area as from 1 january 2007, and finally this request from cyprus and malta, which i hope will be finally approved by the european council and the ecofin council on 10 july. so it is not at all true that the euro area is, as has been said, a closed club. it's a club that's totally open to all members who want to belong to it and who are prepared and meet the conditions to get to that point. after these four procedures for the creation or enlargement of the euro area, there will be 15 member states from next year, two more with an opt-out clause (the united kingdom and denmark) and 10 member states which are not yet part of the area and which i hope will join in the next few years. without making any forecasts as to when they will be able to meet all the conditions for joining the euro area, i think it is safe to say that, for the next few years, year after year, the european institutions will have to decide on new revenue in the area in accordance with the treaty which proclaims the euro as the official currency of the member states of the union. the treaty also lays down, in articles 121 and 122, the criteria for determining whether a member state fulfils the conditions for adopting the single currency and lays down the procedure to be followed by the european institutions. and since the honourable members have prepared a draft resolution on these procedures for consulting parliament on the enlargement of the area, i should like to refer to that aspect in the second part of my speech. the treaty provides for five players to be involved in the procedure: the commission, the european central bank, parliament, the european council and the ecofin council. but the treaty contains no specific provision as to the time limits within which each institution must give its opinion. the four times we have spoken, the timing is similar: first, the application for membership of the euro area by the member state or member states, which is usually submitted at the beginning of the year preceding the year in which the euro area is wished to be joined; second, the assessment by the commission and the european central bank of whether or not the criteria have been met, which is carried out in the spring; third, the final decision by the council, which takes into account the opinion of parliament and the debate in the european council, which is usually taken in the middle of the year preceding the introduction, and finally, the adoption of the euro by the member state or member states on 1 january of the following year. there are a number of conditions for these steps, and i want to mention them because they affect all our institutions. firstly, why is the euro introduced on 1 january? given the enormous legal, economic, fiscal, accounting and practical implications of currency change, it is absolutely inadvisable to contemplate a date other than 1 january for the adoption of the euro, and i believe there is general agreement on this from all sides. secondly, there is a time limit which should be given to the member state to carry out the preparations for the changeover to the euro in an orderly and effective manner and, having the experience we already have in previous enlargements, it can be said that, in the interests of the citizens of the country concerned, who would be the first to suffer the consequences of an unprepared adoption of the euro, it is desirable to complete the decision-making process by the european institutions several months before 1 january, when the banknotes and coins are introduced and the irrevocable exchange rate in the country that is part of the euro comes into force. these are the practical conditions, and of course neither of these is in the commission's hands. what is left for the commission, in coordination with the european central bank, is to adopt the convergence report on whether or not the criteria are met. and the date on which the commission is to adopt the convergence report is determined, first, by the moment when the member state submits the request - the commission cannot decide on behalf of the member state when the request is to be submitted - and, second, by the moment when the commission can have reliable and rigorous data at its disposal in order to be able to make an adequate, rigorous and correct assessment of whether or not those convergence criteria are met. the date of the commission's convergence report therefore depends on when the member state submits the request and on when the commission can have the appropriate, accurate and valuable data to make the assessment. in 1998 and 2000, the commission adopted the convergence reports, in general terms, at the beginning of may. in 2006 and 2007, the approval was made in mid-may because, as from 2005, the deadline for member states to submit data on their budgetary positions was postponed by one month, from 1 march to 1 april. this has been done in order to obtain reliable and accurate data on the budgetary execution of the candidate country for the euro area in the previous year. experience has shown that the notifications on 1 march did not contain all the precise data needed to give us a fair idea of how the previous year's budget had been closed. in these circumstances, and given that cyprus and malta met the exchange rate stability criterion on 2 may this year, the commission has had two weeks, as it did last year in the case of slovenia, to complete the preparation and adoption of the convergence reports. what i want to say to you with this perhaps too detailed presentation is that all the institutions have a sense of the time limits within which we have to take decisions in this procedure. the time available to parliament is determined, on the one hand, by the approval of the convergence report by the commission and the european central bank, but also, on the other hand, by the dates that the council decides for its decisionmaking procedure, both in the european council and in the meeting of the ecofin council, and that is obviously not in the hands of the commission. in any event, the president of the commission, mr barroso, has written a letter to president pöttering showing the commission's readiness to explore how to enable each institution to exercise in the best possible way the powers which the treaty confers on us in this procedure and the commission wants to reiterate to you today, i want to reiterate to you personally today, in response to this parliament's draft resolution, our willingness to find the form, the procedure, an agreement between the three institutions to improve the way we work, given the objective limitations with which we have to do so in order to take decisions in this matter. in any case, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on economic and monetary affairs knows perfectly well, and you all should know that the commission and i myself are of course at your disposal for all information available before these deadlines expire - on the economic situation of the applicant countries, on the degree of compliance with the convergence criteria - even before the member states submit their applications.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. before i come to malta, cyprus and the procedure, let me make a few preliminary remarks on the euro. the euro is undoubtedly a very successful project. it's stable inside and out. we should not forget that in today's debate. internally, with low inflation rates, externally, by the fact that it has become the second most important currency in the world, that it is very stable against the dollar. this didn't just fall out of the sky. it is the result of a structure in which the member states and the commission have the main responsibility: the maastricht criteria of the stability and growth pact - which have already been softened under the leadership of commissioner almunia - the deficit procedure, clear statistical documents and the independence of the european central bank. only if all these factors are combined will the euro remain a stable currency in the long term. i say this as a preliminary remark because the procedure has yet to be discussed. of course the contract is clear. but the treaty also states that the european parliament must be consulted. i am not going to say that we are not going to be reduced to a residual size. the commission - i have just heard that - has done everything right, and parliament must find its time window. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. we shall not then be able to adopt these things as quickly as we have been asked to do for the third time. i say this very clearly: parliament cannot be treated as a residual member, by anyone! i am glad that we can support the expansion from 13 to 15 participating countries. malta and cyprus requested a convergence report under article 121 in february with a view to accession. if we examine the data available - the commissioner has described the data problems that undoubtedly exist - we must note the following: cyprus, which has been a long-term participant in monetary system ii, which has been complying with long-term interest rate requirements since 5 may, where per capita income is good at 85% of the eu average, and which shows high convergence, nevertheless had a problem with the data, namely with the quarterly financial accounts. that was also discussed on 3 may. we should also examine the clarity of the data in terms of the commission's responsibility. it is not enough for the commission to say that we need the data and the member states are supplying it. the commission is responsible for ensuring that these data are correct! we have seen this in the case of greece: the commission did not carry out a sufficient examination of greece, and six months later we were surprised. cyprus fulfils the conditions and cyprus also - which was a critical point - adjusted the central bank law, although not until long after the request for the convergence report was made, namely on 15 march, i.e. over a month later. but the law has been adjusted, inflation is low, public debt is still above 60%, but it is moving in the right direction. we can therefore say today that we fully support the accession of cyprus. i am sure that the european parliament will do so. the situation is similar in malta, with one exception: we support malta's accession. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy voted on monday by a large majority - 39 votes in favour for malta and 38 votes in favour with one abstention for cyprus - almost unanimously in favour of the accession of the two countries. but in malta we had the problem that at the moment when the convergence report was presented, the deficit procedure was not yet completed. the commission has presented a convergence report which does not comply with article 2 of the protocol on the convergence criteria. it provides that the deficit procedure must be closed at the time of the examination. that's a fact. we have accepted the report, but the commission should not say that it has done everything right and that it is only this evil parliament that is disturbing it in its discussions with the council. finally, on our motion for a resolution: we have received the reports and letters from commission president barroso and from mrs merkel. mrs merkel is facing a difficult procedure. it must hear all 26 other member states. mr barroso only needs a commission decision. i agree that we should decide, although not all our wishes have been met, but that is why we are calling for an interinstitutional agreement. in this agreement, which is to be adopted by the end of 2007, we ask the council and the commission to reach an agreement on the timetable. otherwise, next time - and this will probably be slovakia - we will insist on our right to a consultation period of at least two months. then we will not carry this time-course that we have carried for the third time with us the next time. in this sense, we welcome the accession of cyprus and malta. we are asking the commission and the council to provide adequate consultation conditions for the european parliament!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. both malta and the greek part of cyprus meet the maastricht criteria. it is therefore logical to extend the euro area to include both countries. if it were up to me and us, other european union member countries would also be happy to join the euro area if they meet the criteria. this can only be good for the european union. however, there is one point i would like to address: unfortunately, cyprus has missed the opportunity to include both parts of cyprus in the euro zone and thus also to set a signal for the reunification of the island of cyprus on the basis of a bicommunal, bi-zonal solution. this is very unfortunate, because it will make the wall in cyprus bigger, not smaller.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i shall confine myself to the procedure today and not go into the many other points raised. i can fully agree with mr langen's assessment of malta and cyprus and with parliament's approval of the substance. so i'm focusing on the process. i simply take as a starting point the words of minister of state gloser, who said that we should not look primarily at the procedure. it was about understanding, wishing and testing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but next time we shall also use the procedure which parliament has for such matters. we fully understand the constraints of the council with its calendar of meetings. the commission's constraints, the deadline of 1 january, all of this is understandable in parliament. but if, on the other hand, it is not understood that we in parliament also have a certain procedure and that we are now, for the first time, unable to observe properly one of the basic rules in this procedure, for example, concerning the time limits for translation, then the next time will have the corresponding consequences. so we can only press for an agreement between the institutions. otherwise the council would have to ensure that parliament is not consulted in future. it has been said that this is enshrined in the relevant treaty, and if it is enshrined in the treaty, it must be adhered to. the german foreign office and all foreign offices in the european context have tried time and again not to make parliament too powerful. but this is not the case in other areas. but one area that is very important to me is the database. that is why we want to give parliament sufficient attention to this. we have greece, we have experienced hungary. we take it upon ourselves to ask the commission to give a guarantee that the data on which the decision to join is based are, to the extent possible, verified in such a way that they can be assumed to be correct. i am referring only to the hungarian minister of finance, who, after what happened in hungary, publicly philosophized about the possibilities of variation that a minister of finance has in the data submitted to brussels. the ecb president trichet also pointed out that the collection of data in the european union is problematic. we believe it is crucial that the commission does not refer to eurostat for such problems, but that it bears responsibility for them. we also want to strengthen the commission vis-à-vis the member states. it is not possible for the commission to be obliged to comply with such requests, but the member states continue to restrict the commission's control possibilities where necessary by all means.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank you very much, mr langen, as rapporteur, for both parts of your contribution: you have voted in favour of malta and cyprus joining the euro, despite the time constraints you raised in the second part of your speech. it is important that we can achieve this before the various deadlines, as commissioner almunia said earlier, have expired. both countries need a certain amount of time to prepare for this step, so that the citizens concerned in malta and cyprus are not the ultimate victims of too slow preparation. i would like to make one more specific reference to the fact that the european council expressed to the president of the european parliament that there was a difficult situation, that there was perhaps too little time. i would also like to return to the question of what is feasible. what is possible even before certain official deadlines have expired? the timetables are set. we cannot deviate from this because there are provisions in the ec treaty. the other question is to what extent the consultation between ecofin and your committee gives you the information you need to be able to monitor and be prepared. the question is also whether you have any advance reports from the countries that have applied for membership. i would like to say again, in the light of various questions raised in the debate: on the one hand, many points are set out. but where there are possibilities for change - as mrs merkel said in her letter to mr pöttering and as the president of the commission also said - we must remain in the debate by means of appropriate proposals from the commission in order to identify these possibilities. everything else has to wait. i therefore ask for your understanding that i cannot make any commitments on this point for the council today.
member of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate in this last intervention in the debate my personal and commission congratulations to cyprus and malta for the effort they have made to get here and for the effort they are making to successfully introduce the euro, both for their economy and for their citizens. i think this shows once again that the euro area is not a closed club and that joining the euro is not only an obligation for the member states, but a great opportunity both for those who want to share the single currency with 318 million other europeans and for the countries that already belong to the economic and monetary union. i think it is therefore a good decision to support, as does the langen report, the accession of cyprus and malta to the euro area. two comments on the fulfilment of the criteria: mr langen's speech questioned the way in which cyprus and malta fulfil the criteria or the way in which the commission's convergence report has assessed the fulfilment of the criteria. i should say that the repeal of the excessive deficit procedure in which malta was involved, which took place at the last ecofin council on the commission's proposal, is a necessary condition for malta to meet the maastricht criterion on this point and what the commission's convergence report said on 16 may, namely that if the ecofin council approved the repeal of the excessive deficit, malta would meet it. we have done so in order not to delay the convergence report, because otherwise we would have had to wait until 5 june to publish the convergence report and you would have had even less time to debate it. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the figures: the deficit and debt figures for cyprus and malta reported under the excessive deficit reporting procedures, which take place twice a year, on 1 april and 1 october, are as reliable - after being analysed by eurostat and published in its opinion on 23 april - as those for the other member states. there is no reservation on the part of eurostat with regard to the figures notified in relation to the deficit and debt. there is no basis for questioning the figures for cyprus and malta and not questioning the figures for france, italy, spain, portugal, germany, sweden, denmark or any other member state. no foundation. there are other difficulties with other figures: there are those with quarterly figures for financial accounts in the national accounts, with unemployment statistics at the moment of the german labour force survey or with french figures, but that is the everyday statistical work, and if parliament wants to give more resources to eurostat, welcome. if parliament wants to support the work of eurostat, you know that i, as the commissioner responsible for eurostat, always appreciate the support of parliament, the commission and eurostat, but i do not want there to be any doubt about the validity, the quality of the figures against which we are assessing whether cyprus and malta meet the convergence criteria. as for the procedure, mr langen, i wanted to address you directly on this point. there is no marginalisation, no will to marginalise, no reason why the commission should want to marginalise parliament or make parliament's work in this debate more difficult. on the contrary, i have expressed, and president barroso has also expressed in his letter, the full availability of the commission and the commissioner for economic and monetary affairs. i want you to listen to me, mr langen, because i am telling you that - i repeat what the president of the commission said in the letter to mr poettering and what i said on 7 june in the econ committee to the coordinators in his presence - we are fully prepared to share information with you, to anticipate the information available. but what they cannot ask the commission to do is to consider that a country definitely meets the deficit criterion when the council has not yet abolished the excessive deficit procedure. and next year, if slovakia makes a claim, we will also have that problem, because slovakia is now included in an excessive deficit procedure which can only be abrogated - if it can be abrogated - once the final figures for the 2007 budget have been validated by eurostat. we will therefore not be able to anticipate, nor will the ecofin council be able to anticipate, decisions on the abrogation of the excessive deficit procedure for slovakia before the dates on which the excessive deficit procedure for malta has been abrogated this year. we can anticipate the convergence report by saying that if the ecofin council approves the derogation, slovakia fulfils the criterion. it's a hypothesis. but we cannot say in february that slovakia meets the deficit criterion when the derogation can only be approved in may or june next year. just as we cannot make a rigorous assessment - and you are right to ask us to make a rigorous assessment - of whether countries meet the maastricht criteria, the convergence criteria, before we know in may 2008 the spring economic forecasts, which cannot be approved or published earlier by the commission and its services, because if we anticipate the spring forecasts they will be winter forecasts and will not be valid for knowing what the economic situation and the spring economic data are. i therefore want to make it clear to this parliament that next year's convergence report cannot be brought forward before may. from there we have to talk, we have to agree between the commission, parliament and council how we can work rigorously, coherently and cooperatively to reach sound decisions that allow us all to work rigorously and make decisions in good time so that the citizens of the next countries to join the 13 current members of the euro area do not suffer the consequences of a late decision and poor preparation for the introduction of euro coins and banknotes. this is the attitude and conviction of the commission, the agreement between the three institutions. it is desirable. it is pointless that in every enlargement of the euro area we are debating here, not about the countries that are joining and the beneficial consequences for their citizens, but about procedures. we must solve this problem, but we will only solve it by maintaining a cooperative attitude between the three institutions and by taking account of the objective limitations with which the three institutions have to make this decision.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i have to refer to the last remarks of commissioner almunia. i'm pretty disappointed in the way he's interpreted me and not reproduced me. firstly, i did not say that the data for cyprus and malta were worse than those for the other countries. but the commission has sold us bad data as good data for portugal, hungary and greece. that's a fact! secondly, it is not a matter of attacking the countries, but of the commission taking responsibility. thirdly, on 3 may 2007, the commission presented document com ((2007) 0230) report to the european parliament and the council quality report on the quarterly financial accounts of the state . it has been criticised by slovenia, malta and cyprus. the reasoning of my report says no more and no less.
- i'm not going to. if that is what you say, and i have no doubt about it, then of course you must have an answer. the competent ladies and gentlemen in my area will look into the matter, so that you will then get an answer.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
you were the cause of this unrest. i reject your accusations against the colleague here. that is not the way to behave in parliament! (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, madam. i didn't doubt it.
in writing. i voted against the report on the portability directive. the real objective of strengthening the crossborder mobility of workers between member states has clearly been missed. on average, only 10% of all workers in the eu receive an occupational pension. the high minimum standards just adopted mean that there is little interest in setting up or expanding occupational pension schemes because of the expected cost increases of at least 20%. i fear that what workers and employers have created at the national level for mutual benefit over decades is now being called into question. the minimum age for the acquisition of occupational pensions has been abolished. the five-year limitation period has been abolished. the minimum standards are also intended to apply retroactively, which is in clear contradiction with the principle of protection of legitimate expectations. i also voted for the abolition of the dynamisation, which the ecj is likely to interpret as a 'fair adjustment' and interpret as an obligation. if employees who have changed their company are treated in the same way as employees who are still employed, the german federal council calculates that additional costs of 30% will be incurred. eu commissioner špidla has announced that he will present a new proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against the risks of exposure to carcinogens and to the use of carcinogens in the manufacture of foodstuffs.
in writing. i voted against the portability directive because it has failed to achieve its main objective of strengthening the crossborder mobility of workers between member states. the system of transfer of occupational pension rights is only a recommendation to the member states. i have therefore repeatedly advised that the directive should be rejected altogether, as it has become superfluous.
in writing. the decision is undoubtedly logical on the basis of economic criteria. from a political point of view, this decision is regrettable. this is a missed opportunity for both sides of the island of cyprus to join the eurozone together. instead of bringing the north and south together with a common euro currency, the rifts between the two parts of the island are being widened.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i welcome the fact that there is this joint motion for a resolution on an international arms trade treaty. because time is of the essence . the world's arms spending and exports are exploding. according to the stockholm international peace research institute (sipri), the equivalent of 900 billion euros was spent on military purposes last year, or 137 euros per capita. this was 3.5% more than in 2005. over the past decade, military spending worldwide has increased by 37%. in the international arms trade, sipri's new yearbook on armaments and disarmament found an overall increase of 50% since 2002. the two largest exporters by far were again the usa and russia. germany, with $9.2 billion, 6.9 billion euros, in arms exports between 2002 and 2006, moved up to third place ahead of france. the eu is the world leader in arms exports. last year alone, germany exported $3.9 billion worth of arms, more than double the $1.5 billion in 2005. france has been arming sudan, belgium has been supplying arms to the autocrat kabila in the congo, among other things to enable him to massacre the opposition. after the conflict is heated up, the eu will also come with military operations in africa, congo, sudan, etc. the arsonists are put out with gasoline. the eu and its member states must stop this business. arms exports are a violation of human rights worldwide. arms exports are killing people all over the world. let's put an end to this trade in death!
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular. we have evaluated the recommendations and largely agree with the evaluation and, of course, with the conclusions of parliament on the meda programme. it was found that the support provided by the meda programme was appropriate and made an important contribution to the achievement of the meda objectives. it was also recognised that the aid was in line with the development plans and needs of the beneficiary countries. i would like to make this very specifically because i remember certain discussions. the council welcomes the efforts of the commission which have led to significant improvements in the speed and efficiency of planning under meda ii. the meda programme has now been completed and the transition to the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument has been completed as of 1 january 2007. the neighbourhood and partnership instrument has been created as a tailor-made instrument for the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy. the european parliament's call for cooperation between mediterranean partner countries to be strengthened is reflected in the southern regional programme, which has been endowed with €343.3 million until 2010. we share your view that the continuation of all the objectives of the barcelona process is of crucial importance for the whole region. the fact that we have managed to tackle and develop together, despite the tensions in the region, shows that the barcelona process, the euro-mediterranean dialogue, is still the appropriate framework for achieving change in the mediterranean. the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, through its interparliamentary dialogue, makes an important contribution to the deepening of north-south relations. whether civil society, government or parliament we have the objective of advancing the mediterranean partnership, despite our different structures and tasks, and we want to contribute to it together. i now turn to the part of the report dealing with financial aid to the palestinians. first of all, however, i should like to say that we are following with great concern the recent developments in the palestinian territories, and particularly in the gaza strip. the heavy fighting between fatah and the radical islamist hamas last week has claimed over 100 lives and injured a large number of people. the hamas militias have taken de facto control of the area, using brutal violence against the legitimate national security forces, civilians and humanitarian workers. president abbas has therefore been forced to dissolve the government of national unity, declare a state of emergency and set up an emergency government. the internal palestinian reconciliation achieved in mecca in february with the help of saudi arabia is thus obsolete, and hamas's participation in the government is over. the humanitarian situation in gaza, already difficult, has also deteriorated further. hospitals are completely overwhelmed and medically understaffed. the vast majority of the population in gaza is dependent on food aid. aid agencies have had to suspend some of their work because they fear for the safety of their staff - and rightly so, as the deaths of two unrwa staff members in the fighting have shown. the european union's foreign ministers called at the general council on monday for an immediate end to the violence and assured president abbas of their full support for his decisions. they decided to resume normal relations with the new government of fayyad without delay and declared their intention to create the conditions for the resumption of direct financial and practical assistance. the foreign ministers also reaffirmed their determination not to abandon the people of gaza in their humanitarian emergency. the further detailed consequences to be drawn from the changed situation are currently being discussed. the launch of the tim financing mechanism by the european union in june 2006 has been instrumental in addressing the most urgent needs of the suffering palestinian population. the structure of the tem is transparent and the mechanism has proved to be a flexible and effective instrument. the european commission and the member states have already provided over eur 300 million in aid directly to the palestinian people through tim last year and continue to do so, especially in the current situation. this is something that must be emphasized and stressed again and again, because the public is sometimes told something different. we therefore welcome the decision of the quartet to extend the mandate of the tem for a further three months until the end of september. the report rightly calls on israel to pay the palestinians the customs and tax revenue that has been withheld. the european union has also repeatedly called on israel to do so, most recently in the statement of the general council of 18 june. the israeli government has announced - we have had a dialogue with the israeli foreign minister, mrs livni - that it is now ready to pay. we also expect it to provide a much-needed boost to the palestinian economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european union is also already taking action on the necessary reforms of public finances, including financial control and auditing, which you mentioned. the commission is supporting the palestinian ministry of finance with technical assistance in further developing transparent structures for the palestinian budget. the european union's objective is and remains: two states israel and palestine living side by side in peace with each other and with their neighbours in the region. we want to help create better living conditions for the palestinians in the long term, rather than engage in crisis management. the last few weeks have made it abundantly clear why this is so urgently needed.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou for her excellent report. it comes at a key moment as it concerns cooperation with the southern mediterranean area, whilst the strengthened neighbourhood policy is also being implemented. i shall speak first about the main findings before turning to the current situation in the palestinian territories and our response to that. firstly, with regard to the performance of meda over the last 10 years, i am pleased about parliament’s positive appreciation of how this programme has contributed to realising the objectives of the barcelona declaration. further progress can and should still be achieved, but i share parliament’s view that the barcelona process remains the most appropriate framework for the mediterranean policy. this process is now supported by the neighbourhood policy which will help to develop bilateral relations and put into practice many of the aspirations of the barcelona agenda. in terms of effectiveness and thoroughness, the findings of parliament and those of the court of auditors encourage the commission to continue further improving its performance. it is clear that we will also take into account the different suggestions from the two institutions. i undertake to continue the efforts of the commission in this regard, and we have already launched a final evaluation of the meda regulation. the results should be available in early 2008. all our efforts need to be seen in the context of the ongoing and progressive management improvements which have been introduced by the commission since 2001. i entirely share parliament’s view on the issues of fostering greater social cohesion and sustainable economic development. equally, i share your willingness to pursue the objectives of the barcelona process as identified in the report. we have taken numerous initiatives in this regard through thematic support, for instance in the areas of good governance, democracy and gender. lastly, as regards visibility, i have made a great personal priority of visibility, on which we are making progress. your report, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, clearly analyses the strengths and weaknesses of the meda programme. it acknowledges the improvements that have been achieved, but also points out where it is still necessary to make further progress. the new enpi regulation, in force since the beginning of this year, offers enormous new opportunities. therefore, we are looking forward to continued dialogue and your constructive support. turning to the current situation in the palestinian territories, we are more than ever at a critical juncture. we are following the situation day to day, even hour to hour, and for the moment we are addressing the urgent needs and will probably have to continue doing so. as our council president said at the general affairs and external relations council on monday, we had a long and intensive discussion on the middle east. there was broad agreement on the need to support president abbas and his new government led by prime minister fayyad. this has also been the line taken by the quartet. it has already been said that the eu will resume normal relations with this government immediately. at the same time, we cannot abandon the humanitarian needs of the population in gaza, and we will never let the palestinian population down. with regard to assistance, there was a strong wish to develop the conditions for urgent, practical and financial support. that includes: extending the emergency relief under the temporary international mechanism for another three months, this time with the complete cooperation of salam fayyad; continuing humanitarian assistance, including to gaza; exploring options to relaunch direct financial support, including the building of institutions; supporting the palestinian civilian police through the resumption of the eupol copps; and hopefully resuming the eu border assistance mission, eu bam rafah. i made it clear to the council and to prime minister fayyad that resuming direct assistance to the palestinian authority implies certain technical conditions – that means controlling conditions – in terms of audit control and verification. i can tell you that we are already in touch with prime minister fayyad and his staff on how this can be achieved. indeed, a meeting took place yesterday with my head of delegation and the prime minister. as a first step, we intend to pay eur 22 million directly from a reserve to help towards clearing the arrears of the palestinian authority, particularly to the private sector so that it sees there is some movement. the tim will also continue for the moment to channel funds vital for the palestinians in both an accountable and transparent way. it will operate, as i say, in support of the fayyad government as of now. in this regard, let me thank you and welcome the political agreement on the extra eur 90 million for the tim. i also hope that the procedures for adoption can be accelerated. as the president-in-office of the council has already said, the most important thing is that the withheld palestinian funds, for which we have called so often on the israelis to release, will hopefully finally be sent to the government of mahmoud abbas. finally, let me take this occasion to thank parliament once again for its support, which has been, and will continue to be, essential. under the tim, a european initiative, we have provided high levels of support reaching more than one million palestinians – medicines, hospital supplies, fuel for essential public services, allowances both for the poor and the public sector. that would not have been possible without your support, and now for the future we also need your support for all the items i have just mentioned.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank our rapporteur very much. it is almost a pity for your report that it is now completely overshadowed by the one question of whether it is justifiable to continue to give money to this difficult region or not, because it is now all about palestine. i would like to thank her for her remarkable work, because we believe that we have to learn from this experience much more for future programmes. commissioner, one of my requests is that we should avoid creating major gaps in our programmes in the future. the eu is a specialist in making everything new after seven years. i believe that the budget controllers could make much greater progress in the long run if we could rely on more consistency in the programmes. we see today that the news has already caught up with this report by our rapporteur on several occasions. it has done a great deal of work on this difficult subject, particularly as regards palestine, with on-the-spot visits and a clarifying olaf report with hours of discussions on what is certainly the most difficult area in the world. we are faced for the third time with the question of whether it is justifiable to allocate european union funds to this area. we in the committee on budgetary control said yes, despite the reservations of many colleagues, mainly for humanitarian reasons, because we know that this money has a positive effect on the ground and that this money would be sorely lacking if it were no longer available. the council also gave an answer to this question the day before yesterday. we would like to remind you that the european parliament is in the boat as budgetary legislator and discharge authority. we also want to support the legitimate government of palestine and we are not refusing to accept the humanitarian tragedy in gaza. but it is precisely because of the civil war that the european commission is particularly accountable to us and must be prepared to do so, especially since budgetary aid is the most risky form of aid. i was pleased to hear commissioner ferrero-waldner announce that eu funds are increasingly being linked to a successful reform policy in this area as well. we cannot accept that our aid is being systematically cut back, even for humanitarian and political reasons.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, for her report. the meda part in particular is very well drawn up and shows the necessary steps that need to be taken. a really solid piece of work, congratulations! i would like to limit myself for the time being to tim, the palestinian relief fund. the draft report makes it clear that the commissioner has done a real job here. i congratulate you on this, commissioner, because the eu was forced to stop all aid to the palestinian authority. we had no choice. we cannot support terrorists. we have not done so in the past, and we should not do so in the future. but individual suffering must always be fought where it occurs. the european union has found a solution in tim which meets the high moral standards of europeans in the disbursement of aid. in this context, i believe that criticism of minor accounting errors and inaccuracies should be taken into account, but please do not focus on them. it is a project that has been a little bit hot-wired. we all know that we were under certain constraints. i do not agree with the underlying criticism of the israeli strategy of withholding tax payments first. we cannot blame the israelis for not having also transferred the money to the terrorists, so we should leave it at that. moreover, recent developments have shown that it was right to maintain a fistfight, which can now benefit president abbas and the moderate forces in two ways. in this context, i would also like to commend israel for its decision to open the erez crossing for humanitarian reasons, thereby directly assisting palestinians fleeing hamas. in conclusion, i would like to thank the local volunteers, because the help must be provided by local people. the european parliament is grateful to them for their humanitarian work. it's not easy. we are very grateful to you.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. i should like to thank mrs batzeli in particular for this report drawn up on the initiative of the socialist group. it is a matter of concern to the commission, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to that question. the first and foremost responsibility for implementation lies with the member states, but we in the european union also have a responsibility to respond to this growing phenomenon. the commissioner has also presented the strategy for the rights of the child. this is certainly another step towards developing something together. we can't wait until the suburbs are burning again to do something about it. we must also, above all, have an integrated approach to solving social problems. we must ensure that youth unemployment is reduced, that youth poverty is reduced and that social imbalances are corrected. we have of course the structural funds, which we can continue to use; the member states have many opportunities in this area. commissioner, you have made this very clear - the daphne programme offers a wealth of really good opportunities for tackling the phenomenon of violence across borders and the youth in action programme offers such positive measures. i believe that the member states must do much more to provide effective psychosocial support for families in difficulty. we need to strengthen the role of schools in the fight against violence and juvenile delinquency. we have a responsibility to help with our lifelong learning programme. i believe that media responsibility needs to be emphasized even more. here too, there is a responsibility to reduce the scenes of violence. i think it is necessary to ban violent videos and games for young people. i would like to thank the commissioner. the children's and young people's telephone hotline is an important contribution to supporting young people and making them heard.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i thank the rapporteur. we know that it is an important step that juvenile delinquency has finally been put on the eu agenda and that a community framework programme is really sending a positive signal. it is true that we must put prevention in place so that children and young people do not become violent in the first place and so that social hot spots do not arise in the first place. i am sorry, however, that so many people here nod their heads when it is claimed that the parents' professional activity is to blame, while at the same time they stand by and watch or contribute to the closure of youth and children's institutions, the children being sent to the streets, as it were, and being denied these active opportunities by society. i think that one of the main issues is very important, namely the violence in the media. i was disappointed, commissioner frattini, that you spoke so little about it and that your report on child protection also mentioned it so little. we know that children are exposed to horror, pornography and violence at a very early age. in germany, 800 000 children are still watching television at 10 p.m., in the usa, we know that a young person of 18 has already seen over 200 000 scenes of violence. this shows how important it is that we deal with this issue. killer games, whether played on mobile phones or in real life, that train in simulated killing, create a loss of empathy in adolescents. i would have liked the commission to do a little more. we shall also be tabled amendments to the report on the rights of the child. they want a ban. the member states must examine more closely whether there is a need to improve the protection of young people in the media. we can't look away, we can't belittle or flatter.
the president of the council. i refer again to the starting point. the nato council in prague a few years ago also voted among the partners on the new challenges we are facing and the possible new responses that nato may need to find to such challenges. nato has set up working groups to deal with this. the debate continued in riga, but no final result has yet been reached. for example, we agree on the common threat analysis. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the nuclear agreement with the united states. we believe that the issue of missile defence should be discussed in general in the context of nato and not in the context of the european union. i can only confirm once again that it has not been and will not be the subject of the discussions in the european council.
the president of the council. as far as the question of citizen participation is concerned, this is a national decision. nor is it necessary for the presidency to specify. the countries themselves are responsible for this. i would like to say again that there has been a general movement on this issue, particularly between russia and the united states. it was agreed that there would be intensive discussions on the subject and that a basis of trust would be created. it's still open. as you know, mr putin has recently made similar proposals to the united states. i think we should wait for these conversations.
my question is directly related to that. is there any position on the proposal by the eu presidency to include azerbaijan in this missile system? secondly, how does the eu's or the council's position on the us missile system correspond to the nato position, or is there a difference? if there is a difference, what is it? thirdly, does the council of the european union intend to deal with the question of the missile system at some point?
the president of the council. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. there are international and european laws which must be observed. i assume that russia is bound by international law. russia is not testing for itself and saying that if the result is there, then this pipeline is generally environmentally friendly. the other partners must also be taken into account. i repeat what i said in one of the previous question time sessions: 'in the interests of the companies operating this pipeline, we are making sure that there is complete transparency, so that citizens are not frightened, and that the mines and bombs still lying on the seabed do not endanger the people living on this pipeline. this is going to be a very intense test. here, everyone, especially the companies, is obliged to have this test carried out, so that it does not depend solely on the green light and approval from russia.
the president of the council. the council has not discussed this question on the aspect raised by the honourable member. the physical distance or proximity to the 27 member states is not the only factor determining the relationship between the individual countries and territories of the european union. relations with the overseas countries and territories are governed by part four of the ec treaty and council decisions. the current council decision, adopted on 27 november 2001 and amended on 19 march 2007, expires on 31 december 2013. before that time, the council will review the situation.
the president of the council. i do not need to say in detail that the complexes linked to your question are non-european territories, but they are part of the european union because, by virtue of their connection to the motherland, they are, so to speak, members of the european union. you know very well that countries like andorra and liechtenstein are in europe, but they are not members of the european union. the continuation of the affiliation of these territories and the transfer of legislation to them will be determined by a review of the situation in the council.
these are often overseas territories where eu member states have military bases. i would like to mention another case in particular: in cyprus there are areas called sovereign military bases which belong to the united kingdom but are not part of the european union. my question in this context is: is it a viable situation that there are territories of another eu member state in one eu member state that are not part of the european union?
the president of the council. i can only explain this to you in the way that, as you all know, there have been special developments on the island of cyprus and that it has just been granted a special status. in this respect, the old rules still apply, but i imagine that they will certainly be changed once the cyprus problem has been resolved.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as you are aware, the european commission is primarily responsible for monitoring the correct implementation of eu legislation by the member states. the council therefore does not wish to comment on the specific case mentioned.
the president of the council. you have just said that the commission is the guardian of the treaties. she'll have to check that. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have had a long debate in the european union and in the member states on the implementation of the relevant directives. the requirement was also that we should transpose this into national law in all member states. this is the basis, and as with all other legislation where there is european law, citizens who feel they are being discriminated against have the possibility of taking appropriate action, including bringing an action before the european court of justice.
the president of the council. i am not sure that this is the case. the whole political situation in kosovo continues to be determined by the status process. with the referral of the status proposal by un special envoy ahtisaari to the un security council, this process has been placed under the ultimate responsibility of the security council. the foreign ministers of the european union have repeatedly and unequivocally expressed their full support for special envoy ahtisaari and their conviction that the ahtisaari package can provide an essential basis for the sustainable economic and political development of kosovo and contribute to strengthening stability in the region as a whole. following the failure of the g8 summit of heads of state or government to reach an agreement on kosovo, the eu presidency called on all parties concerned to intensify their efforts to secure the adoption of a new un security council resolution as soon as possible. the european union continues to closely monitor the status process. the european union is making substantial preparations for its contribution to the future international civilian presence in kosovo after the status issue has been resolved. the european union is ready to play a significant role in the possible future international civilian presence in close coordination with other international actors. this will be done by deploying planning teams to prepare the possible future activities of an eusr and an esdp mission in the field of police and justice. the completion of these preparations depends on the further development of the status process itself and on the status solution itself. as in the past, significant assistance from the international community in general and the european union in particular will be needed in the future to improve the economic framework and social situation in kosovo. this can only be done in close coordination with the international financial institutions and local partners. once an accurate cost estimate is available, which depends of course on the status solution, the commission will draw up an overall financial package, which will also be the subject of a donor conference. however, this donor conference cannot take place until the status of kosovo has been clarified.
my additional question to you is this: is the status of kosovo not to be resolved in the european parliament's interest? does the council know that the european parliament has voted 75% in favour of the ahtisaari plan plus international independence plus immediate warning against further delay? does the council consider that this is a line which should be adopted by other institutions? what does the council think of the sudden statement to postpone the whole thing by six months, which the european parliament has explicitly warned against by a large majority, or of the remarks made by mrs del ponte, who is not responsible for this at all?
the president of the council. we are, of course, familiar with the debates and resolutions of the european parliament. but i would also like to refer to a detailed discussion in the foreign ministers' council last monday which will continue tomorrow evening in brussels. it was once again made clear that although the ahtisaari proposals are a basis, we need a decision within the united nations for a solution to be accepted. it would be completely wrong now - and this has also been discussed with the governments of the neighbouring regions - to take a unilateral decision now. i believe we have also succeeded in convincing our partner, the united states, that a multilateral decision under international law is necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it will certainly include kosovo. i would like to point out that a unilateral decision would not be a good basis for other decisions to be taken. i know there's a lot of impatience in the region. we have, for example, once again expressed our thanks to the albanian government for the moderating influence it has exercised in recent weeks and months, and for its statement that an international decision is needed and not the unilateral recognition of individual countries.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are aware - and this was also raised by mr posselt's question - of the importance of creating economic stability alongside political stability. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all know the circumstances. on possible perspectives you have addressed the energy community already existing in the region decisions must be taken when the previous political decision has been made. but you also know from other debates, including those on neighbouring regions, what opportunities the european union has offered to these countries to promote regional cooperation. i am sure that the aspect you have mentioned is of great significance.
the president of the council. article 28 of the treaty on european union lays down the principles governing the financing of civilian and military crisis management operations. operations with military or defence implications may not be financed from community funds. athena is the mechanism created by the council in 2004 to manage the financing of the common costs of such operations. the common costs are less than 10% of the total additional costs of an operation. the remainder of the expenditure is financed directly by the member states on a 'costs are borne where they are incurred' basis. athena is managed under the supervision of a special committee composed of representatives of the member states, who are accountable to their national parliaments through their respective ministers. as for operation althea, both the european union and nato are paying their share of shared facilities, personnel, etc. nato does not receive any reimbursement from athena for services rendered.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i do not wish to speculate on the future of the european constitutional treaty today, on the eve of the european council. we shall see what debates are held and what consequences they have for the provisions of the treaty. secondly, the committee is composed of the ministers of the member states, who, because the contributions come from the member states, are ultimately accountable to their parliaments. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question.
the reality is a little different. in the subcommittee on security and defence i am told that the eu is going to pay money to nato. now they say it's not being paid. this is interesting. the problem is that we do not get the figures from the national parliaments. and we are not getting it through the committee on budgets or the subcommittee on security and defence. would it be possible for the presidency to compile an overview of the expenditure which has been made so far through this athena mechanism?
mr president, the promotion and safeguarding of human rights is a cornerstone in the foundation of the european union and should be strongly reflected in the strategy on the external dimension of the area of freedom, security and justice. this means that we not only ask the commission and the council to produce human rights compliance reports on external dimension activities, we also suggest that the european union agency on fundamental rights assist the eu institutions in assessing the compliance with human rights of eu agreements with third countries. not only should the eu institutions promote and safeguard human rights in the eu’s own activities, the conclusions of the work in the temporary committee on the alleged use of countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners were clear. where and when the eu concludes that serious breaches in the protection of fundamental rights have taken place on its territory or by cooperating partner countries, action should be taken to reveal this and to guarantee that security concerns never undermine respect for the fundamental rights of individuals. democratic accountability and the external dimension of the area of freedom, security and justice is fundamental, and it provides for high standards by the eu in its efforts to improve cooperation between the eu and international organisations, such as the council of europe, the osce and the united nations.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. asylum is a universal right. that is why we need a european response, and we have already done some of that. the commission's proposals are very good, and i would like to put it on the record that we can be very proud of our commissioner for home affairs. he's doing a very good job. our rapporteur, mr pirker, has made some excellent proposals. if someone manages to get support across party lines on such a difficult issue, then it is a document of excellent work. so thank you for that. although no council representative is present, i would like to thank the council. we could not have organized this evening and taken the many decisions if we had not had an active german council in the last few months. i just want to say thank you for that. the internal politicians are the hardworking politicians, as you can see from the clock. we're still working now. i would like to thank you for that and not use up all my speaking time so that we can go home earlier.
member of the commission. mr president, on behalf of commissioner mccreevy, i would like to thank warmly the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and in particular the rapporteur, mr fruteau, for his excellent work in preparing the report on the review of the remedies directive in the area of public procurement. before listening to members’ remarks, i should like to congratulate mr fruteau on his election to the french parliament. i wish him all the best in this new challenge, and i am sure he will continue to fight for european values from a different perspective. i also want to pay tribute to the committee chairman, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the way in which they conducted the negotiations between our three institutions. public procurement is a cornerstone of the internal market and accounts for about 16% of eu gdp. it is therefore crucial that public procurement markets be open and transparent, guaranteeing fair competition between bidders from different member states. only this will lead to the best value for money for public authorities in terms of procurement. let me underline that the ultimate beneficiaries of this are the european citizens and taxpayers. european public procurement rules contribute to more open, transparent and competitive procurement markets. with the rules in place, we now need to make sure that they are respected. the commission has identified situations where rejected bidders in a public procurement procedure encounter difficulties in seeking legal redress. this is especially the case when the public contract has already been concluded. in such situations a rejected bidder very often cannot reverse the decision, even if he is in the right. the new directive aims to remedy this in two ways. first, by imposing a mandatory 10-day standstill period between the communication of the award decision and the conclusion of the public contract. second, by introducing a new mechanism which enables a national court to declare public contracts ‘ineffective’. ineffectiveness implies that the contract is null and void. ineffectiveness is the proposed sanction for contracts which have been illegally awarded to a single supplier without prior transparency and competitive tendering. ineffectiveness is also the proposed sanction where the 10-day standstill period has not been respected and the tenderer’s chances of obtaining the contract have been adversely affected. the commission believes that by strengthening national review procedures in this manner, business will have stronger incentives to bid for contracts anywhere in the eu. adoption of the proposed directive should, therefore, have a major impact, stimulating a further opening-up of the public procurement markets. i draw your attention to the fact that the compromise contains an obligation that member states report to the commission on the specific decisions of national review bodies which are based on the directive. this obligation has been included in the text at the request of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. the commission wishes to underline the principle of loyal cooperation which member states have to observe in fulfilling this obligation. a statement along these lines will be added to the minutes of the council meeting at which the proposed directive is adopted. the report adopted last may by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, under the leadership of mr fruteau, has played a very important role in the negotiations. the compromise that is now on the table as amendment 86 seeks to meet the objectives of the committee and, in particular, its call for a strengthening of national review procedures in the area of public procurement. let me conclude that european companies today need open public procurement markets. effective procedures for seeking redress are essential to make sure that public contracts ultimately go to the company that has made the best offer. this will help to build confidence among businesses and citizens that public procurement procedures are fair and correctly implemented. this new directive constitutes another major step towards more competition in our european single market.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i should like to congratulate mr fruteau on his report. the honourable member knows that i still do not entirely agree with the present time-limit system. i have been working on this subject very closely as rapporteur in the legal affairs committee and i have held a hearing in my constituency. in my report i therefore called for a uniform period of 14 calendar days, starting from the date of accession. i believe that a uniform and simple time-limit system is essential, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has confirmed this view. the legal affairs committee has accepted my proposal without opposition. unfortunately, the vote of the legal affairs committee was ultimately ignored, despite increased cooperation. i would therefore like to point out once again that this form of enhanced cooperation is not really serving its purpose. we are therefore well advised to create clearer conditions in the current debate on the reform of enhanced cooperation. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the distinction between postal and electronic transmission is, in my view, unnecessary. on the other hand, it is to be welcomed that mr fruteau, in cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, has accepted a uniform deadline in order to eliminate the confusion in the original commission proposal as regards the duration of the deadlines and the number of days by calendar and working days. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and the authors of the opinions for their work. i can assure you that in the voting in the trilogue we tried to take account of the interests of the various committees. but there were clear guidelines in the council which unfortunately we were not able to agree with all the positions of parliament. we have reached an agreement on this at first reading. it is always presented as something difficult in constitutional law. i do not think that this compromise is a hasty or inappropriate solution. i hope therefore that the members will agree to this compromise. the legislation we have been discussing here is based on the implementation of the case law of the ecj in the alcatel and halle judgments and on the commission's assertion that illegal direct awards are a major problem for the internal market. we have supported this argument as a parliament, but we have also made it clear - among other things last tuesday when we discussed the arlene mccarthy report - that the consideration of this situation by econometric criteria alone will not be sufficient for parliament in the future, but that we want clearer, more reliable data to support this claim. the main benefits of this new revised appeal directive are that unsuccessful tenderers will have more transparency about the award procedure and will also have better legal protection if they disagree with the award. i believe that this can be a great step forward for the internal market, given that 16% of all gdp shares are covered by public procurement law, if the awarding authorities really respect the spirit of the treaty. at the same time as we declared illegal contracts invalid, we also made it clear that there is no place for the cousin economy in the european union and that those who do not follow the rules cannot hope to have their contracts valid. i believe that this is a major step towards the realisation of a truly single internal market.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to say two basic things in advance on behalf of my group. firstly, i am very pleased that we have reached an agreement with mr fruteau, who has done an excellent job in this area. we're lucky to have him. secondly, i regret that by electing mr fruteau to the national assembly we will be losing a distinguished colleague. i'm sorry we won't see you in our ranks any time soon, mr. fruteau. it is always a pity when we lose particularly good members in this parliament. perhaps i can first of all respond to mr mayer's comments on the much-discussed standstill period. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and mr fruteau have tried to find a simple solution. there was a slight difference: you wanted 14 days, mr fruteau 12 days. but those two days weren't the real problem. the problem was that the council simply did not want a simple solution and we were stuck in the mud in this area. we in the imco committee would also have liked to have found a simpler solution than the one now proposed. i would like to see the commission and the council agreeing on the need to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the common market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. they should take responsibility in this area. the second point concerns the very delicate debate between parliament and the council of ministers on the question of which areas can be exempted and how far we can extend the possibilities for exemptions in the area of the public interest. we in parliament have a somewhat stricter view than the council, because this is clearly a directive to improve the efficiency of review procedures in the field of public procurement, in cases where there has already been a conflict with the law in force. the question is not therefore to modify in any way the contractual directives in force in the member states, but to determine what sanctions may be imposed in this area. we should not confuse the discussions here. it is true that this has not been done in the plenary today, but it has sometimes been done in the public debate. we should make it clear once again that we are talking about defining sanctions when contracts have been awarded illegally. i think we're justified in being strict.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i too would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur very warmly for his work. i join in the good wishes for his future work in the national assembly. you had to work on this report in the middle of the election campaign, which was not easy. thank you very much. i very much welcome the fact that parliament and the council were able to agree on the crucial points in the trilogue. it is important that the same binding framework conditions apply in this field in the member states of the european union. i would like to highlight a few points which i believe are of particular importance. the first point - which has already been raised here - concerns the duration of the standstill period before the award of a contract. i welcome the agreement. but i also think that the duration of ten days with an additional five days for postal delivery is relatively short. i would also have welcomed the fact that the companies were given more time to review the award of contracts. for companies without a legal department - and these are usually small and medium-sized enterprises - reviewing the award decision is always difficult and time-consuming. mrs gebhardt is in full agreement with this: this is the council's responsibility and not parliament's. secondly, i very much welcome the fact that we have agreed to introduce the legal consequence of nullity in the case of illegal direct sales. it is important in this context that the general interest exemptions are allowed only for narrowly defined reasons. in particular, the general interest exception may, as a rule, only be applied if the reasons for it are not based on economic interest. if a member state nevertheless invokes economic grounds for an exemption, this constitutes an obligation to report to the commission. some member states fear that this will lay the foundation for future infringement proceedings. the opposite is true. as the council itself has repeatedly emphasised, these are the rare exceptional cases in which economic considerations beyond the contract itself are of such importance that they may justify an exception to the nullity of a legal consequence. it's only in these rare cases that there's this reporting obligation. it is reasonable for the member states to comply with it in order to enable the commission to monitor the uniform application of the provisions of this directive throughout the european union. it is also in the interests of better legislation that we have uniform implementation and that the commission has an overview of that actually happening. this is a principle of fairness and is essential for the better functioning of the internal market. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr fruteau, mrs rühle, mr schwab and mr zillmann once again. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the assistants of the political groups and the members who have also played a very decisive role in producing a good text. i would also like to see such debates in the future held in brussels rather than in strasbourg.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i also thank the rapporteur. it is ultimately thanks to him that we can adopt today, at first reading, a directive aimed at improving legal certainty in the field of public procurement. this will benefit both the municipalities and the private contractors. we expect this to benefit small businesses in particular, who cannot afford large legal departments. we particularly welcome the fact that the rapporteur has insisted from the outset on limiting the directive to the eu directives and not extending its scope. in order to allow all candidates the opportunity to review contracts, a uniform standstill period of at least 10 days has been introduced. i would have preferred a longer deadline, of course, but it was important to me that we reach a compromise at the first reading to provide greater legal certainty. the member states may, however, extend this period in their own territory if they so wish. contracts concluded illegally within the standstill period shall be considered as void unless there are overriding reasons of non-economic general interest to the contrary. the ineffectiveness of the measure is the responsibility of an independent review body. we have also been concerned about this and have given our full support to the rapporteur. the information obligation of contracting authorities has been precisely defined in order to increase the transparency of public procurement and to counter the risk of illegal practices and corrupt influence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular. we owe it to her that parliament is able to adopt an excellent own-initiative report today. i hope and expect that the commission will take up the recommendations and conclusions of this report in its review of european consumer law. our group supports your report, mrs roithová, and most of your compromise amendments. however, we regret that you have watered down your proposal on the subject of the european trust mark. we shall therefore not be voting for amendment no 4 and we shall also reject the liberal amendments. the protection of intellectual property must not lead to the erosion of consumer rights. consumers need clear information on their legal situation in relation to digital content and the management of digital rights. you have a right to interoperable solutions. the report addresses important issues such as the call for a european charter of user rights, the establishment of a european early warning system and a database to combat fraud on the internet. the introduction of an obligation to carry out external audits for some specific electronic services, such as internet banking, the standardisation of european rules for crossborder invoices sent electronically. finally, it calls for a coordinated overall approach to the digital environment, including the analysis of non-market factors such as privacy protection, citizens' access to information technologies and internet security. the report also calls on the commission to speed up the examination of measures relating to collective actions in crossborder disputes between traders and consumers in the digital environment. we shall support it and hope that it will be adopted by the plenary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs roithová, thank you very much for your excellent report and also thank you very much to the shadow rapporteur, mrs herczog, who has been working on this matter for my group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have taken very positively the fact that commissioner kuneva has to act in this area. this is absolutely necessary and we can only support them in this. you will have our full support. the citizens have a lot of problems in the digital sphere. they don't get their goods or they don't get them on time. they want to order something from another country, but they can't because they're, as the companies say, based in the wrong country. or they order something and suddenly they have a subscription on their forehead. these are the problems facing the citizens. of course, there are already very positive regulations in this area in the european union, but they are very disparate. it is extremely important that we produce positive legislation which also meets the expectations of citizens and, above all, consumers in this area. we want the citizens of this area to benefit from the single market. but they can only benefit from it if you also offer them legal certainty, if they know on what basis they are doing business, if they know that if they have a problem with an entrepreneur, they will also get justice and not have to wait 12 or 15 years for their right. they will also benefit from this opening up by having better price comparisons and better information. you see, we have a lot of work to do in this area. the citizens expect us to do more than regulate the internal market, to make the rules more favourable to entrepreneurs and to simplify them, and to ensure that businesses can move freely within the european union. the citizens expect a europe that is also there for them and in which policies are made, where it is not said that politics is made for the economy and citizens should be there for the economy. on the contrary, the measure of policy must be consumer protection in the digital environment, too, and in particular! the policy must be that we make a policy for the consumer, that the economy is for the consumer. if this happens, mrs kuneva - and i know you want to do the same - then we will achieve exactly what we want, namely a europe for citizens, a europe in which they can shop online in another country without any problems or obstacles, because they know they have rights and can fully invoke them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would first like to say to my spanish colleague that i do not need mr moratinos' visit to get excited about what the spanish government is doing. we have enough colleagues from central and eastern europe in the epp who are doing this out of solidarity with the people of cuba, and this is not a spanish matter within the epp. i want to make that very clear. the future option for the people of cuba must not be reduced to the alternative of either communist 'going on like this' or taking over the government from miami. the 1996 common position gives us the political responsibility to support the democratic and peaceful forces in their quest for change. that is why we, as members of parliament, have awarded the sakharov prize to the ladies in white and oswaldo payá. i would have liked to have had the council decision to clarify that the 1996 common position is still valid and that this council decision, which was adopted on monday, does not change it, that the 2003 measures are only suspended and that in any case we will have a new review next year in june (the 17th review of the common position). this should have been stated explicitly by the council.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. ethiopia has played a leading role in the dialogue between christianity and islam since the early middle ages. it is the oldest independent state in africa, has an ancient high culture, has fought against fascism and colonialism, and it is the country - mentioned earlier - where the organization of african unity is headquartered today. when you consider all of this, it is truly horrifying to see what communism has done to this country. when ethiopia held free elections two years ago, it was a moment of hope. but that hope was immediately stifled when the demonstrations were crushed in blood and waves of arrests followed. mrs gomes rightly pointed out that it was the leading and best minds of this country from all camps and all professional strata who were the victims of these first waves of arrests and who were also caught up in the latest wave of arrests this year with their convictions and trials. that's why we need to step up our game. i would appeal to the council and the commission to make available to us at last the investigative reports of the observers who took part in these sham trials, these show trials, these unfair trials. i call for an independent commission of inquiry, as this resolution does, because the ethiopian parliamentary commission of inquiry was imprisoned or exiled abroad precisely because it wanted to expose the truth about these events. we cannot accept that! that's why we need an independent investigation. and it is imperative that we use our strong position in this country to finally stand up for the rule of law and human rights there.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 21 june 2007.
it is a great pleasure for me to welcome the president of the european council, you, dear chancellor angela merkel, to this extraordinary plenary session of the european parliament today. (applause from the centre) we look forward to your report on the outcome of the european council of 21 and 22 june and on the activities and achievements of the german presidency. it is also a pleasure to welcome the president of the commission, josé manuel durão barroso. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. but before we get to the debate on the summit, it is a pleasant experience to sign an important new eu regulation together with the president of the european council. by signing the roaming regulation, we are also putting the finishing touches to successful cooperation in the interests of the citizens of the european union. (problems with sound technology) europe does not always succeed immediately. but if we are patient, we will succeed. we have to do something about technology. the commission president is right about his institute of technology. mr president of the commission, we must make progress! today is a good day for 140 million mobile phone users in the european union. the european parliament, the council and the commission have acted quickly, decisively and efficiently in the interests of citizens: after a record 11 months from the date on which the commission presented the draft regulation, the new roaming regulation will come into force at the end of this week, on 30 june. i would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the commission, and in particular to commissioner viviane reding, for her initiative, her courageous proposal and her active role in the negotiations. (applause from the centre) i would also like to thank the german presidency of the council, which recognized the importance of this decision for the citizens and therefore worked with great commitment and with a proven negotiating skill to secure a rapid solution at council level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has been able to manage this difficult dossier with confidence and determination through the committee and to achieve an excellent and convincing result for consumers. as early as this summer, mobile phone customers will be able to benefit from sustainably reduced roaming charges. more price transparency and quick and personal cost information immediately after crossing the border lead to more customer friendliness and lower prices. today the european union is removing a major obstacle to the further development of the free movement of persons within the european union. this is a good example of a europe of results, of a union whose actions bring tangible added value to its citizens. madam president, the procedure is that you will kindly make a few comments on the roaming regulation before your big report.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. not every regulation can be explained easily, this one certainly can. in future, those who have it will be able to make calls from one european country to another more easily and, above all, cheaper. i am quite sure that the citizens of europe will appreciate this very much and that is why we should sign the regulation quickly, mr president! (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into detail. we now come to the outcome of the european council of 21 and 22 june. you, madam president of the european council, dear chancellor angela merkel, are addressing the members of the european parliament for the fourth time today. this sets the standard for any subsequent presidency. i do not wish to prejudge the comments made by the chairmen of the political groups and other members. but i would like to say that we thank you for your good will, your patience and above all for your european determination, without which the outcome of the brussels summit would not have been possible. i would like to thank the chancellor, angela merkel, for her contribution to the debate. (applause from the centre)
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european council in rome in march was a great success, and i am glad that the european council in rome has been a great success. we have to remember that the european union is a political entity, a political entity, and that it is not a political entity. and if there will be more one day ... (problems with sound technology)
i am not going to go into detail. i'll try it again. is the translation all right now? madam president, let us try again. you have to be patient in europe. i beg your indulgence.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european council in rome in march was a great success, and i am glad that the european council in rome has been a great success. we have to remember that the european union is a political entity, a political entity, and that it is not a political entity. and whether it will ever be more than that, we do not know. we made it clear at the march event that none of this, peace and freedom, democracy and the rule of law, none of this is taken for granted. everything must be strengthened and defended anew, stagnation means backsliding. it takes decades to build trust, and it takes overnight to break it. yeah, we can do it overnight. in the event of a split, europe will be out of the game faster than some might think. in short, european unity must be constantly reworked and safeguarded. i am therefore very grateful that we have succeeded in doing just that with the outcome of the last eu council. we have set the stage for a renewed common foundation of the european union, we have overcome the stalemate, we have not let down trust in the end, we have avoided a split. in short, the outcome of saturday night will give europe a new common strength. i do not want to look back today on the exhausting negotiations of the past months and weeks, because we all know all too well that the starting point was difficult. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. let us not be fooled: there was always a danger, namely, that the paralysis and the tendencies to division would continue. of course, if the eu council had not achieved a result, europe would not have been destroyed, but the consequences would undoubtedly have been difficult to describe. the fact that this was avoided is therefore of the utmost importance. the unification of brussels makes it possible to preserve the substance of the constitutional treaty. i think we are all agreed in the end that the outcome of the european council is a success. it is a success for europe. it is also a success of the european parliament. you have always defended the substance of the constitutional treaty, and now the reform treaty can enter into force in time for the 2009 european elections, and this is of the utmost importance for all those who will be standing before the citizens. (applause from the centre) the reform treaty takes account of the citizens' concerns about a supposed european superstate, about the over-abandoning of the identity of the nation states. i do not share these concerns, but i had to respect them and i respected them. that is why we have decided to abolish the use of state symbols and names in the reform treaty. at the same time, the reform treaty is making important progress in the european union's action. we have even developed some areas beyond the eu treaty. climate protection and energy solidarity have been included, national parliaments are being involved even more in shaping national european policies, the competences between the eu and the member states are being defined even more clearly, and the conditions for enhanced cooperation, especially in the field of internal and judicial policy, have been facilitated. ladies and gentlemen, the reform treaty will bring to life three essential elements for the future of the european union. first, the eu's ability to act, both internally and externally. the union's single legal personality and the extension of the decision-making process in the council by qualified majority contribute to this. the new double majority system, which gives greater weight to the demographic factor, will only come into effect in 2014, at the same time as the first reduced commission and with a transitional period until 2017, but it is becoming a reality. this is not a sufficiently high estimate of the progress of europe. the new treaty will also bring greater continuity to the work of the council through a president of the european council and the team presidencies. the reform treaty also brings progress in policies, for example in the field of the european union's external action. a coherent foreign policy, speaking with one voice, is becoming more important every day for a europe that wants to assert itself in the world. we will have the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, he will head the foreign affairs council, he will have a european diplomatic service and he will be a member of the commission, namely as vice-president of the commission. this is a political quantum leap for europe. (applause from the centre) the european union is also making important progress in the area of justice and home affairs, which is of great interest to the people, for example in the joint fight against crossborder crime. the new qualified majority voting system will considerably speed up the procedures. we will also be able to make it clearer that transfers of competences are not one-way streets through which new competences are always being added to the european union, but that there can also be situations in which competences are transferred back to the national states when this is necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, secondly, with the reform treaty we make it clear: closer ties with the people for europe! the european parliament has been asked to vote on the draft budget for the european union. progress in the social dimension will be made effective and there will be clearer regulations in the area of social security. in addition, the igc will adopt a protocol in which services of general economic interest are recognised and it is made clear that member states have a high degree of freedom of design in the non-commercial sector. i am very glad - and i think that is what unites us in the vast majority here - that we have succeeded in finding a solution for the charter of fundamental rights as well. the charter of fundamental rights strengthens the rights of citizens vis-à-vis the institutions, the charter of fundamental rights is given legal binding force, which i believe is a good thing for a europe that is conscious of its values. (applause from the centre) we know that britain has chosen its own path because of its own legal tradition. we have to respect that. but the alternative would have been to restrict the legal binding of all, which would not have been acceptable to the majority of member states. it is therefore good that this has been avoided, and i believe that this is also the majority view of parliament. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, finally, the third element which makes the progress of the new reform treaty visible: more rights for parliaments! the treaty reform will make the european parliament the co-legislator with equal rights, and the european parliament will in future elect the president of the european commission. at the same time, it was important for many member states to give greater recognition to the role of national parliaments. this will be done in a new article. we have also agreed to strengthen the parliaments' control of subsidiarity, but we have respected the right of proposal of the european commission and there will be no veto of individual national parliaments in the future. i think it's right. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, treaty reform was one of the objectives of the german presidency of the council of the eu. the other objective of the presidency of the european council was to reorient the content of the european union towards the things we can only achieve together in the european union. because i am deeply convinced that only by acting together and in a targeted way can we achieve tangible progress for our citizens. of course, we have seen it again in the decisions of the eu council, there will always be exceptions, there will always be cases where individual member states decide not to participate in certain policies, or not to participate at first, while others do so within the framework of the treaties. this is not the case with the so-called two-speed europe. let me be perfectly frank: i don't think that's the case. (applause from the centre) this must not be the aim of our policy, otherwise we will open new holes in europe and weaken the european parliament. it is worth every effort to seek again and again the common path of all the member states of the european union. an african proverb says: "if you want to go fast, go alone; if you want to go far, go together". i believe that this african proverb contains the wisdom of the idea of european unity. only by acting together and in a targeted manner can we preserve the great and unique thing that has been the idea of european unity for over fifty years: peace, freedom and legal certainty for the citizens of europe. only by acting together and in a targeted manner can we strengthen citizens' rights in the european union, for example by incorporating the prüm treaty into the eu legal framework. this will allow for enhanced police cooperation in the crossborder fight against terrorism, crime and illegal migration in the eu. only by acting together and in a targeted way can we increase the competitiveness of the european location. that is what the roaming regulation, which we have signed here, for example, stands for. only by acting together and with purpose can we tackle one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, the threat of climate change. the decisions taken by the spring european council on an integrated energy and climate policy are groundbreaking. it was also the prerequisite for the g8 meeting to reach agreement on the need for a follow-up agreement under the kyoto protocol under the auspices of the united nations, and all the g8 participants have made themselves known to this. this would not have been possible without the spring european council and the support of the european parliament. this is a defence of european interests! (applause from the centre) it is therefore right that we should now include climate protection among the objectives of the european union in the new draft treaty. only if we act together and in a targeted way can we europeans hope to make our concerns known to the world. this was also demonstrated by the summits we held during our presidency with our non-eu g8 partners: the usa, russia, japan and canada. in addition to the climate protection decisions, other long-term agreements were signed: on enhanced regulatory cooperation with the usa and canada, on the establishment of an energy early warning system and an investment dialogue with russia, on better enforcement of intellectual property protection with japan. ladies and gentlemen, but all the institutional progress and the reorientation of the european union are ultimately possible only if we europeans are aware of our values, and indeed if we make these values the guiding principle of our actions. i think that this guideline can also help to convince the citizens of europe, by making us aware of our commonalities, by making it clear that we act together in the world on the basis of our values. europe is not arbitrariness, europe is a commitment to help make our planet habitable, to ensure that fewer and fewer people are forced to leave their homes because of violence or war, and to ensure that diseases such as aids, malaria and tuberculosis can be successfully combated. the german presidency of the council of the european union has thus come full circle. the reform treaty is now necessary for europe to stay on course. the european council hopes that the intergovernmental conference can be convened as soon as july, and that is why i would like to ask you today to deliver your opinion as soon as possible. they want us to be able to say to the people in the 2009 european elections campaign: 'this is how europe will continue, no other way!' and that is why it is good that the european parliament is constantly engaged in promoting these issues, seeking dialogue with civil society and will demonstrate this in an agora event in the autumn. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. from plato to pop. i have already quoted him, as you may recall, in my speech here at the beginning of my presidency of the council in january. he writes: 'everything we europeans have ever achieved is due to our internal contradictions, to the eternal division within ourselves, to the constant back and forth of opinion and opposition, of idea and counter-idea, of thesis and antithesis.' i would like to add my own words: we owe it to the ability to endure this internal contradiction and to succeed in something so great as the european peace project after countless wars and endless suffering. we europeans are truly united in our happiness! and so i wish that in 50 years, in 2057, the citizens of europe will say: in 2007, after exhausting and nerve-wracking discussions, the united europe finally set the course. in 2007, the european union was on the right track to a bright future. this was, is and will remain our mission, our mission for the future. germany will continue to work for this with all its might after the presidency. thank you. (the sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european parliament's reaction expresses more than any words the great approval of your actions. we would also like to thank your staff for their support. i would also like to thank president barroso and ask him to speak to us.
president of the commission. let me express my appreciation for the achievements of chancellor angela merkel. a very difficult task has turned into a success for europe. in particular, i would like to acknowledge the political ambition that led the chancellor to insist on a reform treaty that would give the union the right instruments to face the challenges of the 21st century. chancellor merkel and the entire team of the german presidency deserve the highest appreciation for their tenacious struggle to achieve the objectives and for their ability to sustain the negotiations to a successful conclusion. this compliment is not just to the outcome of the june council, but to the total number of successes achieved by the german presidency during the whole semester! (applause from the centre) we can honestly say that europe is fully on track. i believe it's useful to remember where we were some time ago. let me step back from the events of last week and look back over the last two years. just over a year ago the commission adopted an approach which i called 'the twin-track approach'. the first track was for the european union to use the existing treaties more effectively to deliver results for europe's citizens. we have done this, for example, through our package of measures on energy and climate change; through our focus on innovation; through our drive against red tape; through legislation which delivers practical benefits for consumers, such as the legislation we proposed on roaming, which was signed before us here today. i want to thank this house for its support for those initiatives. the second track was to return to the process of treaty reform. that is why we suggested the idea of the berlin declaration. that was a great moment to reaffirm our interests and our values in the 21st century. i believe that the discussion on the berlin declaration was an important moment to gather the necessary support which made it possible to achieve good results at the recent european council. we are therefore honoured to say that the path we have been suggesting over the different presidencies of the council has been followed. how was that possible? because the twin-track approach was the right approach. we cannot give our citizens the impression that we are just talking about institutions: we have to concentrate on practical results for our citizens, and governments and citizens will have the confidence to tackle sometimes very difficult institutional issues if they have the confidence that the institutions can deliver when it comes to the concerns of european citizens - growth and employment, and europe's new agenda: energy, climate change and security. the recent eurobarometer is encouraging: support for european union membership and the perceived benefits of membership have improved considerably over the last two to three years. in fact they are the best results in terms of support for the european union since 1994. that is why we have done - and we should do - everything we can to not miss the opportunity to reinforce the commitment to this great european project now that we are 27 states and almost 500 million citizens. let me be very frank about the results of the council. i think that when we consider the challenges ahead we can really say that the results are excellent. today in this house it is time to stress this point. let us not forget that before this council we started from a division between 18 member states which had rectified the constitutional treaty and 9 member states which had not ratified it, and 2 of them explicitly refused the constitutional treaty after a referendum. now all 27 member states are united around a common mandate for a reform treaty. the fact that we managed to reach an agreement is already an outstanding political result and we should be grateful for the willingness of all governments to compromise. now we should look forward to the ratification process as a great moment of solidarity and unity in europe and as a historic opportunity to consolidate the enlarged european union. at the same time, the advances from the nice treaty will guarantee a union with a greater capacity to act to deliver results. the reform treaty will probably not be an example of the finest poetry, but i have no doubt that it will be a very good example of excellent prose if it is focused precisely on the capacity of the european institutions to act. i said before the european council that we really needed to reinforce the european union's capacity to act. i believe the reform treaty will bring important advances to the union and will reinforce its ability to act. first of all, the union will be fully consolidated by overcoming the pillar structure and by acquiring a single personality. in this area of capacity to act, i would like to stress in particular three specific points. first, the most substantial advances are in the area of justice and home affairs. there are more than 40 new cases of qualified majority voting in the reform treaty. they include external border control, asylum, migration, criminal law and police cooperation. the treaty therefore intends to fully integrate these areas into the community's method of decision-making. it is in fact the 'communitarianisation' of the third pillar. this is a fundamental reform which will create a true space of freedom, security and justice in europe and it will be a priority for the rest of the mandate of this commission. the union needs the efficiency which more qualified majority voting brings. second, the reform treaty will offer new possibilities and reinforce legal bases to deal with the challenges of energy policy and climate change. in particular, the commission is very pleased with the solidarity clause on energy security and agreement to add combating climate change to the treaty. energy security and climate change are now core priorities for the union. it is right that this is reflected in the treaties. third, the reform treaty will enhance the union's cohesion as regards external affairs. in the 21st century world, it is only by combining the forces of our member states and our institutions that we can compete with other leading powers. our prosperity, our freedom and our security depend on the capacity to compete at a global level, the capacity to promote our interests and our values. europe will increasingly speak with one voice in diplomatic, security and defence issues in trade, in monetary aid, in development, and as such will be better equipped to defend our values and interests in world politics. we want the conditions and the instruments to shape globalisation and we cannot miss such a historic opportunity. but the reform treaty also addressed other issues, namely in terms of accountability and democratic legitimacy. with the reform treaty, the union wants to reinforce its accountability and democratic legitimacy. again let me emphasize three cases of clear improvement compared to the nice treaty. first, the european parliament wants to have greater participation in the legislative process of the union by an increase in codecision procedures. under the new treaty, the vast majority of european laws will be adopted jointly by the european parliament and the council, with full respect for the commission's right of initiative. secondly, national parliaments want to be more involved in the workings of the union. this is about subsidiarity and we are for subsidiarity. the new treaty will amend the protocol on subsidiarity and proportionality. this commission has always welcomed a greater role for national parliaments. however, the commission also made clear that involving national parliaments in scrutinising subsidiarity should not undermine the essentials of how the european union works. first, any new procedure on subsidiarity would have to respect the community method and the commission's right of initiative. secondly, the european parliament and the council should be on an equal footing. finally, the thresholds regarding majorities should rise to reflect the importance of the procedure. we managed to secure all our demands and as such to preserve the institutional balance of the union, while reinforcing the control of subsidiarity. thirdly, and in my view this is one of the most important points, the reform treaty will give legal force to the charter of fundamental rights. the fact that the charter is legally binding is a powerful symbol of the strong ties that exist between the union and european citizens. it is also a very good signal and symbol that we are committed to fundamental rights. we cannot promote fundamental rights all over the world and not say that we consider them binding at home. (applause) i would like to thank the charter is not, and was never intended to be, a charter of the rights of european institutions above the member states. the charter is for european citizens and the rights of the citizens against any power that could limit those rights. the charter will be a safeguard, both for european citizens and for national institutions, and will be a central part of the system of checks and balances in our union of law, because that is what makes us different from many other projects: we are a union based on law. i have always said that a step back from the existing acquis would be unacceptable. this is particularly important in respect of the single market. the results of the european council were entirely positive from the commission's point of view, specifically from the point of view of the commission's competence. the protocols on services of general interest and on the internal market and competition, both proposed by the commission, guarantee a fair and undistorted functioning of the single market, while respecting legitimate concerns expressed by some member states. before concluding, i should like to warn against the temptation of a perverse alliance between those who resist a political europe and those who oppose the single market. to those who support an open and global europe, i say that they will only get this if they support political integration. without political power, europe will never be able to shape globalisation and to defend its interests and values in the world. europe will never be able to defend its commitment to an open economy and to open societies. (applause) to those who accept a strong political europe, but are not as enthusiastic about economic integration, i say that they will only get that strong political europe if they support the single market and economic integration. (applause) we cannot defend the european project by attacking the single market and trying to fragment what has been one of the greatest achievements of our integration in europe. after the success of the european council, there are now two crucial stages ahead. first we must finalize the igc and sign the reform treaty. the igc will begin next month and the portuguese presidency aims to conclude it in october. i fully support this. member states must then ratify the treaty, and in the meantime, we must explain to the european public why this treaty will be a necessary and positive step forward. such a narrative will be a central part of the commission's opinion ahead of the igc. i also know that this house is already working hard on its opinion. i certainly hope that the european parliament and the commission can continue to work closely together in spreading the message that this reform is indispensable to meet the challenges of the 21st century and deliver better results to european citizens. i believe that european citizens are the real beneficiaries of the reform treaty. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, mr barroso, for your speech and your great commitment.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the council has already taken a decision on the matter. the german presidency of the council was a success, the german presidency of the council has set standards. the president said that at the beginning of the debate and, madam chancellor, the presence of the german government and the competence of its members, especially the social democratic members of your government, have left a lasting impression! the summit this weekend achieved less than we needed to, but it achieved a lot. it was not a small step forward that was made over the weekend, it was a big step forward. we've made a lot of big steps forward. many of the things you have said and the president of the commission has described were demands from the european parliament! i want to go into why it is a good sign that you have remained tough in these negotiations. a lot of things have happened behind closed doors, but we're here in public. i would therefore like to say that i have heard you say last night that if there is no unanimity, we will convene the intergovernmental conference by qualified majority, and then we will vote by a show of hands. when this spirit of secession, which some want to bring to this europe, was waving through the room, you had the courage to stand up and say: 'let us see who wants to and who does not want to.' then some of them bowed, and then it was unanimous. that is the great success of your negotiations last weekend! (applause from the centre) i would like to say to those who want to bring this unlimited self-interest, this constant appeal to national self-interest into the union, a word from your predecessor, konrad adenauer: i must not slaughter the cow i want to milk, he said in his own simplified language. but he was right, and the same is true of the european union today! (applause from the centre) we've made a lot of progress. there is transparency in europe. it is in the commission, it is in parliament, but it is not in the european council. the european union is facing a crisis of its own, and it is not the european institutions that are in crisis, but the governments of the member states of the european union. (applause from the centre) i am not talking about all governments, madam chancellor, but about some governments. i would like to thank the heads of government who fought. i am thinking of romano prodi, guy verhofstadt, jean-claude juncker and you, who have said that we want european unity because there is no alternative. there were other governments that didn't go along, that wanted something different. the polish government, not the polish people, which is in contrast to its government, for europe, is to say: in polish history, there was the liberum veto. the polish nobility parliament could only decide if there was a unanimous decision of all. the liberum veto was a failure on the part of the kingdom of poland. we will not allow this liberum veto to be transferred to the european union, because we do not want to fail in this, and we will not allow the european union to be led down a path which it cannot be led down. europe and the european union are one idea. it is the idea of overcoming the monsters and the enemy images of the past through european integration. we cannot allow those who want to revive these images of the past to destroy the idea of europe. that is precisely what you prevented this weekend, and for that we thank you! (loud and persistent applause) a word on a disturbing moment in these negotiations: madam chancellor, our generation, no matter from which part of germany we come, has an obligation which we and every democratic politician in our country are trying to live up to, namely that we draw the right consequences from the mistakes of our country and from the crimes committed in the name of our people. the correct consequence for us germans was to integrate the reunified germany into the european union, to make it part of an integrated community of nations, so as never to repeat this error of the past. we must do this, whether we are socialists or christian democrats, whether we are liberals or greens, together. this is our common obligation, our common task, which we germans - i say this as a member of this international parliament - are in my opinion doing justice to. we have therefore the right to say: whoever counts the deaths of the second world war against the weighting of votes in the council of ministers is wrong in european politics, and we must say no to him! (loud and persistent applause) madam president, you said that the european parliament was the big winner of this round. we are the big winner because we will act. the council will continue to block itself with this strange voting behaviour and mode. i'm very happy for you. we will be the decisive force in the european union, with our parallel majority in the first and second readings, as we were in the case of roaming, reach and the services directive. they signed it here today against the background of the european flag. in 2057, people will remember the pro-europeans, not the people who tried to stop this idea, which cannot be stopped. i would like to thank the german presidency for its visit and for the good cooperation, and i would also like to thank mr schönfelder, who is sitting next to you and who has represented the federal republic of germany so well over the years. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, martin schulz! if the president of parliament had a positive opinion, he would have said so now.
the debate is closed.
the french authorities have informed us that mrs marie-line reynaud, mr pierre moscovici and mr jean-claude fruteau have been elected to the french national assembly. according to article 7 (2) of the act of 20 september 1976, as amended on 25 june and 23 september 2002, there has been an incompatibility of mandates for these members since 26 june 2007, the date of the constituent meeting of the french national assembly. since the election of mrs reynaud and mr moscovici has been contested and since the election of mr fruteau can be contested until 28 june, and since the constitutional council of the french republic must decide on this as soon as possible, i propose that the declaration of the vacant seats be postponed until the completion of the proceedings before the constitutional council. in view of the incompatibility of the mandates since 26 june 2007, ms reynaud, mr moscovici and mr fruteau are currently unable to participate in the work of the european parliament and its institutions. i also note that the post of vice-president, which mr pierre moscovici holds, is now vacant with his consent. in view of the extraordinary circumstances, i propose that the legal affairs committee should be consulted on this matter.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of the european council and the commission statement: european council meeting of 21 and 22 june 2007 and the council statement: half-year of the german presidency.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the strength of the european idea, the extent to which it unites across party lines and gives strength to say what is necessary, even in times of crisis, is becoming clear today. i would like to say that i am a christian democrat and i fully support the words of our social democrat colleague martin schulz. i want to support every sentence, and as a german i remember the closing speech of french president françois mitterrand in this parliament in 1995. he said nationalism leads to war. this is the strength of europe which we must preserve in the face of all crises and problems: a europe which stands for peace, prosperity and social security. i would like to thank the presidency of the council and you personally, mrs merkel. it was a thick board to drill, and they drilled it successfully. not all wishes have been granted. but the substance has been preserved in both climate and energy policy and in the question of the reform treaty. they have ensured that the powers of parliament have been extended, that the primacy of european law has not disappeared, that we have strengthened subsidiarity in many areas, that we have been able to do away with the delimitation of powers and much more. questions have also been raised about the competition principle. we need to look more closely at the implications of this. the european council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. it has been successful in the current programme with many initiatives being implemented and it has been exemplary in its cooperation with the european parliament. i would also like to thank you personally, mrs merkel, and all the members of the german government and the german delegation.
thank you very much, baron crespo.
the commission has already done so. i would like to congratulate you on your excellent work, madam chancellor. you have achieved a very good result, you have met expectations. for the german liberals this is not a big surprise, because we were already convinced before the elections to the bundestag that you would be a good leader - and that was only in the face of mr schulz, who today has spoken in this sense in an exuberant manner, but better late than never. the fdp in the european parliament had called on the then very hesitant german government to set ambitious goals for the constitutional treaty before the start of the german presidency of the council. we are therefore pleased that at the end of your presidency not only a timetable has been set, but also a definition of the content. however, the price paid is extremely high. there are renaming, longer deadlines, exceptions. this is a real disaster, especially in the case of the charter of fundamental rights. the so-called reform treaty is more complicated and less transparent. a minority has won the day at the expense of the majority and the idea of europe has suffered a severe blow. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information it has received from the member states. there's no guarantee that it will. first, the intergovernmental conference must be held and then the real work begins, namely, when the 27 countries begin to ratify. so it's all open. the balance sheet of the german presidency of the council thus reflects the current mood within the eu in a somewhat realistic way. it's not terrible, but it's not exciting. it is the distant europe of the summits, not the near europe of the citizens, that has prevailed. the council presidency has achieved a good milestone in the face of difficulties which would have made a result almost impossible. it was the only thing that could have been done. mrs merkel, you have outlined what memories of 2007 you hope the citizens of europe will have in 50 years' time. i would like to add a hope to this: i would be very happy if by 2057 - and perhaps i will be alive then - all europeans would see the beautiful phrase of the berlin declaration, 'we are united in our happiness' not as a decision taken in the back room, but as something they experience every day. that would be a huge success of your presidency. thank you very much again. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to emphasize once again for the greens in the european parliament what my group chairman has already said: we were very relieved when the summit result was announced and we shared your relief and your joy one hundred percent. we are not surprised by mr prodi's disappointment, because it has become clear during this summit that everything is at a standstill and that national egoism is the real threat to europe. i have noticed in the days afterwards - and actually during the summit itself - in the reporting and in the discussions on this difficult situation that in the face of this loss of further integration, which was also the theme of the summit, many people have a positive attitude towards europe. basically, it's a very simple thing: it's only when you've had something taken away that you really understand what you had. sometimes it's too late to see it, but this time it happened just in time. i am very grateful to you for your negotiating skills, because i believe that you have been very skilful in playing on simple relationships, namely how people work and function in this devastated europe. but i have a wish too. they have succeeded in bringing people closer to europe again. i would also like to see this transparency, this publicity of the summit, for the preparation of the intergovernmental conference. we should not allow this gap to re-emerge and lock people out again. i think that even in poland, where we have the support of 80% of the population, this would help us. i thank you and wish you continued success.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. like many on the left in europe, i cannot condone anything that promotes nationalism and makes it even more difficult to use the resources of the european union to solve social, environmental and global problems. i am therefore in favour of european integration, which aims at a federally composed eu and, of course, a constitution to match it, but with different principles, different priorities and different objectives. mrs merkel, i must also pay my respects to you! you have managed to give the impression to a wide public that the brussels compromise is your masterpiece. the compromise is, however, in many respects the continuation of the 'continued'. it does not bring about a substantial change in policy, but an apparently better design. the rejection of the draft constitutions in france and the netherlands at the time was not based on fear of a superstate, but on fear of an anti-social europe, and this concern must not have diminished with the compromise reached in brussels, with the half-measures, the problems postponed and also with the power poker for the weighting of the votes. that is why we also stand by this treaty in our call for referendums in the eu member states. there is no reason to be afraid of this at all, since the majority of european citizens are for europe, as the latest polls show. if this treaty is good, there is a good chance that it will be supported by the majority of the population.
thank you very much, józsef szájer! when we first met, you gave me a piece of barbed wire with the hungarian flag as a sign that the division of europe had been overcome. it was a very beautiful symbol at the time, and i've never forgotten it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to follow up on what was said earlier. maybe we should now show the flag more often and play the anthem more often to show that something like this cannot be lost because it is there. we fought to preserve the substance. that worked and i think that's a success. yet, more than the name and the symbols have been lost. it must be seen that the reform treaty is something different from the constitutional treaty, because the vision of a political union not only of a europe of states but also of a europe of citizens has now gone further afield, and it will be a long time before we can make a fresh start on a european constitution. the anti-europeans have won here and the european federalists have lost here. that has to be said very clearly. i also think that the simplified contract unfortunately remains a complicated contract. there's a loss of transparency. the citizens will not be able to identify with the new product as they did with the constitutional treaty. thirdly, i am concerned that distrust has grown among the members, but also among some members, of the eu and its institutions. everyone wants to be a member, but not everyone wants to join. we will be very careful to see that there are not only different speeds, but also different classes. some of them obviously want to be second-rate. if that's what they want, then that's what they should be. you can't block the others. this was an important step forward. but it is not the end of the reform process, and the new treaty will give this parliament the opportunity for the first time to propose further steps of reform itself. i have no doubt that in the next parliamentary term we will return to all that has been left behind and will continue to develop the european union from this house of european citizens.
the president of the council. mr president ! it is an interesting situation in the european parliament when all the heads are still there. i am grateful for the debate on this. i would like to make two brief points. firstly, the question of the internal market and competition, which has caused great concern here. there was a discussion in the council about whether competition is an objective of our efforts. i believe that competition is not an end in itself, but a means. that is why we have removed it from the heading on objectives, but have made it absolutely clear by the protocol which we are going to insert on the internal market and competition that this instrument will remain unchanged and in its full meaning, and the commission has also clearly taken this into account. so nothing changes. employment and prosperity are our goals, but our goal is not competition as such, but competition as a means. secondly, a lot has been said about the voting system. i want to repeat for the sake of clarity: all possible forms of weighting, including root systems, are conceivable if they are taken as the only form of coordination. if we started at zero, we could talk about anything. but there is a double majority, and this double majority brings the weighting between population and the principle of 'one country, one vote'. it is only in this duplication that the voting system is acceptable, and we have now also found a way which leads us back to real international world problems and at the same time has a high degree of justice. i would like to close by thanking you very much. i can report on behalf of our government that we had a cabinet meeting today in which we took stock of the situation and that all members of the government were proud to have led this presidency with enthusiasm and a lot of commitment, and that the social democrats as well as the christian democratic members of the government made their contribution to this. (applause from the centre) secondly, i would like to thank the commission, josé manuel barroso and all the commissioners. we have worked together intensively and well, we have had friendly, hard talks, which have sometimes lasted until late at night, but we have come together and i believe that the commission and the council will emerge stronger from this presidency. it was a pleasure to work with you, josé manuel, personally, and it was also a pleasure to work with the whole commission and all its staff. thank you very much. i would also like to thank the european parliament. it is a pleasure to debate in this parliament, to feel the spirit of europe and to tackle some difficult tasks with the tailwind - and with a touch of idealism, perhaps more common here than elsewhere. because one thing is clear: where there is no more idealism, there is only nationalism, there is only insistence on one's own possessions. this is not going to get us anywhere, and therefore i would like to thank the whole european parliament, and in particular those who have always given us the back wind! i'm going to miss working with you, but you can still come here as a visitor. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. mr president, madam chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, i have nothing to add to what mrs merkel has said on competition. i would just like to make it clear that the result of the discussions was not to retain a certain expression which was in the constitutional treaty, but in no way to alter the principles of competition which are part of the whole community acquis, namely the idea that competition is an essential instrument of the internal market and an essential instrument for the well-being of citizens. this point has been clarified and i think that from this point of view we can be quite satisfied with the results of this european council. i just wanted to make one more point very quickly. the results of this european council, which were indeed extremely positive, now give us greater responsibility. let's think for a moment where we would be today if we hadn't had this success. i did not tire of stressing before the european council the great responsibility we had in terms of credibility. how can we europeans tell the rest of the world that we are serious about fighting climate change and energy security and promoting job growth if we are not able to solve the institutional issue? that result has been achieved, but as has already been pointed out, we have a mandate, which is excellent, but we do not yet have the treaty. so it is now necessary for everyone to show the same responsibility so that, during the portuguese presidency, if possible during the extraordinary october council, we can reach a treaty to resolve the institutional issue so important for the union and be able to pursue our agenda in favour of citizens, promoting employment growth and investing more in innovation. i would remind you that innovation should be a priority, not just in discourse but in practice, as indeed are all the other objectives of the renewed lisbon strategy. there is therefore a huge potential for results for europe and its citizens. that is why we must equip the european union with the institutions that will give us the capacity to act. i am absolutely sure that we are in a better position today than we have been for some time to achieve these objectives. i would therefore like to congratulate the german presidency once again and all those who have contributed to this result. it is perhaps not too much to stress the excellent institutional cooperation between the european parliament, the council and the commission and also the fact that this is the first time that an agreement has been reached from beginning to end by twenty-seven member states, that is, the oldest members and the newest members. the negotiations were sometimes difficult, but the fact is that an agreement was reached, and this point must be underlined as very positive.
i thank you very much, mr president of the commission. experience has shown that all three institutions have always gone in the same direction for europe. tomorrow the group chairmen will be in lisbon to discuss the future presidency with the commission on the way forward. thank you all for participating. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – the german presidency was a disaster. the so-called reform treaty which is labelled a success is not preparing the ground for a social, democratic and peaceful eu. on the contrary, the eu is more divided now. worst in this respect were threats by german politicians like pse chairman martin schulz against poland and great britain. furthermore, the militarisation of the eu has been accelerated and there have been no commitments for another policy on climate change. any new eu treaty should be decided by referendum in all member states. it is impossible always to talk about getting citizens more involved in european affairs while at the same time not letting them have a say on the most important issues in the eu. my wish would be that the voices of the people who rejected the constitutional treaty because of its neo-liberal and militaristic character were finally heard. i see the contrary, however: we are facing an attempt to get the substance of the constitutional treaty adopted through the back door by renaming the project ‘reform treaty’ and excluding the possibility of referendums. if the eu is to be based on democratic principles this has to be prevented.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 5.25 p.m.)
i declare resumed the partsession adjourned on wednesday 27 june 2007.
i am not going to go into detail. the group chairmen have asked me to make a statement on terrorism. just over three years after the madrid bombings of 11 march 2004, which killed 192 people, and two years after the london bombings of 7 july 2005, which killed 56 people and injured more than 700, terror attacks again struck london and glasgow on 29 and 30 june. a few days later, on july 2, a suicide bombing in yemen claimed more victims: seven spanish tourists and two yemenis were killed, and eight others were injured. there are many indications that the terrorist network al qaeda is connected to these attacks. this is a threat to all of us. terrorism is a direct attack on freedom, human rights and democracy. terrorism is an attempt to destroy, by blind violence, our values, the values which unite us in the european union and in our member states. terrorism - wherever it is committed and by whomever - is a crime that we must confront with determined action and solidarity. the european union is called upon to join the international community in combating terrorism in all its forms. today, the european parliament is discussing the report by our colleague jeanine hennis-plasschaert on the draft directive presented by the commission in 2006 to oblige member states to identify and protect critical infrastructure in areas such as energy, health, communications and transport from terrorist attacks. the aim is to provide a durable security framework in the event of a terrorist attack. this proposed pan-european strategy is a concrete contribution to the fight against terrorism. we must take all the necessary measures to counter terrorism. we are guided by our principles of the rule of law. the fight against terrorism must be conducted in accordance with the values we defend. the european parliament expresses its solidarity and support for the victims of terrorism and their families, those who have lost their lives and those who are still suffering from the psychological and physical consequences. in conclusion, let me quote the words of the new prime minister of the united kingdom, gordon brown: 'we will not yield, we will not be intimidated'. in memory of the victims, i ask you to observe a silent commemoration. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 5 july 2007, in accordance with rules 130 and 131, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday and tuesday:no changewednesday:the socialist group, the liberal group and the group of the european united left request that the report by mr markov on road safety management be referred back to the committee responsible under rule 168.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i ask for your indulgence, because i do not know which rule i am referring to. but in your infinite wisdom, they'll find the article. we have a series of debates here in the house on the calendar of parliament's sittings. there is a huge need for a vote among the political groups. the deadline for tabling amendments is tomorrow at 10 a.m. i ask on behalf of our group, but also with the agreement of other group chairmen and colleagues, to extend this deadline to 6 p.m. tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up.
thank you very much. the nods of many group chairmen and representatives show that this motion is supported. i can therefore assume that there are no objections to this, so that the deadline for submission is set for tomorrow, 6 p.m.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions, pursuant to rule 144 of the rules of procedure.
thank you, thank you. pacta sunt servanda does not need to be translated, because everyone understands it.
i would remind you that these one-minute statements take one minute.
you addressed me as president. i don't think there's any basis for your claims. it was a political dispute, and there are reasons for it, and the chairman of the political group has spoken about that. i therefore see no reason for me to act in the way you are asking me to.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in its new progress report, the commission has given bulgaria and romania a 'deficient' score in the fight against corruption. at the same time, it decided against the application of the safeguard clauses. in addition, the commissioners have considerably watered down the initially scathing reports on judicial and law enforcement deficiencies, and deleted passages that criticised clear shortcomings compared to eu standards. the results of the fight against crime are very poor. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and has recently adopted a number of measures to combat fraud. to date, no charges or convictions have been filed. the velvet glove principle is not only detrimental to parliament, which had made the protective clauses a condition of accession for both countries, but also to the integrity of the european union as a whole and should not be tolerated!
- i'm not going to. if i may say so, you have just contributed to the europeanisation of the solution of this problem. thank you very much.
the parliament's services will look into the content of your statement and then i am sure they will give me some advice.
thank you, mrs wallis. as it is your constituency, we must show our solidarity.
mr cappato, i have to ask you a question. i can tell you that we will only adopt the declaration if the president of the european council's speech to parliament on wednesday also gives assurances that parliament will be involved at all levels of the discussions. that's our condition. you'll be speaking to the constitutional committee tonight.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in your opening remarks, commissioner, you outlined the benefits of this new system: better legal certainty, better information for consumers and, very importantly, less red tape. i can only support you! keep it up. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we have then an important and correct basis for european legislation. since regulations are of course the same in all member states, the conditions of the internal market require a certain degree of flexibility and the statements must be relevant. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i am in favour of the codecision procedure, but i am in favour of the extended comitology procedure. i'm sure you'll find it very satisfying. the effect of products and food additives on health or, as rapporteur westlund says, on nature should not be part of these regulations. we should concentrate on what we want to achieve. otherwise we will have a broad carpet of regulations and we will not reach our goal. there are many other regulations for that. i also think it is a bit far-fetched to suggest that food additives should only be used if the effect cannot be achieved with spices. there is no scientific basis for this. that is not acceptable. i am actually very satisfied with the admission procedures. but, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, give your colleagues a little credit. why six months for the efsa and nine months for the commission? that, commissioner, is something you should change! follow the proposal to provide six months for both institutions. then we should be able to develop something positive.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the health programme and cardiovascular prevention are closely linked. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr trakatellis on his tireless efforts to promote this programme. prevention comes before treatment. prevention means longer life, better life, better quality of life, less care, less illness, less health costs. we would have liked to have had more than 20 cents a year and a population. but we're still modest, and we're doing a lot of things for a little money. we can only set priorities, however, and i must emphasize that this is prevention, it is education, not treatment, which is ultimately subsidiary and which must be provided by the national states. prevention means prevention and preventing diseases, especially in the field of cardiovascular diseases, where it concerns infarcts and strokes, in the field of tumor diseases and their causes, as in the case of lung cancer and smoking, in the field of unhealthy lifestyles, such as poor diet or doping in sports, in the field of accidents and their prevention, and in the field of research and statistics, where it is concerned with better detection and understanding of diseases in order to derive treatment guidelines. i would like to reply to the oral question by mr ouzký, to whom i would like to express my thanks. in the area of cardiovascular disease prevention, there is much that can be done by changing one's lifestyle: exercise, health, sports, a balanced diet and, finally, avoiding trans fats. we also need a strong slogan for cardiovascular prevention so that our citizens know what it is all about. so we could say, "save your heart, save your life", or, in english, "you can't live without a heart". prevention for 325 million euros in five years is not much. i visited a german heart clinic this morning. 200 million dollars were invested in just one year!
member of the commission. mr president, the commission has on many occasions declared – and, through its actions, proved – its commitment to ensuring that the legislative framework on genetically modified food and feed, which was approved by the european parliament and the council, is fully respected. we have the obligation – and i believe we are delivering on this obligation – to make sure that the legislation is properly and fully respected. under the legislation, gm food and feed can be legally put on the market only if it is safe and appropriately labelled. i would remind the house of how the legislation provides for the division of work between risk assessment and risk management. the commission has no discretion on the safety assessment of a gm product. the legislation clearly distinguishes between risk assessment, which is carried out by efsa, and risk management, which is carried out by the commission. this approach is defined not only by general food law but also by the regulation on gm food and feed. whenever new scientific questions emerge, the commission adheres to the separation of competences and asks efsa to evaluate the information and its impact on the risk assessment of a product. the commission’s role is to take relevant risk management decisions, provided that, and only when, such a risk is identified by efsa as the european union’s body responsible for risk assessment. in other words, we manage a risk once it has been identified and assessed by the body responsible. it was a very specific decision, when the legislation was adopted, to give the risk assessment to a separate independent body. however, if there is no risk identified by the authority, then there will be no sound scientific basis for the commission to take a risk management decision. on this specific issue, mon 863 had already been evaluated twice in 2004 before the authorisation was adopted. in both cases, efsa concluded that mon 863 maize would not have an adverse effect, and this opinion was reached with the involvement of the national authorities of the member states and was further reviewed and confirmed by the authority in 2006 following a specific request to the commission by the honourable member ms breyer. there were intensive repeated analyses, which were carried out as part of the authorisation procedure, and then there was the publication by professor séralini in march this year – that is the sequence of events. the work presented by professor séralini was not a new study but only a statistical review of the existing rat-feeding study, which supported the authorisation of this product in the european union. despite the fact that it was not a new study but only a statistical review, as soon as the commission became aware of professor séralini’s paper, it immediately asked efsa to analyse it to verify whether the newly proposed statistical interpretation was well founded and, more importantly, whether the statistical differences were relevant for food and feed safety. in order to take into account all new elements and thus to eliminate any possible sources of uncertainty, efsa conducted a new review asking member states to provide any relevant analysis or comments, set up a specific task force of internal and external statistical experts and held a meeting with the author of the statistical review. in the commission’s view, the procedures set up by efsa to evaluate the review of professor séralini’s report represent a sufficient guarantee of independence and expertise. efsa first responded to the commission request in march by discussing the issue at the plenary meeting of the gmo panel, before issuing a statistical report and a scientific statement by the panel on 20 june.in particular, the authority underlines that the statistical analysis made by the authors of the paper did not take into account certain important statistical considerations and that the assumptions underlying the statistical methodology employed by the authors led to misleading results. the conclusion of the authority is that the paper does not present a sound scientific justification to question the safety of mon 863 maize and, therefore, it sees no reason to revise its previous opinions that mon 863 maize would not have an adverse effect in the context of the proposed use. parliament will be informed in more detail of the background i have outlined in the replies to the written questions on this subject by ms breyer, which are currently being finalised following the recent efsa statement. against this background, two conclusions emerge. first, and most importantly, there is at this stage no scientific basis to question either the safety of mon 863 or its status as a legally commercialised product. second, the conclusions of the eu official body for risk assessment, made up of some of the best specialists in europe, have been drawn after consultation of the national competent authorities as well as external experts. by trusting the outcome of this work, which confirms the previous evaluations, the commission has, i believe, acted as a responsible risk manger, especially within the context of the legislation and the apportionment of responsibilities as i explained them during my introduction. the commission will continue to work along these lines on the basis of a precautious and science-based approach. the commission, i would emphasise, has full determination to make a case-by-case risk management decision taking into account any scientific questions emerging during the evaluation procedure or even after the authorisation. we will always be vigilant; we will always be ready to examine every new piece of scientific information that emerges. but, of course, our final decision will have to be based on the risk assessment, which will be done by the body in charge of this responsibility based on european legislation. we believe that our legislation and the commission’s approach offer the best way to provide our citizens with the high level of safety they expect and demand. i hope that i can count on the trust and support of the european parliament as we continue our rigorous and impartial approach.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not the commission's intention to make a distinction between the two. it is not the council of ministers that wanted an independent efsa, an authority whose statements could be relied upon, an authority which was not in danger of receiving studies of compliance. the european parliament had then asked efsa to carry out the risk assessment of gmos and the council of ministers had supported this in the co-decision procedure. in april 2004, efsa assessed mon 863 maize as being as safe as conventional maize. a second efsa safety assessment carried out in october 2004 came to the same conclusion. this, of course, undermines the worldview of the green soul, and because it is not allowed to be what green does not want, it is commissioned to conduct its own study. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified maize. a scoundrel who thinks evil! the efsa experts then requested a repeat of the rat test. and again, there was no sign of any acute toxicological effects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the so-called scientific results of the green study were therefore once again deliberate panic-mongering, deliberate uncertainty among the population, popular deception! it is the typical ideologically motivated policy of prevention with which they are so happy to campaign. they waste taxpayers' money by demanding repeated repetitions of the efsa risk assessments. but, for example, will they also question the nutritional profiles of the efsa on the health claims regulation? of course not, because they fit their ideology! but the council of ministers must also be questioned! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. it's the little man's fear of not being re-elected, no more and no less! we are thus offering the eu great opportunities: better food and feed through gmos with nutritional added value, efficient renewable raw materials, carbon neutral and therefore climate neutral. mon 863 is safe and must be approved as are all the other crops tested and found safe!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. commissioner kyprianou, i am very disappointed because i was expecting answers tonight - like mrs scheele - as to when higher standards for risk assessment will finally be introduced. for months i have been asking the commission specific questions about these security problems, which are not answered, only to be heard by officials in private: we are not in a position to give those answers. it is not only the independent study by french scientists which comes to the alarming conclusion that monsanto 863 is unsafe and poses an alarming health risk and that it is irresponsible to leave it on the market any longer. we also have a study from austria. we have alarming concerns from the member states. you can't just deny it and hide your head in the sand! i would have expected answers from you today on the fact that the european medicines agency also sees a risk associated with the two antibiotic resistance genes, not only in mon 863, but also in the amflora potato for which approval has now been requested. even the eu's own institution is in disagreement with efsa! we need answers from you, mr kyprianou! you can't just say you won't answer that! even the council has asked you to make a statement. i find it strange that it took efsa three months to evaluate the séralini study. mr séralini will be here in parliament on wednesday and will then tell us in concrete terms whether the warning, the adulation of the efsa, is really justified. we know that the studies of the efsa refer to monsanto. they have statistical errors. this has been pointed out not only by the french research group but also by many member states. we expect you to answer questions about how these errors will be corrected in the future, how we will deal with them, how the precautionary principle should be assessed in general. we need a re-evaluation! i would like to know from you, mr kyprianou, very clearly: will there be a reassessment of mon 863? the efsa just looked at the old data again. she didn't re-evaluate at all. this is a crucial question and we need an answer to it! (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. madam president, i think i should begin where vice-president vidal-quadras ended, by first of all thanking him for all his work and his dedication. i should also like to thank the committee on industry, research and energy for the active debate and those who made it possible for this report to be adopted within such a short time limit. this is really an achievement and one that is very much appreciated. the report, if adopted – and i hope it will be adopted tomorrow – will pave the way for a commission legislative proposal which we are aiming to have ready by september. it is really necessary to have the report and that we spend the remaining months of july and august preparing a good legislative proposal that will really reflect on all the points raised by the parliament. i would like to begin by saying why we need this proposal. i think it is very important never to lose sight of the reason why the commission really believes in this proposal. from a formal point of view, there is the argument that two reports by the commission and the final report on the sector inquiry on energy clearly indicated that there is a need for new legal measures at european level to achieve the basic goals of security of supply and competitiveness. however, these are not the only reasons. there has been a substantial change in the energy world which justifies this proposal. firstly, we have historically high energy prices. the price of oil today at usd 70 per barrel is definitely very high. we are hearing less from those who usually argue that oil prices will come down. if oil prices are high, it means that gas prices are also high and it has an influence on the price of coal – basically, all energy costs are higher. we can predict that high prices will prevail due to greater consumption and with increased global demand due to the growing population. the second challenge, that of climate change, is much more clearly pronounced. we know that the energy sector is a major contributor of greenhouse gases, so we need to strengthen the instruments to fight against climate change. last but not least, there is also the challenge of eu enlargement. with new member states joining the european union, we have a much greater need for stronger solidarity mechanisms to be in place in the energy sector in the european union. many of these countries depend on just one supplier and are extremely vulnerable if supplies are disrupted. the energy policy objectives – security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness – very much depend on the situation on the eu common market. on 1 july 2007, there was a major change in perception because now each consumer legally has a chance to choose his supplier. this should bring a real message for investment and should bring better quality. but the message was downplayed because, in many member states, steps have been taken only half-heartedly and not consistently enough. it has been said that world commodity prices are rising because of liberalisation, but the reason has never been liberalisation. the reason is that liberalisation has never happened, which means that, whatever steps are taken, we must provide guarantees that each citizen and each company in the european union has the opportunity and the right to choose a supplier. if the price or the service is not satisfactory, then it must be changed without fearing this process. i believe that it is absolutely necessary to take stronger measures that bring more competition and more europe, because europe’s strength is in its scale and scope. the main measures were well reflected by the rapporteur. i would just like to reflect on a couple of them. unbundling is definitely the key. we are very glad of the wording on the unbundling of electricity. with respect to gas, some additional arguments should be put forward because, basically, the gas situation is no different. as regards gas as well, if unbundling is not done properly, supplies will not reach consumers and, as a result, the market will starve from the lack of gas. transparency is important. with regard to regulation, we should look at two levels. firstly, we should look at the level of cross-border market energy flows and, secondly, see that national regulators should have powers, but also obligations that new investments are made. they are not responsible merely for overseeing the market. they should actually be responsible for those investments being made. cooperation between transmission system operators should be strengthened, as should interconnection policies. i would emphasise also that there have been a couple of other good, important points on energy efficiency, smart grids, biogas and balance with long-term contracts. i would defend one point that perhaps was avoided in the report, or said very cautiously. on regional cooperation, developments of the pentalateral market definitely demonstrate that are many opportunities also working on the regional market. at the same time, i agree with parliament that we should always be cautious not to split the internal market but actually to use this initiative to promote the whole market. in conclusion, i would again like to thank all involved. each of the points made in the report will be taken into due account in the commission proposal. we should not forget that energy is a particular commodity, like earth, water and air. at the same time, i could say that it is a scarcer commodity at this stage, until we have learnt how to get more energy from the sun, the wind or from biomass.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is extremely difficult to equip the internal market in the energy sector better. we have a lot of problems, partly because energy is in the hands of a state company, partly because it is in the hands of an oligopoly, partly because the state intervenes and sets prices. and indeed, that is why we must think about what instruments we can use to reach more markets here! parts of this parliament have problems with the proposals. with some of these proposals, it is true that the unbundling of property rights is the only way to guarantee that liberalisation will take place in the internal market. the data do not necessarily support this. you have to see this! the countries which are energy companies do not necessarily invest the most in networks which are unbundled, but according to the figures available, countries and companies invest very heavily in interconnectors and in networks which are not unbundled. we have to ask ourselves: is there really a distinction to be made between member states where energy companies are state-owned and those where they are privately owned? why is the unbundling only applicable to privately owned systems and not to systems where the state is the owner? how long does it take for this instrument of property unbundling to go through the whole legislative process and be implemented? we want to see change as quickly as possible. but our experience has taught us that it will probably take many years before we have any effect at all if we start this mechanism now. last but not least, the question is who will actually buy these networks. who will own the property in the future? the state, other companies gazprom, hedge funds or how is this supposed to work? is that really what we want? i doubt that this instrument will find the right way. i would therefore like to urge that we also offer member states more alternative options such as iso or rio, i.e. regional cooperation. we must see how we can achieve the common goal by different methods. but we should avoid focusing on any one goal as the only one that will bring salvation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all agree on the objective: we want to create a single european energy market. we want this in the interests of both consumers and businesses. where this has not worked, where the market has failed, the yellow card, and in some cases even the red card, has been needed. the commission has already done so in its proposals, and the rapporteur is also making reference to this. so the target is clear. but it cannot be the destruction of enterprises in the single market! that is why we must strive for better market integration, more investment in the interconnectors, non-discriminatory access to the network for competition. and now there's been a reaction. i am pleased, and we all unanimously welcome, the proposal for the creation of regional markets which is now on the table. seven on the number, i say. these regional markets are to be responsible for network access, system security, capacity provision, regulation, network expansion and congestion management. this requires eu legislation. we hope that you will approach these tasks with the same courage as you did with the previous proposal!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the directive is intended to remove from the market some 30 tonnes of mercury for measuring instruments, not a lot, but a considerable amount. the dangers of mercury are well known, the neurotoxicity is unquestioned. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. where mercury is essential and irreplaceable, it can be preserved under strict conditions. exceptions are therefore only allowed where there are no significant risks or where alternatives are not yet available. the exceptions include special-purpose sphygmomanometers and old measuring instruments, although the number of old measuring instruments will naturally continue to decrease. the two-year transitional period seems to me to be quite sufficient in the area of the barometer. the harmonization of the internal market is crucial to me, and it is being pushed a step further. i agree with the common position.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm telling you, mercury is highly toxic. it harms the environment, the animals, and through the food chain and other channels, also the people. it is right to replace this element wherever possible and useful, but not always and at any cost and not because of the properties of the material itself, but when its use actually poses a danger to the environment. we cannot completely withdraw mercury from the market, because then we would have to abandon another product which is highly prized by many colleagues in this house. the energy-saving lamp, which some people would like to see legislated for climate protection, also contains mercury. if the energy-saving lamp were widely adopted, we would have at least as much of it in our households as we do today with traditional barometers. i am not going to ban mercury from the eu market tomorrow with a whole group of craft companies, while at the same time we want to screw mercury lamps into our frames. i would be interested in hearing the commissioner's answer to this conflict of interests.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for this important report which follows on from the presentation of an initiative by the commission. it is clear that the protection of critical infrastructure is a priority for the european commission as well as for the member states, partly because the need to protect critical infrastructure from, for example, a terrorist attack also stems from the nature of the infrastructure itself and from the interconnection and interdependence between them. if a physical or technological infrastructure of a member state is attacked, the effect is inevitably transmitted to other member states. this is why a common european framework for prevention and protection is needed. we thought the best way forward was to involve the private sector first. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's research programmes are properly coordinated and that the results of the research are available to the european community. the idea is to have real security programmes for the different infrastructure sectors and a real network of liaison officers to guarantee this common european framework. our idea is to consider only those infrastructures which are truly transnational and certainly not those which are confined to the territory of a single member state, except where the implications of this critical infrastructure go beyond the national borders of that state. as you know, last december we adopted a communication to establish a european programme for the protection of critical infrastructure alongside a proposal for a directive to identify which of these infrastructures need to be protected. i am therefore grateful to parliament for having considered all the proposals on such an important subject. it is clear that the communication sets out the principles and processes to be implemented and the instruments to implement those processes, while the directive lays down rules to identify the infrastructures which, according to a common european approach, require protection. we intend to develop this action plan in a broad framework of public-private partnership. we believe that the member states should be helped to develop the various initiatives included in the action plan and we are convinced that the international dimension must be taken into account and that financial measures must be put into practice. we have, of course, a financial programme for the prevention, preparedness and management of the consequences of terrorist risks, which may provide for appropriate funding to be allocated to measures to protect critical infrastructure. i can already anticipate my agreement to some important amendments which parliament is about to consider. the first concerns the need to reiterate in the text of the directive that it is for each member state to identify the forms and methods most appropriate for its implementation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a flexible manner, that is to say, that the measures, whether compulsory or not, must be applied without excessive rigidity. the second point which i think we can agree on is the need to clarify the way in which certain sectors are exempted from some of the obligations identified in the directive. the commission has provided for the possibility of exempting certain sectors and parliament's amendments essentially call for better specification of when such an exemption applies to a given sector. i think i can agree that there is a need to introduce specifications, and that this will bring clarity. i also agree with the proposal to amend the list of critical infrastructure protection areas in annex i to the proposed directive. i think that parliament's proposal to amend this annex is acceptable, as is the introduction of certain amendments in the areas where the comitology procedure is envisaged. there is a specific proposal in this respect, although we must be aware that limiting the use of comitology would increase the time needed to implement the directive. the committee procedure is a somewhat complicated instrument, but it saves time in the implementation process, but i am not opposed to the idea of these amendments. in conclusion, mr president, i am pleased and grateful for the report before us and i hope that parliament will approve it by a very large majority. we need to show our solidarity with a strategic measure such as the european initiative to protect critical energy, transport and technological infrastructures, which require strong prevention and protection because the threat of terrorism is unfortunately directed primarily at critical infrastructure. i am therefore grateful to parliament for the contribution it has already made and will make to this work.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission is not the committee on transport and tourism considers that the commission's proposal for a directive exceeds its powers, because it is based on the wrong assumptions. it speaks of stabilising the internal market, but the directive is mainly intended to protect against terrorist acts. the commission proposal also infringes the principle of subsidiarity, since it is not only intended to supplement existing measures in the member states but also to replace them in part. finally, the proposal does not solve the actual task, but delegates it to a committee on comitology. the committee on transport therefore rejected the commission's proposal, although we know that we need european cooperation. the question is how. my main concern is to ensure that member states are not obliged to report their critical european infrastructures to the commission so that it can then compile a complete list of eu sensitive infrastructures, attach security plans to it and then store it all in some office in brussels. this is contrary to national security interests. a list like that would be an interesting source of information for terrorists. the commission should only define and inventory the most important sectors at risk in europe. the identification of those sectors should remain the responsibility of the member states, as they are the ones primarily responsible for the protection of critical infrastructures and they bear the ultimate responsibility for measures to protect critical infrastructures within their national borders. in the interest of national security, this must remain so. only decentralised management of sensitive infrastructures can reduce the potential for risk. i think that the narrower definition of european critical infrastructure is correct, which requires that at least three or two member states other than the one where the critical infrastructure is located must be affected. it is necessary to ensure that the directive covers only european infrastructures and not national infrastructures. i would also like to point out that for security reasons it is more sensible for the member states to cooperate bilaterally in this area. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, jeanine hennis-plasschaert, and assure her of my support.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is undeniable that we have tackled a very difficult issue with critical european infrastructure. but it is certainly necessary that we deal with this issue at european level and find and develop solutions together with the member states, because the potential threats, as described by the commissioner, are there and must therefore be taken seriously. it is, however, rather difficult to answer the question of where the european competence lies, what needs to be regulated at european level and where certain decentralised tasks need to be carried out. this question has been on the committee's mind for a long time. we have tried - and i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for the very fair and open cooperation - to find a way of doing this which ensures the exchange of best practice between the member states and coordination at eu level, but which also puts the principle of subsidiarity at the centre. we do not want to report specific critical infrastructures and collect them, as mrs sommer has already said, but we want to ensure that secrecy is guaranteed. we have therefore agreed that the member states will inform the commission of their respective critical sectors and not of specific infrastructures. we have made it a point to do without a comitology procedure and i am grateful to the commissioner for having met parliament here. the rapporteur has already pointed out that the inefficiency of the procedure in the past has given little encouragement to continue along this path. we suggest another way. it was important to us - and i will say this - to avoid unnecessary red tape, to have a single point of contact in the member states to identify and identify, and not to create new red tape, to reduce the administrative burden and to provide a high degree of flexibility.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unlike the committee on industry, research and energy or the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which is the lead committee, did not recognise the importance of the european level in the protection of critical infrastructures. the focus is no longer on protecting individual infrastructures, but on looking at sectors. i think the procedure proposed in the report is indecisive. the added value of involving the european level has been almost completely abandoned. it is clear that the responsibility for critical infrastructure must lie with the member states. however, a purely national designation will not identify the weaknesses and structural dependencies which are necessary in the designation of critical european infrastructures. the idea that a list could be used as a guide to an attack is naive. such lists have been in existence for a long time in the nation states. one of the most important structural errors was, for example, that we did not compare these lists with nato. in the military field, such lists of critical infrastructure have been in place within nato for 40 years, and for military emergencies, scenarios have long been in place.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur in particular for her contribution to the success of the conciliation meeting. it has enabled us to reach a balanced text after four years of discussions. the rapporteur should, i think, be commended for the efficiency with which she has largely contributed to the success of this dossier. i believe that this is a key text for the completion of the european area of justice and the proper functioning of the internal market. it seems that its effective implementation is now highly anticipated by the legal and judicial circles as well as by economic operators at the level of the european union. on the one hand, 'rome ii' will contribute to the strengthening of legal certainty in civil liabilities, which is fundamental for the proper functioning of the internal market. the regulation will also facilitate the mutual recognition of judgments, a pillar of the european area of justice, thus promoting mutual trust between the judicial systems of the member states. a key issue for parliament is improving compensation for victims of road accidents. in this connection, i confirm my commitment and that of the commission to launch a thorough study at european level as soon as possible and to take the necessary measures, which could lead to the adoption of a green paper. i also confirm the commission's commitment to submit to the co-legislator, before the end of 2008, another study on the legal situation regarding breaches of privacy, which takes into account the rules on freedom of the press and freedom of expression of the media. if necessary, appropriate measures will be taken, based on consultations, as i promised during the conciliation phase. finally, as regards the complex issue of the application of foreign law by the courts, the commission, aware of the existence of different practices in the member states, will publish, no later than four years after the entry into force of rome ii, a comparative analysis and will stand ready to take all appropriate measures as a result. in conclusion, i would like parliament to confirm this agreement reached in conciliation to mark the end of the long awaited adoption of the rome ii regulation and i hope that the text will be supported by a large majority of members.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not we have said in the second reading debate that we want to leave as much room for manoeuvre as possible to parliament. i have no doubt, commissioner, that we will finally have a large majority tomorrow. i was involved in the conciliation process until the end and i must therefore say that i think we - not only parliament but all the parties involved - have made little use of the margins of manoeuvre. at one point or another, we would have wished for something more! mrs wallis has already commented on this. i am convinced that, particularly in the case of classics, road accidents, or even in matters such as criminal damages, a large majority of citizens would be prepared to go much further than statesmen. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it also shows - and i hope very much - that we will be more transparent in the future. it also turns out that often the officials have their own horses and are much more brittle and reserved than necessary. unfortunately, the politics are not quite up to par. we need more courageous political decisions, including in the conciliation committees. often the member state which is then so bulky at the twelfth hour is not so bulky politically. we have now embarked on this path as a parliament, with one of the first cases in this area where co-decision is applied, and we should use the margins of manoeuvre even more confidently in the future and prove that we can also make such negotiations fail. in the long run, the canteen of studies and evaluations which will comfort us for three or four years will not be enough if the citizens want a decision here and now!
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to warmly thank the committee on transport and tourism and in particular the rapporteur, mr ferber, for the excellent work they have carried out in the preparation of your report on the postal directive. this is all the more impressive as the preparation involved five other committees and nearly 600 amendments. moreover, the dossier is highly sensitive politically and technically complex. our proposal is based on sound preparation. it is not the implementation of abstract theories dreamed up in an ivory tower or based on ideological zeal. market opening is not an end in itself, but good for the consumer, good for business and therefore for the whole economy. after months of discussion there is always a risk that we may lose sight of the original intention. therefore let me just remind you of what our proposal actually entails. first and foremost, the commission’s proposal aims to guarantee a high quality universal service for all users throughout the european union. postal users and consumers are entitled to top-class postal services. they must be accessible to all at affordable prices. secondly, based on detailed study and wide consultation, the commission confirms in its proposal that 2009 is the target date for the abolition of any remaining exclusive rights and monopolies. such exclusive rights and monopolies prevent competition and the positive effects it has had on innovation, quality and prices. thirdly, our proposal confirms the availability of a broad range of financing mechanisms member states may choose from in order to finance any net cost or unfair burden the universal service obligation may impose on the universal service providers. fourthly, the proposal allows for more flexibility in terms of pricing of postal services so that they can better reflect actual costs, while maintaining the possibility for uniform tariffs for consumer or single-piece tariff mail. the commission attaches great importance to the role postal services play for territorial and social cohesion. uniform tariffs for consumer mail are a reflection of this. the proposal also reinforces consumers’ rights in terms of redress, for example. fifthly, the proposal seeks to amend provisions concerning authorisation and licensing to reduce unjustified barriers to entry. the proposal also clarifies rules on access to postal infrastructure. finally, the proposal provides for greater clarity on the role and independence of national regulatory authorities. these elements build on the success achieved to date with the gradual opening of the market and will provide a framework that will allow the postal sector to develop its potential. it is truly the final step in a long process started the better part of two decades ago. it is common knowledge that a ‘communications revolution’ is taking place. this is a significant challenge for all of us in our daily lives. it poses a threat for those postal operators that fail to adapt. no reserved area can protect any postal operator from the competition from other means of communication. the only option is to reform and to adapt and to turn the challenge into an opportunity. this fast-changing context makes it all the more necessary to finalise the reform process which started more than 15 years ago. the european parliament has shaped this reform significantly at all stages. the commission is ready to assist so that the internal market on postal services can finally be accomplished. experience with market opening to date has been overwhelmingly positive. efficiency, quality and performance have substantially increased. a high-quality universal service at affordable prices is being provided throughout the european union. it is our joint responsibility that this continues to be the case. full market opening is the right way forward. in the past months some have tried to portray market opening and the success of other postal operators as threats. however, most have now realised that these are challenges that we must face and that it is much more important to focus on how to face them. on the whole, the constructive approach prevails. this makes me optimistic that common ground on this important file can be found at the end of the day. in conclusion, this directive constitutes an essential element of the lisbon agenda. the time is now ripe to give eu citizens the choice they are entitled to and expect. mail users and consumers will be the main beneficiaries of the directive. market opening in 2009 will introduce controlled and regulated competition that will foster innovation, new business models and new services. it is not the question of dividing up the cake differently, or of introducing reform at the expense of the people working in the sector, but it is the question of increasing the size of the market and letting everyone benefit from this.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. one of the most important issues we will be discussing in the second half of this parliamentary term is the opening of the postal services. it is a matter which has occupied us since the third and fourth legislatures - if i may recap the whole development since the green paper presented by the european commission in 1992. it is important that we as a parliament send a clear signal today and tomorrow when we vote. a development which began in the late 1980s is now to be brought to a successful conclusion. what's the matter? to put it very simply, it's about going from supply-oriented mail to demand-oriented mail. we had monopolies in all the member states for 200 years. we shall hear in the debate today many problems which exist in the postal sector. the only conclusion i can draw is that monopolies are not in a position to solve these problems. the problems can only be solved if there is - and we have attached great importance to this - fair competition in the european union, which takes great account of the conditions of workers, but which still allows competition. this is the model that we have worked out together in the committee on transport and tourism, across party lines, across national lines. i should like to take this opportunity to thank all the colleagues who have taken part in this debate and who support this compromise. we are clearly saying that we want to open postal markets in all member states by the end of 2010, with a few exceptions until 2012. we are saying clearly that those who come from the protected area do not have the right to participate in what is already a competitive environment. that is reciprocity. let me be clear about one thing: it is always said that this is contrary to the eu treaty. i can only recommend that everyone take a look at the postal directive currently in force. it is expressly forbidden to take the profits from the monopoly into the competitive field. in the area of competition, more than 10 cases are pending against member states where this is precisely the suspicion. so if the existing directive is already providing a tool to ensure this kind of reciprocity, then we should do so too. we have made it clear that there must be no change in the scope of postal services which must be available to every citizen in the european union. the universal service must be available to every citizen, wherever he lives, in the countryside or in the city, on the edge of europe or in the heart of europe. this is the right way to go here. we have already made sure in other liberalisations that there is a legal right to a certain benefit. we had to answer the big question: how can this universal service be financed? here we have worked out a good answer together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are five instruments, if you read the directive carefully - four that the commission has proposed and a few mixed forms that we have provided for - that will make it possible to organise this universal service throughout the community. we have set a clear timetable for what the commission and the member states have to do before the markets are opened. in this way, no one is surprised by what is coming, but all this is done in agreement with the member states. we have put a strong emphasis on consumer protection aspects: the commissioner has already mentioned the standard tariffs which are intended to continue to allow the citizen to use a standard letter in his member state. we also want to continue to guarantee the blind post. on the basis of the commission's proposal, we have introduced a comprehensive complaints system so that consumer rights are protected even in a liberalised area. we have dealt very intensively with the question of workers in this sector. the postal services in the european union are more than one million employees who naturally also want to know how they will fare in a liberalized environment. i think we have found the right answers here, both as regards the definition of a postal service provider and as regards the safeguarding of the nationally guaranteed rights. i would like to thank all those who have worked to achieve this compromise, in particular the commission for its active support, and i hope that the council will be able to formulate a common position on the basis of our first reading shortly.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. postal market liberalisation also has a regional dimension, as the reliability and quality of delivery is a regional location factor for the economy as well as for the population. i should like to begin by thanking richard seeber, who drafted the opinion for the committee on regional development. he asked me to take his part. i also thank the rapporteur, mr ferber, for his very balanced report. we welcome the opening of markets in principle. it is not an end in itself but an instrument for increasing the efficiency and improving the quality of the postal sector. liberalisation will lead to a multiplication of jobs compared with protected markets, as in other sectors. the committee on regional development nevertheless calls for a more detailed analysis of the effects of liberalisation. how do free markets affect regional cohesion and competitiveness? in particular, for rural and remote areas, we need to develop market-oriented solutions with private providers that do not lead to an increase in costs for customers and do not lead to a loss in delivery density. in this context, e-commerce and internet mail order offers interesting prospects for rural areas, also in terms of equivalent substitution of formerly state-owned services. however, the committee on regional development says that further impact assessments are needed to ensure the sustainability of universal service. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs intended for human consumption, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1993, is a very important step towards the creation of a european food safety area. the resulting opening up at different rates must not, however, lead to state monopolies from protected areas offering their services in liberalised member states or regions. this form of distortion of competition must also be applied by member states and ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in this report, the section on 'alternative investment vehicles' also deals with hedge funds and private equity funds. it is absolutely essential that parliament should make clear statements on this. hedge funds are known and notorious worldwide for a particularly aggressive form of exploitation of labour, the looting of businesses and the ruthless destruction of jobs. their actions are rightly compared to those of locusts. in view of these dangers, the wording of the report falls far short of what is required. we need clear and unambiguous rules. it is necessary to include in the guidelines for the operations of hedge funds and private equity funds the following provisions: minimum requirements for the equity ratio of such funds, full inclusion of the capital gains in the income and profit taxation in the country of the respective management company, registration obligation, obligation to disclose the structure of assets and ownership and current transactions, and many others. our group has tabled amendments to this effect and we very much hope that they will be taken into account in the vote.
the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. it has succeeded in bringing together a wide spectrum of views in the european parliament. the eu's single market for financial services is a success story. the commission's guidelines, the implementation by parliament and the council and in the member states are gradually making the european market more attractive than the american one. we can also see this in the fact that european stock exchanges are bought up by the americans so that they can protect their influence accordingly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the main point is the future of supervision in europe. we are seeing the development of cross-border banking. i will just mention unicredito, the hypovereinsbank from bavaria, the bank austria. we have the debate on abn amro and the santander bank, which bought in the uk. here we must ensure that supervisory regimes follow this development, that not only one supervisor remains responsible for his or her member state, but that there is cooperation in europe. this is not a plea for a european supervisor! but we must put european development more at the centre of our attention. we have taken the first step with basel ii and the lead supervisor. i strongly support the commission in taking a bold approach to solvency ii. i hope that the national supervisors and the national finance ministries will be a little more cooperative and more responsive to change than they have been so far. we must also think about how we will shape the transatlantic relationship in the future. the trend is increasingly towards the sec the american supervisor indirectly co-regulating the european market. this can't be! we need a european response to the sec, which is trying to prevent this. i just remember that an austrian bank had to cancel its customers just because it was bought by an american fund. because the customers were cubans. the commission regularly deals with regional banks. that may be true. i do not want to prejudge the outcome of the debate, but the subject of hedge funds must be discussed in an open debate. we cannot say that we do not deal with this subject because we are afraid of the result!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate on the liberalization of the postal services has taken up a great deal of time today. it is also a typical example of the fact that, particularly in the service sector, liberalisation is accompanied by an increase in precarious working conditions. in the light of these developments, everyone expects the commission to commit itself to strengthening workers' rights in a green paper on labour law, to adopt minimum standards at european level to ensure that workers' rights are respected and to strengthen collective representation and social dialogue. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the legal basis for the directive. this is a bitter disappointment and a growing scepticism of europe. the parliament has made a significant correction here: labour law is not exclusive, but applies to all workers, regardless of their contractual situation; the de facto situation is decisive. the only way to achieve greater flexibility is to build on the foundation of greater security, and this is the only way to develop the dossier.
i have to say, madam president, let me point out that an error has crept into the list of votes of the epp-ed group. in the vote on the legal basis, amendment no 39, we must have a negative in the list instead of a plus.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i voted against the report by mr vidal-quadras, not because i am against the opening up of the electricity and gas markets, but quite the contrary. but i cannot agree with one of the key demands, namely the unbundling of property rights, or rather i cannot agree with it yet, for three reasons: firstly, we must give some national regulators more time to establish effective competition controls; secondly, i do not think that it has been demonstrated that ownership unbundling encourages investment in networks; and thirdly, the proposal for unbundling does not apply where the network and generation are still state-owned. it is precisely here that we should impose strict liberalisation requirements on those who have so far refused to compete, rather than weaken those who are on the right track in terms of market economy with a strict requirement for unbundling.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur, mr jacek protasiewicz, has, despite considerable time pressure, worked out a compromise which maintains the balance between security and flexibility in modern labour law. some of the wording is still not precise enough, for example in article 35, which defines employment status differently at different times. self-employed at noon, employed at night how is this supposed to work? selfemployed persons who are economically dependent are selfemployed even if they have only one employer. they are the founders of micro-enterprises, and they create a large proportion of jobs in the eu. the attempt to draw a sharp distinction between employees and selfemployed people led to the collapse of the wave of entrepreneurship and thousands of small businesses in my country (germany) in the 1990s. i am particularly concerned about the liability and individual liability of general and principal contractors. this is problematic in practice. the general contractor is entrusted with state tasks. it is burdened with further red tape and considerable costs. i have tabled an amendment to this effect which clearly rejects such far-reaching commitments. in another amendment i would like to emphasize the competence of the european union and the member states respectively in the field of labour law, as laid down in articles 127 and 137 of the ec treaty. we must reject additional regulation or harmonization at european level. i recommend that we approve the report tomorrow after considering the amendments, not least because of the genuine effort of our rapporteur to achieve balance.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 11 july 2007. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the posting of workers. the commission is also proposing to extend the deadline for the submission of proposals to the council. by jan andersson, on behalf of the empl committee.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. this discussion is also a warning: if this communication is another attempt to reinstate the deleted articles 24 and 25 of the original services directive through the back door, then parliament is clearly against it! the posting directive is designed to protect workers and this objective remains intact! the posting of workers directive applies the 'on-the-spot' principle, which also means that all the measures taken by the member states to protect posted workers and guarantee their rights at the place of employment are legitimate and voluntary. the posting of workers directive is a law for the free internal market in services. but this freedom is not at any price. there is no excuse for social dumping. i am tired of having a discussion at the green table about whether it is theoretically possible to obtain proof of a fair wage payment in two or four weeks in the country of origin. the situation on europe's construction sites, large and small, speaks a different language. without the possibility of on-the-spot checks on payroll, the scope for criminal activity is greatly expanded. you don't want to take responsibility for that, do you? go to the construction sites before you take any further steps. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. equal pay for equal work in the same place - that must remain the principle that applies here!
i have to say, madam president, on 13 june, the commission's employment directorate-general published a communication stating that some member states are not implementing the employment act in accordance with the provisions of the relevant paragraphs. germany is one of them. my country is accused of applying controls too strictly and thus excluding workers from other member states. this is a provocation! i hope that the commissioner, whom i admire for his balance, will take a more balanced approach. cooperation between sending and receiving countries is important, but it cannot replace effective control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. but this can only be ensured if we know the essential documents, and that is in the language of the host country. these are available: employment contracts, pay slips, working time certificates. the advocate general of the european court of justice supports this view. it is clear that inspectors have considerable problems with documents which are not written in the language of the country concerned. secondly, in order to properly serve a reminder, the addressee must provide proof of an address in germany and not of a dubious mailbox address abroad, chosen only to be as untraceable as possible. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected. the address also includes the place of work. i think that's a fair solution. the threat of infringement proceedings is a mere pretext! the european union, commissioner, must be fair, especially when it comes to checks! commissioner špidla, please maintain your balance and your eyesight, as we are used to seeing you do.
the commission has already done so. when we discussed the services directive, we said very clearly and unequivocally that the services directive must not in any way affect social rights in the member states. that is why we have removed the famous articles 24 and 25 from the services directive, because these rights must not be reversed by the back door. we also agreed that if there are problems, the posting directive should be amended accordingly to remove any ambiguities. i would like to recall this compromise, which the european commission also agreed to at the time, and i would like to ask for this agreement again. i share your view, commissioner, that the lack of or poor cooperation between the authorities is one of the main reasons why we have such problems with the posting of workers directive. do you really think that the lack of cooperation will be remedied by abolishing the controls, the documentation and all the things necessary for control? on the contrary! the lack of documentation and the lack of cooperation between the authorities are a case of social dumping. is that what you want? i don't think he did. let us therefore work together to improve administrative cooperation and to open up the markets for services and the markets for workers to the highest possible social standards. we are doing something positive for europe, that is, we are not going destructively against the member states, but we are going to make positive efforts to find solutions that will really help us to move things forward. this is the way we should go. otherwise, we're not going to get anything we really want.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 11 july 2007.
the next item is the report by willi piecyk, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the future eu maritime policy: a european vision for oceans and seas (2006/2299 (ini)) (a6-0235/2007)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the maritime policy has also opened up new areas for parliament. five committees were involved in this report and have produced a very good result. i would like to begin by thanking colleagues satu hassi, struan stevenson, jorgo chatzimarkakis and yiannakis matsis as co-rapporteurs for their cooperation. i would also like to thank my collaborators helge jordan and dörte schramm and the intern jan for his research , because without my collaborators this report would not have been possible. my dear colleagues! consider the following situation with regard to the sea: 90% of the eu's external trade and 40% of its internal trade is carried by sea. 40% of europe's gross domestic product is generated in coastal regions. around two thirds of all europeans prefer to holiday on the coast and coastal tourism generated 72 billion euros in 2004 alone. but coastal tourism requires clean seas. this illustrates the need - yes, the need - for the eu to not only formulate but also implement an integrated maritime policy. it is the commission's great merit that it has put this need on the european agenda with the green paper on the marine policy. the green paper, however, is often vague, descriptive and not very specific. after a year of consultations, we now need fewer conferences and more measures, more concrete political action, in the words of goethe: 'enough of words, let me see deeds at last!' i'm not going to tell you. if we adopt the report tomorrow, the commission - and of course the member states - will have a lot of work to do. my staff have been counting. the draft report contains over 80 demands to the commission and the council. if we sum up these generously, there are still 33 packages of measures which we expect the council and the commission to implement in the future. i want to address just a few important areas. keyword shipping: we expect the council to adopt immediately seven legislative measures on ship safety, namely port state control, emergency berths, liability after accidents, etc. this is only addressed to the portuguese presidency. a particular anachronism is that short sea shipping is still treated as international trade in europe. that is why coastal shipping must finally be integrated into the internal market. maritime motorways: we have not made a millimetre of progress since the adoption of the trans-european networks in 2004. the commission must appoint a coordinator to get things moving! tackling climate change: shipping is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport in the world, but it is not the cleanest. 4 percent of the world's co2 emissions, and then there's a lot of sulfur dioxide and nitrous oxide emissions. i am convinced that we cannot get around the emissions trading in shipping. but even more important is a drastic reduction in shipping emissions and also the use of renewable energy such as wind and solar on ships. at the same time, there is great growth potential for european shipbuilding and its supplier industry. the leadership 2015 programme is particularly concerned with the future competitiveness of this entire sector. maritime climate policy includes providing shore-based energy to ships in ports wherever possible, and it also includes implementing the long overdue commission action plan to promote offshore wind energy. keyword employment: when the maritime sector complains that young people do not want to take up the relevant professions, one must ask: how actively have these professions been equipped in the past? that's why we need an education offensive. but it is also true that workers on ships cannot be second-class workers. keyword: marine pollution: 100% of ship-generated waste in ports must be disposed of. we must fight illegal oil pipelines. but at the same time, when 80% of marine pollution is caused by land-based sources, it is necessary that there is a concrete action plan from the commission to deal with this. keyword marine research: we have excellent institutes in this union, but they are not networked, so we need a european marine science consortium with all the institutes and the strong support of the commission. i have to say, madam president, i don't want to moralize, but it's undeniable that the sea doesn't need us, but we need the sea. and because of that, we need a good, integrated european maritime policy. we will therefore measure each council presidency by how it achieves progress in the future on maritime policy. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has really set the standard in cooperation. i've never seen such a good cooperation. i congratulate you! i would like to thank the commission for presenting the green paper and for the integrated approach. it's about time. we europeans - and i say this from the point of view of the committee on industry, research and energy - have a lot to offer in the field of maritime policy! we are world leaders in maritime clusters, we are world leaders in shipyards, 40% of the merchant fleets are european-owned and we supply 35% of the total maritime equipment from the eu. we're also very good at research! blue biotechnology is a future area, with a lot of potential for energy from the sea and also for reducing co2 emissions. but we do not speak with one voice. that is why it is good that this approach is now in place. the package you are about to send, commissioner, is one we are eagerly awaiting. the world is watching us because it expects something from us. we hope for a good package!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr willi piecyk, for the excellent work he has done on this report. i would like to make two brief points in my speech. first, on the energy side: the ocean provides an infinite amount of energy. the wind energy sector has a special place here, and it has great potential. this potential must be exploited. how can we make the most of it? europe needs strong incentive systems to encourage investors to take the risk of investing in offshore wind energy. the creation of these conditions requires coordination. i therefore expressly welcome the fact that the report calls on the commission to present an action plan for the development of wind energy. the wind energy action plan also achieves the target of meeting 20% of the pirmäinen energy demand by 2020 from renewable energy, as decided at the spring summit. i also welcome the fact that the report envisages the installation of an intelligent grid infrastructure. this is the only way to achieve the 50 gw of installed offshore capacity proposed in the report for 2020. secondly, climate change and shipping. climate change will have a significant impact on the seas and oceans. therefore, the transport mode using water as a transport medium must also be included in emissions trading. the legislative procedure to include air transport is currently undergoing its first reading in parliament. given that shipping emits much more greenhouse gases than air transport, i support the rapporteur's call for shipping to be included in the emissions trading system.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank willi piecyk very warmly for his really excellent report. i come from a region with a deep-rooted maritime tradition. overfishing of the seas and the collapse of several shipyards led to unemployment rates of up to 20%. but shipbuilding is back. instead of fish processing, biotechnology is in demand. the offshore wind energy site is growing. climate research is being written about in a big way. this is the result of major investment not only in research and innovation but also in education and training. we must do more to promote training in maritime professions! this is where good jobs are created and where the future is assured. the growth potential is estimated at around 15% over the next five years alone, and i am glad that the report by willi piecyk has placed a clear emphasis on this, unlike the commission's green paper. in conclusion, i would appeal to all members to support my group's amendment, which calls for an end to the status of seafarers as second-class workers. the european minimum standards in labour law must also apply to them.
member of the commission. as i just said, we have quite a number of these different guidelines and we are implementing the guidelines that are there. i just mentioned, for instance, the eu strategy on the rights of the child. this is done first by political dialogue. secondly, we are also helping them with their own strategies. that means we are working with the individual countries and we are also supporting financially the recent revision of the cape town principles. as i said, that resulted in the paris principles and we are also officially expressing political support for those guidelines. so we are trying to work on all the different fronts by helping the countries but by also using our own projects.
member of the commission. this is a question on the strategy of the black sea region. beyond the three eu member states, the black sea region comprises seven other countries covered by european union policies: one is the neighbourhood policy, the pre-accession process in the case of turkey is the second, and then we have the strategic partnership with russia. these, and mainly the european neighbourhood policy, determine our strategy towards the region as a whole. promoting prosperity and stability is therefore one of our main goals, and we offer substantial cooperation programmes. recently we have, as you know, put forward a black sea synergy initiative that has just been adopted under the german presidency. the region is of key importance to us, particularly for eu energy supplies – not only security of energy supplies but also diversification. we are also promoting a dialogue with all the black sea countries on energy security to provide a transparent framework for production, transport and transit, not only in a regional context but also to enhance our own energy security and supplies through diversification. we are also working on upgrading the existing energy infrastructure and on promoting the development of new infrastructure in the context of a caspian sea-black sea-eu energy corridor. there are also all the human rights standards as set out by the council of europe and the oece that also apply to all the black sea states. we therefore want to improve human rights standards, but we also want to support and strengthen democratic structures and civil society in particular. this is key. finally, security is the third point and, in particular, the ‘frozen conflicts’ that present a huge challenge. we hope that active eu involvement in ongoing efforts to address these conflicts will provide an opportunity to resolve them in the not too distant future.
- i'm not sure. thank you very much for the very detailed and comprehensive answer. i have two supplementary questions. firstly, we are dealing with an urgent debate on transnistria on thursday. how do you assess the situation in moldova? the second question concerns the area of tension in the three south caucasian states, where much greater tensions have arisen in recent days and weeks - something like proxy conflicts. is the commission acting as an intermediary here?
member of the commission. as for the druzhba pipeline there is no other instrument that continues to keep this question on the agenda. nesco really cannot help: its role is to prevent or anticipate the disruption of supplies and it therefore cannot provide the necessary information. we are not asking too much. we need clear data and commitments. will they use the pipe? if so, when do they expect to use it? we are not asking for secret data. we are just asking normal questions that good neighbours should exchange because it is not related to security of supply. we are saying that it is a good idea to use the pipeline because it stops congestion on the seas and diminishes environmental risks. we are all hoping that the pipeline will be back in use as soon as possible and, if necessary, we would be willing to provide whatever support was necessary. therefore, nesco has a very limited role in this because it is an instrument for alleviating supply risks.
member of the commission. for oil, we have not, so far, had trans-european energy networks. i would say it is high time to reconsider this because we have undervalued supply risks concerning oil. so we should bring oil back into our energy debate in this house, as well as in the council and in the commission. we are now preparing a study evaluating all the risks of oil supply, which parts of the world we get it from, what role is played by congestion, where the risks come from etc. i believe at some stage we should move to promote particular projects. one very obvious oil project where we would like to promote development is the reversal of the flow of the odessa-brody-płock-gdańsk pipeline because it brings oil from the congested black sea region to its markets. this is a project i can already mention where i would envisage the need for such a coordinator, but today the legal framework does not apply to oil.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, i would like to thank very warmly the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation on the first railway package. in principle, the first railway package was a complete success. the opening up of europe's networks to rail freight has proved successful. the countries that have done particularly well in this respect are those that have prepared for it at an early stage and have not waited for the networks to be opened. germany increased its rail freight by 25%, the netherlands increased its rail freight by 42.5% after the opening of the networks, and the united kingdom and poland increased their rail freight by 60% for the united kingdom, however, at a low level. this is good for the environment and good for transport in europe! the countries that didn't prepare, that waited until the last minute, didn't do so well. for example, france, which opened its networks to freight transport only at the beginning of this year, has had to reduce its rail freight traffic by 28% over the same period. goods are now increasingly transported by road. it doesn't fit into the climate policy landscape! in my report i also mention that the modal split has not changed overall. the reason for this is, of course, that we do not have a fair framework between the different modes of transport. we have a blatantly unfair framework! we can also say that transport in europe is too cheap, only the environmentally friendly rail transport is too expensive. and we also have an unfair promotion practice: some 95% of the total eu co-financing in the transport sector goes to road transport and not to rail, as is always claimed and claimed in sunday speeches! i am therefore very pleased that we in the committee have reached agreement that in future 40% of the funds spent on the transport sector should go to railways. we cannot allow our efforts to be thwarted by faulty financing practices. the unfair conditions can also be expressed in the form of the eu imposing on us, for example, a compulsory railway toll, which applies to all locomotives on all routes and is unlimited in height. on the road, on the other hand, we have a height-limited road toll, which is voluntary, which may or may not be levied by the member states, and which applies only to motorways and only to lorries over 12 tonnes. this is unfair competition, and that has to change, or the railroad has no chance! some of the new member states are, for example: they charge a very high toll for the transport of goods by rail. the eight highest rail user charges are levied in the new member states. at the same time, this high toll subsidizes passenger transport, which receives little or no government subsidy, and allows goods to be transported duty-free on the road. this is a model to shift transport from rail to road - the exact opposite of what the commissioner responsible, the eu, always claims to want to do. so we want a fair competition. this fair competition is not yet complete. the railway companies, which have no long tradition of state ownership, are the ones who feel themselves handicapped in europe. these include complaints that network access or a favourable route cannot be granted because it has already been awarded to the group's own railway, that their wishes cannot be met because a loop has previously been extended or a bypass has been dismantled by the state-owned companies, that slow stops are imposed without reason so that the wishes of the new freight transport companies cannot be met, that track prices are drastically increased when state-owned railway companies are sold to another company, that cross-subsidisation is not prevented, that non-state-owned companies often pay higher energy prices than subsidiaries. you see, despite our success, there's still a lot to do! the modal split between road and rail has not improved but has actually worsened in europe as a whole. but we can say that the first railway package has stopped the decline. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the european parliament has taken up the commission's report on the implementation of the first railway package of 3 may 2006, and i would like to thank mr cramer, the author of the report, in particular, for his very serious and solid work. the challenge for european rail policy is to establish a regulatory framework that encourages new investment and the provision of competitive transport services in a common railway area. the creation of this common railway area requires the full and correct transposition of community provisions. in its 2006 report, the commission identified the conditions to be met in order to meet the challenge: i will recall the most important ones. first, the restructuring of the historical companies must be completed. it must be carried out in compliance with the conditions of accounting separation and neutrality of the essential functions such as capacity allocation and pricing. secondly, the principles underlying rail infrastructure pricing must be established by taking into account the pricing of other modes of transport. this must be part of an overall strategy to promote fair competition in fashion and thus sustainable development. thirdly, the proper functioning of the control and safety bodies requires that these same bodies be provided with the necessary financial and human resources. these bodies must enjoy real independence. the european parliament broadly endorses the priorities for action identified by the commission. these priorities highlight the conditions of intermodal and intramodal competition and the rules governing the separation of infrastructure and operation. the commission is seeking to create a fair and balanced competitive environment for intermodal competition. in your report, mr cramer, you talk about fairer competition between modes of transport, in particular through the internalisation of the external costs of road transport. when the eurovignette directive was adopted, i committed myself to submitting a methodology for the internalisation of external costs in june 2008. well, that promise will be kept! as regards the conditions of intra-modal competition, i support your position in favour of the rapid deployment of the european ertms/etcs signalling system and the reduction of the noise level of wagons. on the last point, noise pollution, i shall present a communication from the commission on the measures to be taken. we also agree on infrastructure. this is the priority to promote good performance in rail freight transport. in october i will be proposing to the commission a communication on a freight-oriented rail network in europe. this document will present an action plan covering the main suggestions in your resolution. finally, i fully agree with the need for strict neutrality of the functions which are essential to the success of the policy of opening up markets and strengthening competition. your report describes the positive effects of opening up on rail freight performance in the member states which opened up their markets first. finally, i would like to remind you that the commission intends to do everything in its power to ensure that the member states actually implement the provisions of the railway packages. and if necessary, we will open infringement proceedings against you. a european market can only develop if the regulatory framework is consistent across the whole of europe. non-discriminatory access to rail transport related services, for example in railway sorting stations, is essential for the proper functioning of the railway market. my services are also assessing options for a revision of the legislation of the first railway package on this point, which will lead us to a revision of the european railway code next year. that is what i wanted to say in reply to mr cramer, to whom i would like to say thank you again. i would of course like to confirm to him that the commission and myself as commissioner intend to do everything possible to ensure that the modal shift to rail is as large as possible in the years to come. i shall now listen to the members very carefully, mr president, so that i can reply to them at the end of the debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. mr cramer, i know that your report has not always and everywhere been very enthusiastic. we don't need to talk about that today. it lacks balance and it lacks practicality. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. that is why we have tabled 20 amendments, including 11 aimed at deleting complete paragraphs. the vote on the committee on transport and tourism was then taken to my satisfaction. the commission has been asked to take immediate action against those member states which have not yet implemented the first and second railway packages in time. secondly, it was important to us that the thirty priority projects of the transeuropean networks should be given priority in the question of financing the further expansion of european transport routes. unfortunately, the complete deletion of the paragraph 'regulating the separation of grid and operation' could not be enforced. i am firmly opposed to restricting the choice between different organizational models. we need to have a sound basis for our findings. we need to know what the advantages and disadvantages of such a separation actually are. we still need flexibility for railway companies today. that is why we have asked for a separate vote. i should like to say a few words about the problems of the 'gigaliner', the oversized 60-tonne lorries. we shall not be able to agree to your amendment on this subject, mr cramer, when we vote tomorrow on this report, which is the railway package. i do, however, share the view that goods belong on the railway. that is why this may seem contradictory, but an amendment on the gigalin question has no place in this report. we'll discuss this at the ayala station report. there will also be time for debate.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! that was interesting . mr meijer has practically reenacted the early history of the railways. the idea of railroads being laid from village to village for the transport of goods must have seemed unrealistic to you, too. mr. cramer, i cannot share this simple demonization of the truck! the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the exemption. so the claim that the truck is running for free and that the competition is distorted is simply unrealistic. i fully share your view that it is not right for the ministry of finance in poland to set the prices of trains too high. but that is a question which the polish government must deal with, not european legislation. we should perhaps remind the polish government that the targets are not to improve the polish budget but to promote the railway industry. but this has nothing to do with trucks! i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you to ensure that the second railway package is also implemented swiftly by all the member states. we have insisted that the networks must be opened up to national and crossborder goods traffic by 1 january this year, and i see a great opportunity to serve the markets in europe cross-border. you have raised a point which i would like to raise and i would ask you to elaborate on it. you said that the commission is happy to help reduce the noise caused by railway wagons. they've announced a message. my question is: when will you submit this communication? do you think that european aspects will be given more prominence, or will you open up national funding opportunities? the noise pollution is something we cannot tolerate in the big cities at the moment, when, for example, railway trains run through residential areas at night. if you want to help, we'd appreciate it.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal you are debating today is a great success for the european community. it aims to modernise and complete the 1992 regulations which created the single aviation market in europe. the creation of this single aviation market has enabled air transport in europe to expand in an unprecedented way. the number of airlines has increased and there has been a general increase in traffic and competition. since full liberalisation in 1997, the number of routes has increased by more than 60%; the number of cities served is increasing, especially in remote areas. the emergence of new competitors has led to a significant reduction in fares on many routes. more and more europeans can travel by air. this contributes to economic growth and the creation of direct and indirect jobs. in view of this success, the commission intends to maintain the basic principles of this liberalized market. the proposal is simply to simplify the consolidation of existing legislation. it also proposes some adjustments to improve the efficiency of its application. firstly, the revision allows for a cleaning of the text to remove obsolete parts related to the transition phase towards the liberalised market. the text is clarified, ambiguities are removed, and three regulations are consolidated into one text. secondly, the proposal aims to achieve an effective and uniform application of community rules. at present there are differences between member states in the application of the third package. this revision will lead to more uniform application, particularly as regards the granting and monitoring of operating licences. the proposal also strengthens the monitoring of the financial viability of airlines, in particular of new entrants. thirdly, the proposal strengthens the coordination of member states on intra-community services and on transit flights by third country airlines. it is important to promote a coordinated community approach to ensure the integrity of the european market and to facilitate the work of negotiators with third countries. finally, fourthly, the proposal protects new rights for passengers. the right of passengers to have full information on the actual price of a ticket, including taxes, charges and fees. the right not to be discriminated against on grounds of nationality or residence when buying a ticket. this update should therefore further enhance the attractiveness of the european single market in many third countries. these principles apply not only to switzerland and the countries of the european economic area, but also to morocco and the countries of south-east europe, and they constitute a reference at international level. i therefore thank parliament, mr president, for the speed with which it has dealt with this matter. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr degutis, on his work and to thank the chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, mr paolo costa, and all the members of that committee, because, i do not hesitate to say, parliament has improved our text.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, mr degutis, i would like to thank you, as rapporteur, and all the other colleagues for your cooperation. i am convinced that, following the vote in committee, we have produced a balanced and practical report on the operation of air transport services. the commission has already put forward a well-thought-out and well-targeted proposal in this case. i would also like to thank the commission for its reply. i am satisfied with the outcome of the vote in committee, so i will just deal with the transparency requirements in the indication of air fares. i have been very much in favour of transparency from the outset, without any additional bureaucracy, and of involving all stakeholders in an equal and fair way. the air fares advertised should clearly indicate what fees, charges and taxes are included and where they are paid. airline ticket prices should be clear and transparent to the consumer. this is particularly true of advertisements on internet sites with airfares. however, there is still disagreement about how and to what extent. amendment no 48 requires that the information and fees be listed and grouped into four categories: the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement signed with ams. now, air traffic control charges cannot be clearly stated in advance. i therefore propose that the commission should take a decision on the matter. despite this change, the compromise reached fully meets the requirement of transparency, taking into account the interests of passengers, but also of airlines. i cannot therefore support the new amendments nos 54 and 55 tabled by the rapporteur for our group.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we welcome the commission's proposal and, of course, the rapporteur's report, because both contribute to completing the internal european aviation market and raising the level of safety. i would like to refer to four points and emphasize them. firstly, the price transparency scheme is a clear victory for consumers. in future it will no longer be possible to lure citizens with false offers. all fares shall be presented in full and in detail, irrespective of the distribution channel. of course, the prices for air safety services are set on a flat-rate basis. the prices must be comprehensible. but there's no need to argue about that. overall, this will provide clarity for passengers and strengthen competition. secondly, with regard to wet lease contracts, we are creating a balanced system which takes account of the needs of airlines when seasonal fluctuations or exceptional needs arise and they are dependent on such a model. on the other hand, it is becoming clear that we cannot tolerate a breakdown in european safety and social standards. thirdly, as in many reports on aviation legislation, our report contains a number of amendments to the social legislation for workers. the commission is urged to finally put forward a proposal to fill the gap left by the services directive, which we cannot fill in this regulation. fourthly, the new single-stage traffic allocation system is simpler and shorter than anything that has been used before. this is also a good decision for the future, allowing for a more flexible response to infrastructure capacity bottlenecks.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to refer to three aspects: the consolidation of the third aviation package is crucial in terms of transparency of air fares, not only in terms of avoiding any unrealistic offers of incentives, but also in terms of whether the security charges levied on passengers in a flat-rate form are actually covered by the cost of security measures. i have a feeling that with some security fees, the airports are making extra money here. it is essential for the transparency of costs that security charges actually correspond to the costs required for security measures. secondly, i would like to comment on the competition between airports in two ways. i would ask you to give me one or two examples of the extent to which the guidelines on permissible (or inadmissible) aid for regional airports in the community which you have drawn up are actually applied. i think there are a great many regional airports which are maintained only by subsidies and which will never be able to sustain themselves economically. in these cases your guidelines should actually lead to an end to the subsidy. thirdly, with this consolidation of the third aviation package we are changing the definition of an airport system a little bit. i would ask you, commissioner, to do something closer here too. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the cci and ryanair on the basis of the 2005 aviation guidelines was concluded on the basis of the 2005 aviation guidelines. you should not allow such rampant recognition of airport systems.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the speakers and welcome most of the amendments. the amendments provide useful clarification on a number of points, particularly concerning the economic and financial monitoring of airlines and the leasing of aircraft. i fully support the proposed progress on the main place of establishment to ensure effective control over airlines which are the responsibility of a national authority. the commission also shares your proposals on the conditions for granting and withdrawing licences, although we cannot accept that this measure can be taken on the basis of mere suspicion. the simplifications introduced in respect of public service obligations and airport coordination will allow for more flexible and efficient implementation of the measures. the commission has no problem supporting most of the amendments, but i will make a few reservations. i can understand and support the need to find solutions for passengers who are abandoned in an airline bankruptcy. mrs ayala has alluded to it. it is precisely these situations that have led to this update of the regulations, which is aimed at strengthening the conditions for granting licences and the economic and financial control of airlines. but i cannot accept at this stage a new obligation whose feasibility and economic and financial significance have not yet been analysed. i think that we should therefore refer to the need to provide for conditions for reimbursement and repatriation, without, however, deciding right now on a solution whose real impact we do not yet know. second reservation on the social dimension. it is very important that the national authorities apply the appropriate national and european legislation correctly. it is good to remind member states of these obligations, laid down in the treaty and national legislation, but this sectoral regulation does not seem to be the most appropriate one to deal with this issue. we must look deeper into the subject to better understand all its dimensions and to define the real needs which require a response at community level. i therefore think that the rapporteur's proposal to refer to the obligations of the member states in a recital is correct. i also want to answer, of course, those of you who have asked me about the forthcoming proposal. yes, the commission is conducting a study on the effects of the internal aviation market on employment and working conditions. this study, which will be completed by the end of 2007, will feed our thinking and will help us to determine what practical steps we can take. as mr jarzembowski has said, the commission is hesitant about imposing too stringent obligations on the distribution of traffic between airports. it is legitimate to require connection times to be reasonable and efficient. but is it not too much to impose a fixed time and an obligation to connect airports? i come now to the problem of prices. the provisions on price transparency and full passenger information are necessary, but they must be practical and understandable. your rapporteur is right to want to cover all flights departing from an airport in the european community. however, the extension of this obligation to community companies only in third countries raises serious legal and commercial difficulties. i would like to answer the question of security costs. it is true that the commission is in favour of the cost of security and the share of the ticket price which this entails being known. and secondly, it is important that the various fees, charges, taxes and surcharges are clearly presented. however, while it is true that this regulation is intended to ensure passenger information, we cannot use it to determine the use, the characteristics of each load, each tax; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of airport charges. mrs jeggle, i agree with you on the subject of advertising on the internet, but amendment no 48 seems very complicated to us. it really needs to be clear and concrete. i also want to answer mr stockmann and mr kohliček on the question of wet leasing. some flexibility should be allowed to meet exceptional needs while setting strict conditions for safety and periodicity. i am in favour of a system which reconciles the requirements of safety with the need to use the crew for hire on an exceptional basis and for a limited period. finally, for reasons of fair competition with third countries, i consider it justified to compensate for the deletion of article 23 on price leadership by the possibility of applying restrictions, as long as a third country with which an agreement has been signed does not recognise the same rights. this is a principle of common sense which must help us in negotiations with third countries. and i thank parliament for supporting the commission's approach to relations with third countries, which must be conducted in a coordinated manner. and here i shall need the support of parliament again, mr president, for the next steps. i don't claim to have answered all the questions. i repeat very simply, the work of parliament has improved our text. it is with great satisfaction, mr degutis, that i thank parliament for its work. and the questions you've raised are very sensible. i have noted that some of them do not necessarily need to be answered in this text. on the social side, i said that we were working on it and that by the end of the year i would have a clearer picture of it and could make a proposal. mr president, i thought it necessary to give these answers in some detail in order to conclude a high-quality debate. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept the following amendments: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, 14, 18, 19, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 34, 37, 38, 39, 43, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55 and 56. the commission can accept in principle the following amendments: 1, 8, 10, 12, 20, 23, 31, 32, 36, 44 and 49. the commission can accept in part the following amendments: 33, 45 and 47. the commission cannot accept the following amendments: 2, 15, 16, 17, 25, 35, 40, 41, 42, 46, 48, 50, 57, 58, 59, 60 and 61.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be here to take part in this debate on european transport policy. i would like to commend the quality of mrs barsi-pataky's work, which, by the conciseness of the messages, sent a strong political signal. you have just said, mrs barsi-pataky, that a transport policy must be able to renew itself constantly in order to adapt, and you have stressed the importance of making this growth in transport sustainable. i welcome the accuracy of your report and its relevance to the mid-term review of the white paper. you welcomed the realistic approach of the commission's communication; the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide the union with a comprehensive and coherent policy framework for the development of the union's energy sector. these objectives relate to the four pillars of our approach: sustainable mobility, safe mobility, innovative mobility and the international dimension. you have also supported the concept of commodity and indeed, to succeed in modal shift, we must reduce the negative impacts of all modes of transport to ensure the efficiency and environmental performance of each mode of transport. the promotion of intelligent transport and logistics systems, urban mobility policies and the development of intelligent pricing systems are all ways of contributing to this without jeopardising the mobility needed for growth. i now turn to the next deadlines in this line. the green paper on urban transport, which you stressed as important. the action plan on logistics which i intend to submit to you shortly will include actions to remove administrative, operational and functional barriers: stimulate training and the exchange of best practice, promote standardisation across modes. a communication on port policy is planned for autumn, in which, among other things, aspects of the integration of port infrastructure into the supply chain will be assessed. the next appointment of a european coordinator for motorways of the sea and another european coordinator for inland waterways, and we will consolidate the institutional framework for inland navigation by harmonizing pilot certificates and setting up an innovation fund in this sector. secondly, communication on a freight-oriented rail network in europe. the second is infrastructure pricing. as you requested when the new eurovignette directive was adopted, the commission will present in 2008 a methodology for the internalisation of external costs. that is a good agenda, mrs barsi-pataky, and it corresponds very much to your recommendations. i would like to add a few comments on certain passages in your report, starting by pointing out that the commission is pursuing a rigorous policy of prosecuting infringements, which is beginning to bear fruit. on another note, i understand that international negotiations are a sensitive subject for parliament. the commission is responsible for negotiating international agreements, but it will keep the european parliament regularly informed of the progress of the negotiations. i also take note of your request for a report on the directive on the interoperability of electronic road toll systems and we will, as the directive requires, present a report for 2009. the commission is currently assessing the impact of the european modular system. despite the benefits and increased efficiency in some cases, this option remains controversial. finally, the commission fully supports the development of biofuels by establishing european standards for this type of fuel. the aim is to facilitate the achievement of the european union's minimum target of 10% biofuels in total fuel consumption by 2020. i will now listen carefully to your comments and thank parliament and the commission once again for their kindness in providing informed opinions on this mid-term review of the white paper.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs barsi-pataky on her report and thank her for her work and especially for her willingness to compromise. it has succeeded in giving an outlook on the priorities of future european transport policy in a very short but precise and far-sighted report. professionals - especially those who can read between the lines - will appreciate this. but our citizens will miss the detailed, tangible examples and the concrete proposals. the mid-term review of the european commission's 2001 white paper on transport shows that there is a great need to catch up. this applies not only to safety aspects but also to many other areas such as environmental compatibility, investment activity keyword tens implementation and logistics. mrs barsi-pataky urges the right steps, in particular by supporting a co-modal network of transport modes, in which each mode develops its strengths in order to provide goods transport services for the common good. i am a little bit lacking in the demands for an appropriate community framework for co-modality in tourism, that is, in the mobility of european citizens. in public and private long-distance passenger transport, too, we need co-modal approaches to meet the ever-growing mobility needs. i very much welcome the link between the transport problems to be solved and the development of intelligent transport systems and innovative technical solutions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals. these include strict regulations for longliners up to 44 tonnes and safety management for transport infrastructure.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. europe is sinking into traffic jams, and the trend is still rising. that has to change! nevertheless, transport plays a key role in our economy. if our transport policy is bad, the economy suffers too, because it is of course dependent on the transport sector. it is therefore important that we do not pursue our transport policy in isolation from other policies. we can and must put in place many important regulations, such as harmonization, at european level, but we must not forget to ensure that policies at community level are only taken up if they offer clear added value. this includes continuously reviewing all the arrangements in the eu transport policy for their necessity. existing measures need to be evaluated regularly in order to be able to react early if there is any misuse. overregulation is bad for the transport market. we are making an important contribution to mobility and environmental protection by substantially promoting the relatively environmentally friendly modes of transport, rail and inland waterway transport, which have unfortunately always been neglected. we must also bring the member states to this. there is still huge untapped potential. this is a european task. the question of whether the european commission should intervene in inner-city transport is not yet clear. are we responsible for this? does this not violate the principle of subsidiarity? can europe dictate to our cities how they should organise themselves internally? the european commission must not exploit the current climate debate, which is somewhat hysterical, to construct its own competences. if we want to improve the transport situation and thus the environmental quality in cities in a sustainable way, we must take people into europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. finally, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs barsi-pataky, for her very good and intensive work on this subject and for her constant willingness to talk.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to say to mrs satu hassi, very simply but very frankly, that i am surprised by her judgments, as it is true that we are totally committed to sustainable mobility. i am surprised, madam, that you think we are forgetting the polluter pays principle. i believe that i have made a courageous commitment with mr dimas to share the greenhouse gas emission allowances with aviation. we are following a political line and i am very surprised at your judgments which, if you will allow me, seem a little excessive. i would also like to take this opportunity to say to mr kusstatscher that i find it difficult to understand him: it is quite obvious that when we build infrastructure for high-speed trains, we free up conventional freight routes. it is not by chance that i announced earlier that there would be a communication on railway lines for freight. mrs. sommer, you'll allow me to say also that i'm not looking for skills. i am, however, taking account of the expectations of the citizens and the fact that if you want railways to take their full place in europe, you must ensure interoperability. if you want a sustainable development policy, there comes a time when you can only do it by coordinating and harmonizing at european level. i am not going to say that i am not going to be critical of the commissioner, but i am going to say that i am not going to be critical of the commissioner, because i am not going to be critical of the commissioner. i now come to the few remarks i wanted to make. the commission has already started to remove obstacles to train movements: simplification of railway vehicle certification, interoperability and railway safety, the third railway package. i thank your committee on transport for working in this area to reach an agreement. in the aviation sector we have two regulations on the interoperability of european traffic management systems. in 2007, we adopted an 'airports package' which focuses on the role of airports in the competitiveness of the internal aviation market and, in terms of infrastructure, we have a new ten regulation. but president costa is right when he says that we really need to redouble our efforts to coordinate funding because - as mrs ayala and others have pointed out - we are faced with a budget that is too limited to be able to really undertake the major infrastructure works that will enable sustainable mobility. you are quite right and i thank parliament for emphatically pointing this out. mr koch spoke of the convenience of tourism, and he is right. the passengers must also benefit from the convenience of the facilities. as regards infrastructure, as i have just said, we will try to mobilise all the resources available and develop public-private partnerships with the involvement of the european investment bank. i should like to say a few words about the social aspects of transport. in april, new social rules for professional road transport came into force and we tabled three proposals for regulations to modernise access to the road haulage profession and the road transport market. as regards passenger rights, we have, thanks to parliament, begun to introduce the rights of persons with reduced mobility in all modes of transport, in particular bus and sea transport. i will admit, knowing the sensitivity of parliament to this matter, that it is now necessary to make these rights really effective. as regards safety, i would like to stress once again the priority given to road safety in our action, as evidenced by the first european road safety day. we have also simplified the rules on the transport of dangerous goods and we have our three agencies for air, sea and rail safety, which are not idle. we shall be dealing with safety in the autumn in the conciliation on common rules in the air transport sector. as regards the innovation aspect, which mrs barsi-pataky rightly emphasized, this is a major problem. transport must benefit from all new technologies. this will be the case with sesar for air traffic. this is the case with ertms to equip new railway lines and then, of course, it will be the case with energy saving and green propulsion to ensure the sustainability of road mobility. all this will be the subject of an energy efficiency action plan and will be part of the european energy strategy defined by the european council. i shall not go into the international dimension. we must of course continue this policy which has enabled us to sign an open sky agreement with the united states and other countries. we will now continue all these efforts. mr president, i shall stop there, because of course all this deserves much more extensive developments. i thank parliament and particularly mrs barsi-pataky, because i believe that we are committed to a transport policy which takes account of the requirements of the future, which is not at all looking to the past but to the future, with this dual objective: to enable mobility as required by the lisbon objectives and, at the same time, to ensure that this mobility remains compatible with the imperatives of environmental protection and the fight against global warming. it's a very difficult battle. i am very grateful to parliament for its support and i personally feel very committed to this effort for sustainable mobility.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am pleased to be able to put this request on behalf of the committee on international trade. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner mandelson and his services very warmly because the flow of information to our committee on the various bilateral and interregional external trade negotiations has improved very much. the committee hopes that we can continue to find such a form of cooperation in the future when, as in the case of china, international negotiations of partnership and cooperation agreements are involved, in which trade is an important aspect. our trade relations with the people's republic of china are of great mutual importance. last year china overtook the united states and has since become the largest exporter to the european union. at the same time, the european union's trade deficit with china rose to eur 128 billion. the trade committee has been concerned for some time with china's growing role in the international trading system. in 2005, our committee chose this as the subject of an own-initiative report - the first ever report to refer to a single trading partner. another report dealt with the impact of the expiry of the quota regime on the chinese textile and clothing industry. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. neither in the european union nor in the developing countries has the uncertainty of the textile and clothing industry about the impact of market opening on china been overcome. in fact, this uncertainty is becoming even greater with the impending expiry of the 2005 memorandum of understanding. this is an area where a clear answer to the market economy status question is important for the investigation of dumping complaints. the lucas report asked about europe's strategy for optimising value chains and increasing the production of high-tech goods. the belief that the european union can provide smarter solutions in the long term and in the long term and that it can drive scientific and technological progress is questionable given the enormous number of highly qualified graduates from chinese universities. of course we see and welcome the reduction in poverty brought about by china's rapid rise over the past twenty years. at the same time, however, we have a legitimate expectation that china, as a wto member, will abide by the rules it has accepted upon accession. this includes the provisions on intellectual property and the principle of non-discrimination between imported goods. we cannot ignore the environmental and social consequences of china's growth. we should be prepared to support those on the ground who are dealing with this problem. commissioner mandelson, if i read this correctly, you said at a trade union conference in the uk last month: whether in multilateral or bilateral trade talks, we are aiming for fair environmental and social standards. i can only hope that this will apply to large trading partners as well, and not just to small ones. we therefore expect the partnership and cooperation agreement you are currently negotiating with china to be comprehensive in this respect, to take account of the interests of all concerned and not to be limited to market access. commissioner, perhaps it would be possible to illustrate to what extent this is reflected in the eu's position in the negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement with china, on the one hand, and how this is taken up by the chinese side, on the other. another question concerns the relationship between multilateral and bilateral negotiations in general. the european union's trade strategy describes bilateral and interregional trade relations as country-specific, complementary to multilateral efforts within the wto. the negotiations within the wto have now come to a standstill. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, i would like to ask you whether it is really necessary, long before an agreement is foreseeable in the multilateral framework, to negotiate wto plus single agreements with contents that are not shared by a large number of developing countries. would not this type of approach make the conclusion of a multilateral agreement - and the committee has clearly expressed its preference for it - even more complicated than it already is?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not first of all, i would like to express our european solidarity with the victims of the floods in china. i think that is appropriate at this point. the question raised by mr markov - and for which i would like to thank him on behalf of the committee on international trade - is an extremely important one. the eu on the one hand and china on the other - these are two of the oldest cultures in the world. it is the largest trading bloc and the fastest growing economy in human history. it is therefore a question that is not within the scope of the wto. it is a matter which requires a bilateral approach and a bilateral treaty. there are a lot of interests at stake on both sides. we should not let the united states push us to do this. i would like to congratulate commissioner mandelson on not having embarked on a common strategy against china to deal with the issue of product piracy before the wto. both sides china and the eu have interests, but also tools anti-dumping, anti-subsidy to protect, but also to abuse, intellectual property. it depends on how we interact with each other, how we use these tools. the commissioner said that reciprocity is crucial, and i agree with him. we europeans benefit from the fact that the chinese have taken over our continental eu patent law one by one. that's good. but it is not enough to have this right, this right must be enforceable, it must be applied. it is also in the chinese's own interest to do so. they know this too, and the chinese company heier, for example, will soon be interested in preserving its own patents. this shows that china needs this strategy. but what do we do in the interim? the aggressive variant is that the chinese will apply for patents similar to ours and close their market. you've already proven you can do this. the former president of the european patent office, pompidou, says that in about four years china will even have overtaken us in the number of patents. i think we should link the patent issue with the eu's climate objectives. yes, with the climate targets! i'll tell you why. china is a win-win culture, a culture that is focused on harmony. so i think we have a chance if we offer them something. china is suffering from enormous environmental problems at the moment. social security is in jeopardy, the government is under pressure because of enormous environmental problems. china has indicated at the ippc conference and also at the g8 summit that it wants to pursue climate goals. but china lacks technology in many areas. here, our offer can be that we support carbon-free coal plants with our technology, that we clearly go to the chinese, but in return demand that our patent rights be respected. commissioner, you are on the right track! thank you very much for the information you have given us here.
the commission has already done so. we share your view that, particularly in the face of the eu's high trade deficit with china, the european union must be given significantly better market access opportunities, that the distortions caused by chinese state aid must be reduced and that the chinese government must also enforce the wto-compliant protection of intellectual property in the provinces. but we still have to work together to convince them that these are not just demands we are making on china, but that the opportunities for fair market access are in china's interest. we have to make it clear to china that if they want to take their environment to the forefront, if they want to organize an efficient energy supply - there is enough money on the chinese side, that is not the problem - then they really have to open up their public procurement market for our products. then we can sell our products there in a reasonable exchange, and china can buy modern coal-fired power plants and sewage plants etc. from us and use our technology. china needs nothing given, it has enough capital, it is the country with the largest currency reserves in the world. china is now setting up a fund to invest its money everywhere. we must tell the chinese government to invest in their own country. do something for the environment and energy security, for the safety of the coal mines! if we can do that, we can also improve trade relations in the long term. of course it is so - you have pointed out - that these treaties contain a human rights clause, that we have been having a human rights dialogue with china for years; we must also insist on this. as a colleague said earlier, no one wants china to fully respect all human rights overnight. but we need to make significant progress! the people's republic of china has long since signed the international covenant on civil and political rights, but it has not ratified it and it has not implemented it. and then we have to grab them and say: you signed this yourself, you want to respect human rights, now do it!
it is a great pleasure to welcome the president of the european council, the prime minister of portugal, josé sócrates, to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i would also like to extend a warm welcome to the president of the commission, mr josé manuel durão barroso. (applause from the centre) as you can all see from the name, we have a special constellation. portugal is the centre of the european union. it is a great pleasure to invite the president of the european council, prime minister josé sócrates, to speak.
acting president of the council. mr president (my dear hans-gert pöttering), mr president of the european commission (my dear josé manuel durão barroso), ladies and gentlemen, as we begin the six-month portuguese presidency, before the legitimate representatives of the european citizens, i would like to reaffirm the guiding principle of this presidency: building a stronger europe for a better world! to that end, we have made a clear commitment: we shall do everything we can to overcome the period of doubt and uncertainty about the future direction of the european project. and we would like to ask all of you here, in the seat of european democracy, to join us in this common goal! it is well known that portugal was not a founding member of the european communities. but when we restored democracy in our country in 1974, after 48 years of authoritarian rule, our main objective was precisely to join the then european communities. we made that a reality in 1986. as we assume the presidency of the council of ministers of the union for the third time, i wish to reaffirm before you the determination and commitment of the portuguese government to defend and further the values of peace, freedom, solidarity and prosperity which inspired the founding fathers in 1957. these are the values which we all, together, now as 27 member states and almost 500 million citizens, reaffirmed in berlin last march. i am confident, ladies and gentlemen, that this semester will mark the end of the deadlock and blockage that have persisted for too long in the european project. the example of the european integration project is motivating many peoples and many countries in various parts of the world who have difficulty understanding our hesitations and who are the first to call for a more active role for the european union. i have always considered and continue to consider the european project as one of the most critical and generous political projects of our time. the construction of europe is important for the european economy, for the promotion of european values and for european citizens. but the construction of europe is equally important to meet global challenges, to seize the opportunities of these changing times and to build a more stable, fairer and more developed world. it is not only the peoples of europe who need a strong europe. it is the world that needs a europe with a more present voice. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think you will agree with me that the success of a presidency always depends on the clarity of its programme. we have clearly identified the priorities for the next six months: the reform of the treaties, an agenda for the modernisation of european economies and societies and the strengthening of europe's role in the world. our main challenge is, of course, to resume the process of reforming the treaties on the basis of the mandate adopted at the last european council. i am pleased to underline and welcome the strategy and negotiation of german chancellor angela merkel, which we have always supported over the last six months. i would also like to thank parliament for its clear position in the resolution it voted on the basis of the barón crespo-brok report, in favour of reaching an agreement between the member states which preserves the essence of the ambition of the constitutional treaty and is able to accommodate the signals emanating from the french and dutch referendums. the progress made at the last european council was also made possible by the european parliament's initiative, which has always been able to define a strong, coherent and constructive position on this matter, never resigning itself to the impasse that existed at the time. the agreement reached at the european council on 21 and 22 june gave portugal a clear and precise mandate, which it has always considered necessary. we are now in a position to move forward. but i would like to stress to parliament that i have no doubt about one thing: the decisive moment came in october 2006 when the heads of government of the three countries that would make up the trio of presidencies - germany, portugal and slovenia - agreed to include in their joint programme the resolution of the institutional impasse as a first priority. at that time, in october 2006, few believed that such a goal was possible. the truth is that this goal is now within our reach. we therefore set out on this task with confidence. it is up to us to complete this task: to transform the mandate into a new treaty. i know that we have a difficult and demanding negotiating and conciliation task ahead of us. i am naturally prepared for the problems that always arise, especially in the final stages of the negotiating process. but i know we can do it. one thing is clear to me, our mandate is not to change the mandate, our mandate is to turn this mandate into a treaty. this mandate is, of course, clear as regards what should be abandoned in the previous constitutional treaty, what should be included in the reform treaty and what should be added in innovative terms to the treaty of nice. and the best thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to take advantage of the political momentum, to move fast. that is why i have decided to open the intergovernmental conference on 23 july next, on the sidelines of the general affairs and external relations council of the european union. on the same day, 23 december, we will distribute a draft treaty drawn up on the basis of the detailed instructions contained in the mandate. we will also be convening meetings of legal experts later this week to analyse the text and identify any difficulties. the informal meeting of foreign ministers on 7 and 8 september will serve to take stock of the state of play. we intend to work actively to make it possible to reach agreement on the treaty at the informal european council in lisbon on 18 and 19 october. that is our aim and i think everyone will agree with me that this timetable is the one which best corresponds to the spirit and will of all the european institutions and is also the one which best serves the interests of the union. i am counting on the european parliament to achieve this. it is for this reason that i have advocated that the european parliament should be represented at the intergovernmental conference by three representatives, rather than two, as was the case before, thus ensuring greater representation of this house. and for that very reason i shall also propose, whenever the intergovernmental conference meets at the level of heads of state or government, that the european parliament be represented by its president. i know that i can count on the contribution of all the institutions. i thank the european commission and the european central bank for their prompt opinions. and i thank the european parliament for the effort it has made to ensure that its opinion can also be adopted today, thus completing the conditions for the opening of the intergovernmental conference later this month. i also count on the will and commitment of all the member states. this is a moment of convergence in which all the institutions are coming together so that a swift decision on the treaty can be a clear sign of europe's confidence and determination to move forward with its union project. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the treaties is only part of the tasks facing the union in the next six months, and i would be grateful if i could take a few minutes to speak to you about other internal union matters of the utmost importance. beyond institutional issues, european citizens demand answers to questions that directly concern them in their daily lives and where they recognise that europe has to produce concrete results that make a difference and contribute to improving their living conditions. and one point that i think is beyond doubt is that europe has to invest more in a modernization agenda. just over seven years ago, the then prime minister of portugal, antónio guterres, came to this house to present the lisbon strategy, which has been the roadmap for the modernisation of the european economy and society. it is therefore with particular pleasure that i can tell you that the 'lisbon strategy' will once again be at the centre of our concerns. the strategy set out in 2000 to strengthen competitiveness with social cohesion, by focusing on knowledge and innovation, remains on track and enjoys the support of the main european political forces. what we are going to do is to actively contribute to a new round of the lisbon agenda which will be adopted in the spring of 2008 during the slovenian presidency. but we will prepare for this new cycle by maintaining the balance between the three components of that agenda, the economic component, the social component and the environmental component. the review of the internal market will allow emphasis to be placed on the competitiveness of enterprises, the opening up of markets and the elimination of context costs, as well as the role that cultural industries can play in terms of job creation, economic growth and innovation. the next six months will also be particularly important for energy and environmental policy options, and in this respect europe can have only one objective: to maintain its leadership in the environmental field and, in particular, in the fight against climate change. we will immediately pursue the objectives of promoting the debate on a technological action plan for energy and the environment and will stress the role of biofuels, particularly in the context of the relationship resulting from the first summit between the european union and brazil. we want to give the social dimension of the 'lisbon strategy' the visibility and relevance it deserves. ten years after the launch of the 'european employment strategy', we believe it is essential to promote debate on the best ways of coordinating employment policies in order to foster the creation of sustainable jobs in a globally competitive environment. this line of action of the portuguese presidency will be closely linked to the qualification of human resources, the reconciliation of work and family life, and the fight against poverty and exclusion. the european social model, in its acknowledged diversity, requires joint reflection on the sustainability of pension systems and the identification of the necessary reforms in labour markets and in systems of protection against social risks. in this context, the debate on 'flexicurity' should be guided by the search for integrated and balanced solutions, a practical translation into general principles common at european level that takes into account the diversity of social realities in the different member states of the union. ladies and gentlemen, for the portuguese presidency, one of the structural values of the european project is based on the binomial freedom and security. in this context, strengthening police and judicial cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crime will be a priority for the presidency. terrorism remains one of the greatest threats to international peace and security. but democracies are not afraid of terrorism and know how to stand firm in the face of this threat. if there is a good example of this firmness, it was given last week by the british government, to whom i would like to express the solidarity of all the countries of the union. the fight against terrorism must therefore remain a common objective for all member states. because only european cooperation can prevent, protect and prosecute terrorism. the portuguese presidency will work towards the implementation of the ongoing initiatives under the eu counter-terrorism strategy, the implementation of the counter-terrorism action plan and the continuation of the implementation of the strategy against radicalisation and the recruitment of terrorists, which will be reviewed over the next six months. we therefore consider it urgent to replace mr de vries and to define the means and mandate which will enable him to carry out his task effectively. ladies and gentlemen, there is no freedom without security. this is the lesson of history. that is why the union's security policy is also essential to preserve the open and tolerant nature of european societies. i am therefore proud to say that it was portugal that proposed, and it was also a portuguese company that conceived, the technological solution (sis-one4all) so that the new member states could fully join the schengen area and so that the borders with these countries could disappear at the end of the portuguese presidency. we shall thus be satisfying one of the greatest aspirations of these citizens: the free movement of persons within the union. i would also like to say a word about immigration policy. we shall pay particular attention to this during our presidency. europe is now a place of welcome for millions of immigrants who live here, work here, educate their children here and whose contribution is indispensable to european economic growth. we must therefore build a european immigration policy based on the fight against illegal immigration, but also on a policy of inclusion and integration of legal immigrants and effective cooperation with the countries of origin, which is capable of regulating migration flows to mutual benefit. only a policy that acts on the origin and the destination, on the causes and the effects, will be able to cope with the scale of the phenomenon and be in harmony with our values and our responsibilities. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current international situation in turn creates special responsibilities for the european union and i would now like to tell you about the european union's foreign policy agenda under the portuguese presidency. european citizens are unequivocal in their demand for active international leadership, based on the values of international law, mutual respect, dialogue and concertation. the expectations of the international community are also clear: the union must be committed and consistently involved in major international issues. the second half of 2007 saw the convergence of key decisions on sensitive issues on the global agenda - the future of kosovo, the nuclear issue in iran, the humanitarian crisis in darfur - with a series of particularly relevant bilateral summits: india, china, russia and ukraine. the relationship with the united states, within the framework defined by the washington summit under the german presidency, will be closely monitored, as the strategic importance of the transatlantic relationship requires and requires. we will in all cases assume the responsibilities of the presidency, in close coordination with the high representative for foreign affairs, javier solana, and the european commission. but i would like to highlight three initiatives to which we are particularly attached and which deserve special mention: the summit with brazil, which has already taken place, the second summit with africa and, finally, the euro-mediterranean meetings. in this first week of the presidency we have already held the summit with brazil, with a view to taking our relations to a higher level of mutual knowledge and close cooperation at all levels. this initiative is particularly dear to us portuguese, who share the language and much of our culture and history with brazil. we want to create the political conditions so that, like the other emerging economic powers, a formal relationship can be institutionalized for the future, mutually beneficial for europe and brazil, thus also contributing to the deepening of the more general relationship we want with all of latin america. closer relations with brazil will also bring concrete results in responding to global challenges. the summit last week with president lula da silva also allowed a window of opportunity to remain open which must now be exploited in the doha round negotiations, and we will do everything we can to support the european commission's action in this context. i am of the opinion that the doha round negotiations represent a relevant element in the regulation of globalisation and that their conclusion will be very positive and that they should continue to be a priority for the european institutions. the euromed ministerial meetings, in turn, are part of a rounded cooperation framework, the so-called barcelona process and the new neighbourhood policy, but they underline the value we attach to the relaunching of a thorough political debate with our partners on the southern shore of the mediterranean. we share common concerns and are faced with development and social cohesion challenges which underline the growing interdependence of the two shores of the mediterranean and we are convinced that we can contribute to overcoming some of the blockages in key areas such as the management of migration flows and the contribution that diasporas can make to the development of the countries of origin, with the support and commitment of european countries and the relevant international institutions. finally, we are proposing to hold the second european union-africa summit, after having been the basis for the previous one in cairo in 2000, which was held, as you will recall, under the portuguese presidency. without ignoring some of the difficulties that will have to be overcome, it is our conviction that nothing can justify the fact that for more than seven years there have been no such meetings at the highest level when the relationship between two continents is at stake, which are so close from a historical point of view and so interdependent in today's world. portugal is particularly well placed to assume this responsibility and is counting strongly on the contribution of the african union and all european and african countries to make this summit a moment of relaunching dialogue and cooperation on issues of greatest common interest. we therefore accept the need to define a new strategic partnership between the european union and africa, with a view to the objectives of sustainable development, peace-keeping, the fight against endemic diseases and a balanced partnership for the management of migration flows in a mutually beneficial way. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is our agenda, which i have just briefly described to you. i am aware that we are assuming the presidency at a delicate moment in the international situation and that we are ambitious in defining our own objectives. we know that presidencies alone do not solve all the problems that arise, but we also know that they can make a difference if they set clear objectives, are humble in the way they pursue them and are willing to promote the necessary consensus. many european philosophers characterize today's world as being a post-world. post-democratic, post-modern or post-industrial, and so on. a world after. but really what this concept means is just this: we live in a changing world, and it's changing fast, and what we see happening we don't fully understand yet. but in the midst of all the uncertainties and unknowns, one thing we know for sure: in a changing world the worst mistake is to stand still. this is the mistake europe cannot and must not make - the mistake of standing still. that, ladies and gentlemen, is our firm purpose: to ensure that europe does not stand still, to advance the european project in the service of a better world. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president of the european council! we thank you very much for your keynote speech. the applause was a reflection of the great support you have received here in the european parliament. we thank you above all for your clear statement that the european parliament will be represented at all levels of the intergovernmental conference. the commission has always supported this, and this is also the precondition for the european parliament to give its consent to the setting up of an intergovernmental conference. the european parliament also has particular expectations of cooperation with the general secretariat of the council. i now ask the president of the commission, mr josé manuel durão barroso, to speak to us.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not mr president of the council! quite exactly one year ago, on 1 july last year, there was an interesting football match which portugal won in extra time by a penalty shoot-out. a dramatic play. and the portuguese, with great nerve, have turned every penny. the ball is on the penalty spot. you have said all there is to say about the intergovernmental conference. you need to turn the penalty meter now. i have the impression, after the speech you gave this morning, that you have the same nervous strength as the portuguese national team. so if you can turn the penalty, you'll get the trophy in october! (applause from the centre) we are realists, mr prime minister sócrates! what has now been negotiated in the mandate is not all that we would have wished for. but we note that this was not the only part of the negotiations. but i say quite clearly: there is nothing less! you must make it clear to all those attending this igc: there can be no turning back from what has been achieved. i would like to make a comment to my colleague, mr joseph daul. i have heard that the epp-ed group takes this view, and i hope that all the epp-ed group's members - right up to the committee chairmen of your group - take this view. (applause from the centre) the higher the committee, the more uncertain my assessment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. what would it mean if we went back? we would then be back in the crisis situation we have just overcome. and when we are in a crisis, mr president-in-office, then the very objectives you have described are again unattainable. how can we achieve a coherent lisbon strategy in a europe of different speeds? it is a mutually exclusive relationship. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. three years ago, the decision was taken to revive the lisbon strategy. that was three years ago, and we haven't made much progress. the fact that you, as the council presidency, say that we are going to sit down now and want to start this up again and intensify it is correct. but above all, it must be intensified for two reasons: you are right when you say we want to bet on qualification. if we want to become the most competitive knowledge-based continent, then we must rely on qualifications. what we are asking for is that the lisbon strategy should bring one thing above all else: social security. if we have more economic growth - and we do, we have more jobs, the reforms are working, and in my country, thanks to the gerhard schröder government, they are working now - if we have more jobs, then we need one thing above all: that growth is sustainable and that it brings lasting social security. otherwise the lisbon strategy will be useless. if we are looking for a subject - mr president of the council, you have said it correctly - which forces us to act together, all 27, and where we have enormous popular support, it is climate protection. the live earth concerts last weekend were a remarkable demonstration of the enthusiasm with which young people are willing to take up an idea. let's use that enthusiasm. these young people go to the concert, and when the concert is over, they ask, "what happens now?" bono and herbert grönemeyer cannot provide the solution. we must provide it through concrete actions. but if we deliver, if we also implement the ambitious objectives, then i am quite sure that we have the people of europe behind us, and that is exactly what the european project needs. when i speak of climate protection, mr prime minister, i am grateful to you for your strategy for africa and latin america, because without africa and latin america, we cannot achieve this climate protection. and the bitter thing about africa is that it is the continent that is suffering the most from global warming, even though it is the continent that is contributing the least to global warming. this is very significant for the suffering of africans. and for latin america, i am very grateful to you. the european union's transatlantic relations involve much more than our relationship with the united states of america. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the gulf, and we are therefore in favour of the establishment of a permanent european security council. which countries have suffered the most? argentina, for example, or brazil. the cooperation of our continent with the latin american continent is indispensable. this is an initiative which our group will also take up and support in the autumn, and we are grateful to you for organising this summit. there are people in this house who get nervous when two men from one nation speak in turn. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today we have seen a portuguese president of the council of the left and a former president of the council of the right working together for europe. that's what i think is significant. the idea of overcoming what separates you at home in order to work together in europe for everyone else, this idea of community, of overcoming what separates, is exactly what the european idea is. this is precisely what we need to strengthen europe, because as you rightly said: europe does not need to stand alone, the world needs a united and strong europe! you do that by overcoming the dividing and focusing on the uniting. so good luck with your presidency of the council! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! let me just make a few remarks. i have a few comments because i agree with the remarks made by both the president of the commission and the president of the council on the igc. the task of the igc will be to do as little as possible. it is about fulfilling the mandate of the summit and not about developing new ideas. i can imagine many things that could be added to such a contract. i'm aware that some of the things we had in the convent are missing. but this is the historic moment when what has been agreed must be translated into legally binding texts. we therefore believe that we must support the presidency in this clear commitment to the mandate, to get it done as quickly as possible. i believe that while symbols and many other things - and above all transparency - have been lost, we have more democracy and more efficiency since the convention, which also involved national parliamentarians. the efficiency is better than before, thanks to the extension of majority voting, the rules in foreign and security policy and many other things. it could be better, but it's better than the present. wherever we have majority voting, the european parliament has the right to vote. if this treaty is concluded, the european parliament will have an equal right of co-decision in 90-95% of cases. some things are forgotten: in future, the european council, acting by a majority, will make a proposal to the european parliament on the election of the president of the commission in the light of the results of the european elections and after consulting the european parliament. we have also more citizens' rights, because the citizen has a direct line to the commission through parliament, which gives him a broad legitimacy. this is a very important step forward, also in connection with the charter of fundamental rights. if we are to represent values in the world, we must practice those values in ourselves and become legally bound. this is why the binding effect of the charter of fundamental rights is so crucial for the rights of citizens. the only people who have been duped on this issue are the people of great britain.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on the matter. that's wrong! the council president has shown that the political significance of this intergovernmental conference lies in the full mandate and nothing but the mandate. the political significance lies in the clear will to conclude the negotiations as early as october and in convincing all 27 member states that this is the right way forward at a historic moment for europe. i have no doubt that with the clarity of your programme and your firm political will, you will succeed! my group leader said all you had to do was shoot the ball into the goal from the penalty spot. dear martin, let's not forget that this is not the penalty shoot-out at the end, this is a penalty during the game! and the game continues. there is a full second half, the ratification process. past experience shows that there may still be some problems. it would therefore be right, mr president-in-office, if you now tried to informally convince your colleagues in the council that ratification must be achieved quickly within the next 12 months. it would be good if the netherlands and france, who said no, were the first to ratify. and it would be good, mr president-in-office, if you could persuade the new british prime minister, gordon brown, to ensure that the united kingdom does not become the tail light of the ratification process, but takes the lead. that would be a sign for all europe!
thank you very much, jan marinus wiersma! as regards the question of nurses, i will make a statement before the vote, if you agree, afterwards, when the house is full.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for all the comments made in this debate and for the criticisms made of my speech and the intentions of the presidency. i would like to point out that these remarks and criticisms are of great help to me in my duties as president of the council. but i would also like to say, and i think it is no exaggeration, that from what i have heard in general, the remarks made by the members concerning the tasks of the union for the next six months largely coincide with the programme i have presented to you here. and i am very pleased to see that there is a great deal of political consensus around what we have to do in the next six months. this is of the utmost importance for europe. it was not difficult to identify these priorities, because we all know one simple thing: what europe is waiting for, the european economy, european society and the world, is for europe to solve its institutional crisis once and for all, because for the last two years the idea that we were reflecting on was an idea that was understood by everyone as a situation of institutional crisis and europe's inability to overcome this impasse. if there is a clear signal we must give to the world and to europeans, it is that we will be able to overcome this crisis and this impasse. that is why i am pleased to see in the speeches of all the members the idea that getting a treaty quickly should naturally be the priority. i don't know if it's a penalty, but the truth is, we need to score that point. and as soon as possible. i am also pleased that you are following the presidency's thinking that, in order to obtain a treaty, we must also take advantage of the present political moment, the present political climate, the present political convergence in order to translate the mandate into the treaty as quickly as possible. i am therefore pleased to see that the timetable i have presented here, the idea of moving quickly, also corresponds to a political consensus. in fact, there's no reason why we shouldn't. that is what the european economy expects, as i said, what the other european institutions expect and what the world expects: that we move quickly. the last consensus, the agreement, the compromise we reached is so clear and so precise that, of course, no one expects us to get lost in endless discussions, especially since these discussions are not open. i am therefore pleased to see that there is consensus on the idea that priority should be given to the transfer of the mandate to the treaty. i have, of course, raised the matter of the mandate and said that if there is anything the presidency does not have, it is a mandate to reopen or to change the mandate it has been given. that is of the utmost importance and seems to me to be the basic one as well. no one expects that and i am sure that all the member states present that night and who made that commitment are fully aware of what that would mean in terms of discrediting the institutions and discrediting europe itself. i am therefore sure that no member state and no political leader advocates this possibility, and that they will join me in saying to you all that our duty is to have the mandate and to turn that mandate into a treaty. but i also want to say the obvious: the problem is that this union depends on everyone, and everyone is needed. i know what the job of the presidency is: the only question is whether it is possible to reach an agreement between the 27 and not the 26, 25 or 24. the 27th. that, by the way, is what separates a union from an alliance. we are not an alliance, we are a union, and because we are a union, everyone is indispensable and everyone has to be on board. that is why i say to you that we will do our best to move as quickly as possible and to achieve what we all want - that in october, at the first opportunity, not the last opportunity, but the first opportunity, europe will be able to give a clear signal to europeans and to the world that it has overcome its institutional crisis. i would also like to say a word about the ratification of the treaty. national ratification is a matter for the member states, not a european matter. but at this point, after hearing what i heard, i would like to remind you that nowhere in the world, in liberal democracies, is parliamentary ratification considered to be illegitimate ratification or not living up to the best values of modern democracies. i think that the attempt to devalue parliamentary ratification is an attempt that does not honour representative democracy. i can understand very well why some people support referenda and sometimes support direct democracy. i think that's very positive and i think that referendums and more participatory democracy bring more wealth to democracy. but i have never, ever, in any case, argued that this more direct and participatory democracy can be used against representative democracy. i think that point is wrong and i would like to make it clear. parliaments have the legitimacy to approve treaties and to do so in the name of the people. that is what democratic ideas teach us, and i have lived with these values for so long that i cannot accept to be rid of them, particularly at this time. a second point, ladies and gentlemen, to talk to you about foreign policy. foreign policy will also be one of the priorities of this presidency. and it's going to be a priority because it can't be anything else. if we look at the european union's foreign policy, it is easy to see that it has some gaps. of course what we want is to fill those gaps. and we've already filled one, the brazil gap. the truth is that the european union had summits with china, with india, with russia and it didn't have summits with the other bric, with brazil. i didn't and i should have. because it gives coherence to the policy towards these emerging economic powers and because it is of the utmost importance for the relationship between europe and latin america, just as this strategic relationship is also of the utmost importance for the approach to the issues of global governance. i believe that europe is now in a better position to influence global political issues after having made this strategic partnership with brazil. i have no doubt about one thing: european foreign policy has become richer since we held the summit with brazil. and we shall see, but i very much hope that this summit may have contributed to creating a better climate for political dialogue between europe and brazil so that the doha round and the negotiations for a world trade agreement can proceed. i am very hopeful about this and i am one of those who believe in the advantage for the whole world, for better regulation of globalisation and also for the promotion of more free trade and more development, in particular for the least developed countries of the success of the doha round and of an agreement reached in this context. a word about africa too, to say this: here too a political choice is needed. europe must decide whether it wants to move forward or stay the way it is, and to stay the way it is, we have been here for seven years. something has to be done, and i would also like to remind everyone that we made that choice at least nine months ago. the european council has already decided three times to hold the summit, and in the last three european councils it was stated that this summit should be held this year, during the portuguese presidency. so, our time to think about the summit is over. we're going to the summit. and i would like to tell you this about the africa summit: firstly, i think that europe cannot continue to pay the price of not having a structured, institutional, strategic political dialogue with africa. i think that's a mistake we're paying a price for. we europeans pay a price, but africans pay a price too, and some live worse because they do not have this dialogue with africa. and if anyone in this house thinks about human rights and thinks about hunger, they should also think that holding a summit with africa would go a long way, not only to solving the problems of development and to responding better to the problems of hunger in africa but also to responding better to the problems of governance and human rights in african countries. that's how i see it. now what does not contribute anything to solving the problems is to stay as we are: doing nothing. i don't think that's the right move. and on the subject of africa, i would also like to say to the honourable members that i was saddened to hear the news about the bulgarian nurses. i would also like to point out that we have been following this dossier for a long time and that we have kept it in mind. as you know, portugal is one of the countries with the best relations with the maghreb countries, including libya, and we have been following this matter for a long time, we have been talking to the libyan authorities for a long time. we now have more responsibility for the next six months and we are well aware of the importance of this dossier. we are working on it, and we did so recently, both i and the president of the commission, when we were in accra. we'll do everything we can to make sure this case has a happy ending. there is still an appeal after this decision. as i say, we're following the matter closely and i hope you all understand the diplomatic sensitivity of this matter. our goal is for the dossier to have a happy ending. as you can imagine, political rhetoric doesn't always help, but everyone knows how committed we are to getting this matter resolved. two more remarks, one of them on climate change and the environment, just to say this: i was once the minister of the environment, i was once the president of the council as minister of the environment, and i remember how difficult it was back then, in 2000, to talk about climate change. that difficulty has nothing to do with today. today the situation is absolutely different, and i think everyone has realized today that the operational synthesis between innovation and energy is called climate change. there is a great willingness in different sectors to move quickly to action, but i think, as everyone must agree, that the decisions we took at the last european spring council were absolutely essential to give europe credibility in this area and to give europe the political conditions to lead, to be at the forefront, to give the political answer to this global problem. we'll be following this dossier very closely. i myself, if i have an agenda for this, but i intend to do so, will be present in bali, representing the european union, to make a speech there expressing the will of the european union to lead the post-kyoto framework and the framework for the world's response to climate change. but i also want to make it clear that we have an internal agenda to fulfil and that agenda is the energy technology plan, which we will be pursuing with the commission, and the creation of the european institute of technology, which, with our firm support, will also launch its first kic (knowledge innovation community). and this first initiative is directed precisely, and even symbolically, to the subject of climate change. finally, a word about biofuels: there are no magic answers to all problems, but biofuels are currently the most effective answer to reducing co2 in the transport sector. i have no doubt about that. and if there is a way forward, and if there is a good solution that can contribute to that reduction, i do not think we have the right to set it aside, just because of course it has consequences in other areas which may not be, let us say, the best. i think the balance of biofuels is very positive and it is a balance that should encourage us to go on. finally, the immigration. i wanted to make it clear that the issue of immigration will be one of the most important issues during our presidency. we shall pay close attention to this matter. europe needs to define a clear thinking on immigration. i believe that the only way we can have an immigration policy that is both relevant to the problem and to our values is to define a policy based on three pillars: the first is to combat illegal immigration, to strengthen border security and to combat this crime against human dignity. secondly, we must also strive for an inclusive policy, a humane policy. europe is now a continent that is home to many millions of immigrants who are also waiting for the definition of immigration. thirdly, and as the third pillar, we must have a policy which is coordinated with the countries of origin, so that it is possible to regulate these migratory flows to their mutual benefit. these three pillars must constitute a european policy, but they must be documented, and that is why we will be organising conferences and working with the commission and commissioner frattini over the next six months to ensure that a coherent, comprehensive and responsive european union immigration policy can be structured and publicly announced. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you once again for your comments and say to you in conclusion: we have our plan, we are going into these six months with the confidence, the energy and the will of those political leaders who, throughout their political life, have always believed in the european project. i 've said it many times: i was born in 1957, the year of europe, and was elected to parliament the year after we joined europe. i'm a european politician. and so when i come here, i do so with the greatest honour for anyone who has this opportunity to be able to serve europe in a place like this. we therefore set out with that confidence, the confidence of those who are very familiar with the european project. we have a plan, but a plan is just a plan. naturally, there will be unforeseen circumstances, situations that were not part of the plan, events that will surprise us. and it's a good thing that politics is like that, because if it wasn't, it wouldn't be a matter for politicians, since politicians deal with the unforeseen. but the plan guides our action and if unforeseen and unexpected events arise, here we are, armed with what is important to a politician: the set of values, principles and guidelines that have always guided us in building a stronger europe and in the service of a better world.
- thank you, chairman.
mr president of the council! we trust you! the european parliament is at your side to help you succeed. if you succeed, the european union will succeed. good luck with your presidency.
president of the commission. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to take this opportunity to express my solidarity with the bulgarian nurses and their families and with the palestinian doctor, as we are hearing news that is undoubtedly worrying. we regret these decisions, but i also want to express my confidence that a solution will be found. i would like to assure the bulgarian nurses and their families in particular that the european commission, together with the presidency of the council and the member states, will do everything possible to safeguard the right to life and liberty of these people. mr president, i think that after this debate it has become quite clear that we can say that the european parliament supports the priorities of the portuguese presidency of the council. as mr schulz has said, there is a message of support for the european project coming from the various political and ideological areas. the european project cannot be seen as the property of one or another political and ideological sector. it must unite political forces which share the common objective of making europe stronger, a europe which responds to the aspirations of its citizens. that's what we noticed here today. we very much agree with your analysis of the need to resolve the institutional question. the fact is that the failure to resolve the institutional question has cast a shadow of doubt, scepticism, negativity and sometimes even cynicism on everything that europe has done. europe has not been blocked. in recent years, and cooperation between the different institutions has been important in this respect, we have been able to overcome difficult issues, we have approved a budget for the next seven years, we have reached a difficult consensus on a very divisive issue, the services directive, we have been able to approve at the european council in march the most ambitious package of measures to date on combating climate change, the renewed lisbon strategy has borne fruit, thanks in fact to a new system of governance, and the truth is that europe is currently experiencing a good time overall, we have economic growth that is giving us new reasons for hope, we are creating more jobs now than our north american partners, the eurobarometer results confirm that we have the highest level of confidence in europe over the last eight years, so it is a better time. but the truth is that as long as the institutional question is not resolved, there is always this doubt and we are confronted, particularly when we are outside europe, with questions which we must take in their proper dimension. they ask us how europeans can want to lead the world in the fight against climate change, how europeans can guarantee energy security, how europeans can want to make their economy the most competitive, cohesive and fair in the world, when they are not even able to decide among themselves how the institutions are to function and how decisions are to be taken?! it is therefore a question of credibility. that is why it is essential that we resolve the institutional question, and the prime minister, the president-in-office of the council, is leaving today, i believe, with the very clear support of this european parliament, and certainly also of the european commission, so that we can find a solution in full respect of the mandate and a solution if possible at the european council in october. that must be our aim and you have our full support. finally, i would like to say that we have also taken note of the priorities set for the december european council: immigration and the issues linked to the new agenda for security, justice and freedom in europe. one of the improvements introduced by the treaty is precisely the enhanced capacity to act which will come about in the area of justice, freedom and security. apart from the immigration issues which are, as has been said, essential from a human point of view, there are human dramas which we must face, the innovation agenda, which the prime minister has just had the opportunity to support so clearly and unequivocally with regard to the creation of a european institute of technology, with regard to the launching of the first knowledge community, innovation precisely aimed at the issue of climate change, and everything we can do to give a new impetus to the innovation agenda. it is one of those matters where europe cannot be left behind, where europe cannot lose ground, not only in relation to our american partners but also in relation to other powers, in this case emerging powers, where a more determined effort by europe is essential. i think if we achieve these goals we can be proud. finally, with regard to a problem which has been discussed here and which concerns africa, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept that our relations with a continent such as africa should be dependent on one dictator or another, whatever he may be. the truth is that europe has partnerships at the highest level with asia, where there are dictators, and with latin america, where some countries are also not democracies, and some of these dictators are even given a red carpet welcome in some european capitals. it is therefore not clear why we are prevented from having a high-level relationship with africa, giving way to others who are actually creating problems for the democratic development of africa itself, because we are somehow hostages to one dictator or another. we therefore strongly support this priority of the portuguese presidency, and we are certain that the objective or one of the objectives of this summit must be precisely to discuss democracy, freedom, human rights and the need to develop our relations in favour of good governance in africa and in the whole of relations between our continents. if so, i think we can be happy with this presidency because we are sure that during these six months we will continue to move towards a stronger europe for a better world. a europe where it is demonstrated in practice that only together can we deliver results that are truly in the interest of the european citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate on the portuguese presidency is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the convening of the intergovernmental conference: opinion of the european parliament (article 48 of the treaty on european union) (11222/2007 c6-0206/2007 2007/0808 ((cns)) (a6-0279/2007).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, mr secretary of state, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are continuing a debate which has been going on in the house since 9 a.m. perhaps it would have been more sensible to link the debate on the portuguese presidency with the debate on our position on the intergovernmental conference, because this intergovernmental conference is the heart of the portuguese presidency and its success or failure will be measured by whether or not we get a treaty of lisbon. the message of our opinion is that the european parliament gives the green light to the convening of the intergovernmental conference. the deadline for the debate on this opinion was extremely short, and many colleagues have also criticised this, but we have made a great effort and we do not want to create any obstacles. we do not want to put obstacles in anyone's way, because we ourselves have an interest in a rapid convening and also in a rapid conclusion of this intergovernmental conference. we hope that we will be able to present a result at the summit in october. this is possible because the mandate is very precise and the texts are available verbatim. in this respect, it should be more a job for lawyers than a job for politicians, if everyone is to stick to the agreements reached at the brussels summit. the first appeal to the portuguese presidency is this: remain firm, remain consistent, do not allow another indiscipline between member states, new items to be put on the agenda, requests to be made, people pretending not to have understood something that they understood very well the day before. stay tough, stay true to the mandate, and you'll succeed! we see that there are some casualties. we have a price to pay, and it's not just about symbols. the reform treaty is conceptually somewhat different from the original constitutional treaty. the idea of a europe of citizens and states, and not just a europe of states, is getting a little lost. article 1 disappears and it says only: 'the high contracting parties are founding the reform treaty' and no longer 'the will of the citizens and the states'. this may be considered trivial, but it is a slippery slope that can again prove to be negative. we point that out. we are also very concerned about the increasing number of exit clauses. we must ask ourselves whether everyone still wants the same europe. is there still the political will for more integration, or are we already dealing with two groups of countries that are only artificially kept together in the same eu? that's a question you have to ask yourself. parliament strongly criticises the uk's withdrawal clause for the charter of fundamental rights. this eu wants to be a community of values. we are going around the world to demand human rights, fundamental rights. i can already hear mr putin or the chinese prime minister saying: you yourselves are not in agreement about your fundamental rights! this is a blow to the credibility of the eu as a whole, and it is also discrimination against citizens living in the uk, or eu citizens working and living there. in our opinion we call on the institutions and governments to make every effort to achieve unity in the protection of fundamental rights, and we can succeed! the court of justice has an important role to play here. the constitutional treaty was drawn up by a convention, now we have a conference of governments which works by different methods. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the so-called simplified contract will unfortunately become a complicated contract. we need a consolidated version before the end of the intergovernmental conference, not a year later as in amsterdam. we need a readable text at the end of the conference. it might also be useful to include a statement explaining the main elements and the main messages to the citizens. we welcome all the progress, of course. we want to reach an important milestone before the european elections so that we can focus on other issues in the 2009 election campaign. so we still have a lot of hard work ahead of us, but with will and commitment we must succeed, and parliament supports the portuguese presidency. (applause from the centre)
mr president, if you are going to blame others, you should be careful to keep your speaking time.
mr president, you have had one minute to speak. you've been talking for one minute and 23 seconds. you've been talking for a while, and the president has been very tolerant of you. perhaps you have the fairness to see that too.
acting president of the council. we have been discussing this question of the treaty for quite some time this morning, i would say since 9 a.m., as one of the honourable members has pointed out, and i therefore think that the main observations and comments have been made - many of them certainly interesting - and from which the portuguese presidency will naturally draw its conclusions. i was a member of the european convention, as were several members of this house, and also of the intergovernmental conference in 2004. i cannot tell you that since 2004 i have had apprehensions, perhaps even some disbelief, but i have always known that the engine of europe was commitment and the will to move forward. i can tell you today that i think that the will to move forward, the will to compromise, to reach agreements, is back. we could not fail at the european council, and we did not fail, and by doing so we sent an unmistakable signal to europe, to the european citizens and to the world that this is a project for the future, a project which serves europeans, a project which serves the world. of course, not everyone is satisfied with the mandate that the european council has approved, but there is no doubt that this mandate will make possible a treaty with more efficient institutions, more democratic decisions and more appropriate responses to the internal problems of the union itself, but also to the problems that the union is facing on the external front. this is and will be the mandate we needed. we shall certainly have the treaty for which the citizens of europe have longed. as the portuguese prime minister said here, 'we have the mandate, we do not have the treaty' and the mandate we have received is not to change the mandate itself, it is to make the new treaty. that is our aim and we shall do it with all our strength and with all our conviction. the target for completing our work is october, and i hope that in october i can announce here the good news of a new treaty for our union. we shall therefore not allow any lack of discipline, as one of the honourable members has suggested. i would also like to assure you that the stamp of all portuguese presidencies is a stamp of transparency, of communication with the citizens, of communication with the institutions. we will of course continue to respect this timbre and i can assure you that this is a commitment of the portuguese presidency. as i say, i hope in october to announce the good news. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. mr president, honourable members, there must be a position between pangloss and his over-optimism and eyeore the donkey thinking that everything is hopeless. it is a very rare thing in politics to get a second life and i am not referring to internet role-playing. remember that, less than a year ago, the constitutional treaty or the idea of having a new treaty was declared dead, on life support or in a coma. and now we are discussing a ratification procedure coming up very soon. i think that engaging now in a blame game will not help us a bit, and, as a final comment on this debate, i have two things to say. first of all, on the charter of fundamental rights, the european commission does not like opt-outs. we would have preferred not to have any opt-outs. but what was the real political choice here? it was a weakened charter without legal force or a charter that is legally binding for the eu institutions with an opt-out, or preserving the full text of the charter. then, i prefer to have a charter which is legally binding, and an opt-out is also an opt-in so this is not cast in stone. my second comment is that i would like to say that i assume that members of parliament do not consider parliamentary ratification less democratically legitimate than referenda. (applause)some eurosceptics of course hope that the challenge of informing citizens and engaging citizens about and in such a complex issue as a treaty can be turned into a weapon that can kill further european integration. but i do not think we should allow that. (applause)also, regardless of what ratification method is chosen by member states, we are all obliged to inform, to engage, to debate, to discuss with citizens all over europe and this is what we now have to commit to, to do together, in full cooperation and in a planned manner. this is also how we will contribute from the commission side. so, i will come back to you very soon with that kind of planning for a proper and democratic and open and transparent ratification procedure. with that i also wish the portuguese presidency all the best with opening the igc. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
today the libyan supreme court confirmed the death sentence passed on the five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor detained in libya since february 1999. they are accused of deliberately infecting hundreds of libyan children with hiv. i am greatly disturbed by this news, which is distressing for everybody, especially, of course, for the nurses and the doctor, and for their relatives and friends. i met members of their families in april, and i should like to pass on to them our solidarity and support at this difficult time. i should also like to send them a message of hope. this is not the end of the procedure. the matter will now be referred to the libyan high judicial council. we believe that the libyan authorities will take the necessary steps to review and quash the death sentence, paving the way for an early resolution to this situation. once again, we reiterate our fundamental opposition to the death penalty, which is against human dignity. we express our solidarity with the victims of the hiv/aids infection in benghazi hospital. we appeal to the libyan authorities to show clemency and to release the five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. (sustained applause)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not we are giving the green light to the convening of the intergovernmental conference. the time for preparing the report and for the deliberations was extremely short. but that was the case, and some colleagues are also criticising that. there are two minority views attached to the opinion - one by marco cappato and one by bernard wojciechowski. but as i said, we were under time pressure. but exceptional situations also require a special degree of flexibility, and i would like to thank all the members of my committee for their willingness to work constructively, for considering the request and for voting on monday evening. we have complied with the rules of procedure and can vote today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize once again that the request to give the intergovernmental conference the mandate to also address the question of the seat of the european parliament was submitted by many members of this house. if you want to give that signal, you have the opportunity to do so today!
in writing. why i am against the eu "reform treaty" and the mandate of the igc: ireland's prime minister ahern says: 'about 90 per cent of the core package remains unchanged from the european constitutional treaty'. that is analytically correct, but fraud on the population in france and the netherlands. the second chapter contains the provisions of title v of the existing teu (including the european external action service and permanent structured cooperation in the field of defence) as amended by the 2004 intergovernmental conference. (mandate of the igc) the aim is to incorporate all the provisions of the constitutional treaty on the military sector into the new eu treaty on reform. the following specific provisions are to be laid down in the contract: 1.the eu's arms supply obligation; the eu arms agency (now also in the treaty); 3.new options for military intervention such as 'disarmament measures', or 'disarmament missions' involving violence; 4.military assistance to third countries 'in the fight against terrorism on their territory'; 5.close cooperation between the eu and nato; 6.no parliamentary control over foreign and military policy; 7.the court of justice shall have no power of decision in foreign and military policy; the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. 9.eu battle groups for rapid eu military interventions worldwide (now also in the treaty); 10.military structured cooperation. individual eu member states can take the lead in military policy; 11.to enable an independent eu military budget in addition to national military budgets. the eu's armament and militarization are accelerating. the military was the backbone of the constitutional treaty. the foreseeable reform agreement is also a military agreement.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr rosati, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on the euro area 2007 (2007/2143 (ini)) (a60264/2007) and the report by mr gay mitchell, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on the european central bank 2006 (a6-0266/2007). first of all, i am very pleased to welcome the president of the eurogroup, the prime minister and minister of state of luxembourg, mr jean-claude juncker. i am also very pleased to welcome the president of the european central bank, mr jean-claude trichet, to the european parliament. i would also like to extend a warm welcome to mr joaquín almunia, member of the commission.
president of the eurogroup. mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the central bank, madam president of the commission, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in europe we have replaced the substantive debate by the addition of simple remarks. we are invited to parliament - i hardly see it - the plenary session, as it is called - and i see that we are talking about the daily living conditions of europeans, which of course adds to the credibility of our institutions. the european newspapers, especially this week's, report on what was said at a recent eurogroup meeting with a guest of the evening whom we had the pleasure of welcoming. i read the summary of these long debates in editorials that are barely twenty-five lines long, and we complain that europeans are ill-informed about european reality! i guess so. on the other hand, i am pleased to note that there is very little difference between the substance of our friend rosati's report and our common reflection in the eurogroup, except for a few nuances, since our common observation is that growth in europe has started up again, that it is widening, that it is being prolonged, the whole point being whether, in a few months' time, we will be able to see whether or not this prolonged recovery, this renewed growth in europe, allows us to say that the growth potential of the european union, and of the euro zone in particular, has substantially moved upwards. we agree that the levels of underemployment, unemployment are being corrected downwards. we have the lowest unemployment rate in a long time. i'm sure you do. it is important to stress that the european union, which wants to be a model for the world but has remained at a structural unemployment rate of over 7%, has no reason to be applauded by others or to proclaim itself the victor of the phenomenon of unemployment on our continent. the deficits are falling. we have seen a clear improvement in the european public finances from 2005 to 2006. this is particularly true of the deficit, which has been corrected from 2.5 in 2005 to 1.6 in 2006, which clearly shows that the corrective part of the reformed stability and growth pact has proved its worth, and this despite all the generally uncertain warnings that were given to us when we amended the pact. it is true that we are struggling to achieve the same successes in the preventive part of the pact as we have in the corrective part of the pact in terms of the recovery of public finances. we remain committed, the members of the eurogroup - we are thirteen today and we will be fifteen from 1 january - we remain committed to the effectiveness of the policies that must be implemented to give its real impetus, its real leap to the preventive arm of the pact. when the economy is doing well, when growth rates are giving so many reasons for satisfaction, when economic growth is taking off, it is obvious that these times, which we call the good times, must be used to correct the structural deficits of our public finances. this is why we attach great importance to the rapid achievement of the mediumterm objective, which means that euro-area member states must redouble their efforts to reach their mediumterm objective in time. you are aware that the informal eurogroup meeting in berlin on 20 april took a binding decision on this point, since we said that all the member states should reach the medium-term objective in 2008 and 2009, some of them having been granted, without their case being specified, to reach it in 2010. there was never any question of being there until 2012. this was, of course, the main point when we recently met the french president at the beginning of the week, who came, and this is something to be welcomed, to explain to us at the eurogroup the new lines and the new directions of french economic and budgetary policy. we applaud the reforms that are under way, since they are structural reforms that the french government and president want, but we insist on what we expect and demand of france: it must, like the other member states of the euro zone, meet the mid-term deadline we have set for ourselves on 1 january 2010. this is a remark that applies to france; it can easily be applied to the southern countries and, in an ecumenical way, to all the member states of the euro area. but we have received assurances that the deficit will fall in 2008 compared with 2007, and that the french authorities have accepted the principle of allocating all the gains from revenue in relation to budgetary forecasts, insofar as they are short-term revenue, and that the deficit and debt will be reduced. we all think, since this is a subject which is being raised in the press, both in france and across the rhine - we are in strasbourg anyway - that no country tried, in any working language of the european union, last monday, in the eurogroup, to call into question the independence of the central bank. in fact, if someone were to do so, it would not be enough to be expressive in the way he articulates an unrecommendable thought, but it would also be necessary to respect the treaties. we wanted an independent central bank, we have an independent central bank. it will of course remain an independent central monetary authority. (applause) i would like to thank the strong euro is another topic of debate. but we do not see the eurogroup ministers, in the present circumstances, today, claiming that a strong euro would be likely to jeopardise economic growth in the euro zone. we believe rather that those member states which are uncomfortable with the external strength of the european currency, which reflects the vitality of the economic recovery in europe, should, at home, ensure that their national economic system, that is to say their euro area subsystem, becomes more competitive by introducing the necessary structural reforms. i was sensitive to what your rapporteur said in his written report on the deterioration of certain aspects of wage policy. many company executives are being given allowances that do not correspond at all to the repeated calls, both from the bank and the eurogroup, for well-understood wage moderation, i.e. wage moderation that keeps pace with productivity improvements. it is not surprising that european workers no longer understand a europe where some earn fortunes without working, when we see the amount of work that this requires, and that the others have to resign themselves to accepting, to endure the calls we make to them to encourage them to moderate their wages. (applause) i would like to thank it is economic and social injustice that is taking root. it demands that we respond. i agree with your rapporteur that the external representation of the economic area must be made more solid, more unified, without admitting that i have understood the full extent of his aspiration when he advocates a single representation of the euro area at international level. despite his qualities, jean-claude trichet will not be able to make me run away from the european scene. i'm in, and i'm staying in. and i have no ambition, no ill will, that would make me want to provoke the escape of the other jean-claude. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not the only institution in the euro area which is represented by the european parliament. the external representation of the euro area can be unique, even if there are three of us, provided there is agreement between the three partners representing the euro area outside. and that agreement exists. it is well known that on the essential points of monetary policy, both internal and external, we share exactly the same ideas and convictions. i shall confine myself to the main points, mr president, since i find your rules of procedure particularly harsh when they call for us to speak in a more imaginative way about the essential problems and, as parliament often says, about everyday europeans.
the ecb mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i have the honour to present to you today the annual report of the european central bank for the year 2006. it is an important tool for reporting to the citizens of europe, to their elected representatives, to the parliament, on monetary policy and our activities in the areas of our competence. i will first give you a brief overview of the economic and monetary developments in 2006 and explain the monetary policy measures taken by the ecb. i would also like to make some comments on the financial market stability and the payment systems. i will start with the economic and monetary issues. in 2006, the ecb's monetary policy continued to anchor medium and longterm inflation expectations at levels consistent with price stability, reflecting the credibility of the ecb in conducting its monetary policy. as has been said by the rapporteur very eloquently, in 2006 the euro area economy expanded at the highest growth rate since 2000. notwithstanding the impact of high and volatile oil prices, real gdp rose by 2.9% compared with 1.5% in 2005. the economic recovery gradually broadened in the course of 2006, and the nature of economic expansion became increasingly self-sustaining, with domestic demand acting as the main driver. the latest data and survey releases have remained broadly positive, supporting the view that economic activity in the euro area in the second quarter of 2007 continued to expand at solid rates. looking ahead, the mediumterm outlook for economic activity remains favourable and the conditions are in place for the euro area economy to continue to grow at a sustained rate. regarding price developments, average annual hicp inflation in 2006 was 2.2%, unchanged compared with the previous year. this was above the ecb's aim to keep inflation over the medium term below, but close to, 2%. although this outcome mainly reflects the increases in oil and commodity prices and although inflation has been slightly below 2% in the first half of 2007, there is no room for complacency. the outlook for price stability over the medium term remains subject to upside risks. as capacity utilisation in the euro area economy is high and labour markets are gradually improving, constraints are emerging which could lead in particular to stronger than expected wage developments. in addition, pricing power in market segments with low competition may increase in such an environment. our assessment that upside risks to price stability prevailed has been confirmed throughout the period from the start of 2006 to mid-2007 by cross-checking with the monetary analysis. the marked dynamism of monetary and credit growth in 2006 and 2007 reflected a continued persistent upward trend in the underlying rate of monetary expansion, adding further to liquidity accumulation. to address the upside risks to price stability identified by the ecb's economic and monetary analyses, the governing council has, as you know, adjusted the monetary policy stance gradually in eight steps since the end of 2005. as i said last thursday in explaining the governing council's assessment, after the adjustments in the key interest rates, the ecb's monetary policy remains still on the accommodative side, with overall favourable financing conditions, vigorous money and credit growth, and ample liquidity in the euro area. firm and timely action continues to be warranted to ensure price stability over the medium term. the governing council will continue to monitor closely all developments in order to ensure that risks over the medium term do not materialise. with regard to fiscal policies, the ecb shares the view expressed in the draft resolution that fiscal consolidation is key and all the more necessary in good times in order to achieve long-term growth. for the governing council, as was very eloquently said by both the rapporteur and the president of the eurogroup, it is important that all governments comply with the provisions of the stability and growth pact on fiscal consolidation and that all the countries concerned honour the commitments made at the eurogroup meeting in berlin on 20 april 2007. as agreed in berlin, taking advantage of favourable cyclical conditions would enable most euro area countries to achieve their medium-term objectives in 2008 or 2009, and all of them should aim for 2010 at the latest. i have to say that we also very much welcome the emphasis which has been placed by the ecofin council on measures to improve the quality and efficiency of public finances. turning to structural policies, the motion for a resolution adopted by the econ committee refers several times to economic divergences in the euro area. let me stress first that, overall, inflation differences among euro area countries have fallen and are currently relatively limited by historical standards. the magnitude of current inflation and output differentials at the moment i am speaking is similar to those that are observed across regions or states within the united states of america, a vast continental economy which has an order of magnitude, a dimension, which is of the order of magnitude of ours. that being said, a single currency means a single monetary policy and a single exchange rate vis-à-vis other currencies. it is therefore all the more important to ensure that all the national shock adjustment mechanisms function perfectly. the efficient and smooth functioning of economic adjustments within the euro area requires the removal of institutional barriers to flexible wage and price-setting mechanisms as well as the completion of the single market and thus greater cross-border competition. indeed, well-designed structural reforms implemented by national governments are crucial to improve the functioning of product, labour and financial markets and to reinforce competitiveness. we also consider that free and undistorted competition fosters long-term economic growth and job creation and facilitates the maintenance of price stability in the euro area. let me say a word now on financial stability, which i know is a very important issue for parliament. we would acknowledge the positive role that hedge funds play by contributing to enhancing the efficiency and liquidity of financial markets. we should also be aware, however, that hedge funds can also represent a source of risk to the stability of the financial system. against this background, the report which was issued in may 2007 by the financial stability forum at the request of the g8 on highly leveraged institutions is welcomed. the report contains a number of recommendations addressed to supervisors, hedge fund counterparties and investors, and the hedge fund industry itself, which i fully share. as for the role to be played by the industry, more than ever we will support the proposal that the hedge fund sector would strive for best practices and that industry-led benchmarks would be a suitable tool to pursue this objective. in this vein, the recent initiative that has been undertaken by the industry to set up a working group to review best practices is a very welcome development and i look forward to the result of such work. my final remarks perhaps concern the integration of payment systems in europe. i have noted with satisfaction that the approach of the single euro payments area and the target 2 project is very positive and we will continue in the eurosystem to play our role in this regard. as far as t2s is concerned, we have put in place a governance model for the development phase which seeks to involve all stakeholders through the creation of an advisory group on t2s where market players are well represented. in april 2007 we launched an official public consultation on the principles and proposals underlying the t2s project. the first preliminary assessment of these comments shows that their feedback is generally positive. out of 67 proposals, we have obtained a total of 3200 comments from 56 institutions and we have noted that 60% of these 3200 comments indicated full agreement to the proposals, while only 6% indicated full disagreement. all the feedback received has been published and is being very carefully considered. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the european central bank, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is very positive that for the first time we are holding this debate on the situation in the euro area - the second we are holding, after the first following the first report by the commission on the euro area and the report on the european central bank - simultaneously, and that we are making a global reflection on the situation in the euro area, on the functioning of economic and monetary union and on the prospects for the future. i should like to thank both mr rosati and mr mitchell for the excellent reports they have presented us and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the work they have done in discussing the proposals we are discussing here today. the proper functioning of the euro area is a matter of vital importance to our citizens. although i must say at the outset that i am concerned that many european citizens, who have euro in their pockets and pay in euro every day, are not showing excessive satisfaction with the single currency at a time when the euro area economy is clearly recovering, when economic growth is above our potential - above that of the united states too - when the euro area is benefiting from a recovery, as mr trichet has said, based on domestic demand, which was not the case just a few years ago. it is a recovery with investment growing very satisfactorily and heralding future improvements in our economy and with an economy that is helping to generate - last year - two million jobs in the euro area countries. and all this with a trade balance that is practically balanced, with an inflation rate currently below 2%, and with a stability that the rest of the world's economic areas would like for themselves. i believe that all of us, the commission, of course, but also the council and, in particular, the eurogroup, the european central bank and the european parliament, have a responsibility to explain to our citizens that this european undertaking is now, eight years after its creation, producing very good results. i think this debate should serve that purpose. but it must also be used to learn from experience, to know what elements of economic and monetary union are not working as we had imagined they should have worked eight years ago, and to put in place the necessary adjustments or policy decisions to make the future better than the present, even if the present is positive. a positive present which, since yesterday's ecofin meeting, more europeans will share. yesterday, ecofin formally adopted the final decisions needed to confirm that the euro area will be extended to malta and cyprus on 1 january 2008. on 1 january this year it was extended to slovenia. next year there will be three new member states which are also part of the economic and monetary union, sharing the single currency with 318 million other europeans. i think it is a very positive element that was discussed and agreed with full satisfaction yesterday, not only by the 15 members of the euro area, but also by the other 12 states that do not yet share the single currency and i think it is worth highlighting at this time. i shall not go into detail on the economic situation, as both mr juncker and mr trichet have already done. as regards the implementation of the stability and growth pact, which i believe has to do with this improvement in the economic situation and with this economic stability which we are enjoying in the euro area, i must say, as mr juncker has already said, that the implementation of the corrective part of the revised stability pact, the application of the excessive deficit procedures, is being very positive. we have abolished three excessive deficit procedures this year in relation to three euro-area members, including the two main economies in the euro area, france and germany, which are no longer in excessive deficit. we have also abolished the excessive deficit procedure against greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. if things continue as they are now, italy will have corrected its excessive deficit by the end of the year and will be well below 3%, and if things continue as they are now, if not this year, it will be the next when portugal corrects, as the council has asked it, before the end of 2008, the excessive deficit. so, as far as the euro area is concerned, the implementation of this element of the pact, which is the best known, the most striking and which has the strongest and most powerful instruments in the hands of the commission and the council, is being carried out satisfactorily. the preventive part is what we are concerned about and concerned about now. the eurogroup discussed it on monday, the ecofin discussed it yesterday. it is the most current and most difficult debate in good economic times, because in good economic times it is more difficult, not in economic terms but in political terms, to continue to consolidate public finances and the instruments in the hands of the commission and the council to help that correction of public finances beyond the 3% limits, towards that medium-term objective of balance in structural terms. they are weaker instruments from a legal point of view and must be based on political consensus, peer pressure and the conviction that this is a necessary condition for sustained growth. we have recently - this week - discussed again the situation in italy, which is in an excessive deficit, but which is already having to consider, and is considering with great difficulty, how its consolidation process is progressing. we are fortunate to have less to discuss the german situation, because there has been a lot of progress in fiscal consolidation in germany. and we've started to discuss the situation in france. i will tell you, adding to and complementing what mr juncker has said, my opinion on the debate on monday in the eurogroup. there is one very positive fact: the french president has committed himself to the eurozone finance ministers and the president of the european central bank and the commission to push forward a very serious reform programme which he will be giving us in detail by september. i would like to mention a second very positive fact: he has undertaken to allocate all surplus revenue above the budget to fiscal consolidation and debt reduction. and, something new, at the eurogroup meeting he said 'if i can adjust the deficit in 2010, i want to adjust the deficit in 2010', which was not clear before the eurogroup meeting. it is true that he also added "if i can't, i will have to do it in 2012". but that explanation did not end last monday, because another element of that meeting which i consider very important is that the debate on the french budgetary strategy, like the debate on the budgetary strategy of any other country, will be held, as it has been done so far, in the framework of the stability and growth pact, with france presenting a revised stability programme, which will be analysed by the commission and the council and it will be the ministers, meeting in the council, in the eurogroup and also in ecofin, who will say what their opinion is on the adjustment and fiscal consolidation programme presented by france. i think this should be highlighted because there are those who have interpreted what happened in the past few days as the second death of the pact - which some had said since it was dead in 2003. i think it is alive and well, but it is difficult to apply it in the good times of the cycle, especially in some countries. but that is what the instruments of the pact are for: to help overcome those difficulties. and i would like to make one last brief comment, mr president, on the importance of the new treaty, when it comes into force, in giving the eurogroup more institutional capacity, in improving the governance of economic and monetary union, where, both externally and internally, there is still a long way to go. i hope that the commission will be able to present to you, in the next debate, a full analysis of how economic and monetary union is working and how it should work, taking advantage of the 10th anniversary of the decision to launch the euro in may 2008.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr mitchell and mr rosati, very warmly for their work. with the single monetary policy under the responsibility of the ecb and the euro as the single currency, the euro area member states have achieved the highest degree of integration in monetary policy imaginable. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. a high degree of sustained economic convergence among the countries participating in monetary union is the basic prerequisite for a stable, strong european currency. and it is against this background that i am very pleased, mr juncker and mr trichet, with the statements you have made here today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it could be summed up in the phrase, "the mountain gave birth to a mouse". i am glad that you are clear and firm in your statements, but i believe that the debate on the question of how the euro and the conditions that shape it should be interpreted in the future will continue. and this discussion requires considerable firmness on the part of all concerned. as a representative of the younger generation, i would urge all member states involved in the euro not to abandon the efforts to consolidate and to maintain budgetary discipline in their national budgets. in this context, i am reminded of montesquieu's words that the point is to observe the 'esprit de la loi'. the basic treaty on economic and monetary union must be respected, even if governments change. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if one member state, which has been a major source of fuel over the past week, were to deviate from this course, other member states further north would follow, and the consequences for consolidation and budgetary policy in the european union would be disastrous. so, mr juncker and mr trichet, stay strong, stay firm and do not let yourselves be turned away from this path in the years to come!
mr schwab, the attempt to imitate montesquieu is of course particularly relevant in this case.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (parliament agreed to this)
the next item is the continuation of the debate on the euro area (2007) european central bank (2006).
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a brief statement on kosovo. in recent years, there has undoubtedly been significant progress in stabilising the western balkans. to consolidate this progress, however, a key challenge remains: the completion of the process of determining kosovo's future status and the implementation of its outcome with a strategic objective. a timely and sustainable resolution that lays the foundations for a democratic and multiethnic kosovo, committed to the establishment of a state governed by the rule of law and promoting regional stability and the european perspective of the region. the determination of kosovo's status is crucial for consolidating stability in the region. the european union has invested heavily in the balkans, both economically and politically, and we do not want the region to be destabilised again. kosovo is a region of europe, it is up to the european union first of all to try to resolve the issues concerning kosovo. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. the status quo is not sustainable. in accordance with the declaration by the foreign ministers of the european union in luxembourg on 18 june, the council confirmed its support for special envoy mr atisari and reiterated its position that his overall proposal constituted the basis for a resolution of the status issue through a new un security council resolution. the european union remains fully committed to ensuring that the united nations security council can adopt such a resolution in due course, also as a basis for the european union and international presence. maintaining a united position among member states and a firm and coherent approach on kosovo will be crucial to achieving this objective. the council also reaffirmed its conviction that the settlement of this matter was a sui generis case which did not set a precedent. the european union remains ready to play an important role in the implementation of the resolution on the future status of kosovo. our planning on the ground is well advanced and has been pursued on the basis of the comprehensive approach adopted by the council in december 2006 and on the assumption that a new un security council resolution will be adopted giving the european union a clear mandate. we are committed to ensuring a successful transition and have been working closely with unmic to achieve this. unmic has ensured that it will maintain its full operational force until the end of its mandate.
member of the commission. kosovo’s future status is the last remaining status issue that resulted from the break-up of yugoslavia. it is vital to get movement in the un security council at this stage. the security council members need to carry their responsibility for resolving kosovo’s status and set up a multilateral framework giving the whole region a sustainable outcome. i call on serbia to play a constructive role in the next phase of the process. i call on all those involved not to pursue unilateral actions, whether declarations or veto threats, which would only harm the interests of us all in a stable region that can fully become part of the european union. in march you adopted a resolution on kosovo here in parliament. in my view our institutions share much common ground. you took the view that the only sustainable settlement is one that respects all communities, helps kosovo’s economic recovery and provides an international presence to safeguard the interests of all ethnic communities. in june, the council confirmed the eu support for un special envoy martti ahtisaari and his comprehensive proposal as the basis for the settlement of kosovo’s status and a new un security council resolution. we support the proposal as the best possible available compromise that can ensure that all communities have a future in kosovo where democracy and the rule of law can take a firm hold. the key elements of this proposal are the building blocks of any modern society. they include the protection of the rights of communities, protection of cultural and religious heritage and basic constitutional and security provisions. all these are vital for a democratic and multiethnic kosovo. in a nutshell, we must do three things now. firstly, we must settle kosovo’s status without unnecessary delay. secondly, we must preserve the essence of the current settlement proposal and thirdly we must further support kosovo’s european aspirations and progress towards the european union. as commissioner, i have already opened up several instruments under the stabilisation and association process. the commission engages in a regular dialogue on reforms. we provide generous assistance. we monitor progress on the basis of european partnership, and we have opened up regional cooperation activities with kosovo. delaying the process for delay’s sake is a potentially dangerous exercise. it can hardly merge the diametrically opposed positions on status, but it could increase the risk of instability on the ground. hence, we must show the kosovars that there is movement and that there will be a solution. we must not allow the hardliners to gain the upper hand. the balkans and europe would suffer the consequences of such a development. kosovo is indeed a profoundly european matter. we have much at stake to achieve a sustainable settlement. as you said in your march resolution, finding a solution on the basis of mr ahtisaari’s proposal is of the greatest importance for the stability and further development of the entire region. both serbia and kosovo are due to become part of the eu, like their neighbours, since the future of the western balkans lies in the eu. indeed, neither russia nor the united states is as directly affected by what happens in the balkans as europeans are. it is europe that would pay the price if the status process failed, and therefore kosovo’s status should not be settled by unilateral declarations or unilateral veto threats, but by effective and responsible multilateralism. a sustainable settlement is indeed best achieved by a managed and multilateral process. let me close by reiterating that delaying the status process for delay’s sake will get us nowhere. it would only risk instability in kosovo, prolong the agony in serbia and delay the region’s movement towards the european union. this is the time, therefore, when europe, the eu and its member states, must show leadership and help bring a sustainable solution to kosovo. we owe it to kosovo. we owe it to the balkans and we owe it to europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i thank the commissioner for his very clear words. the new un secretary-general also reiterated yesterday that further inaction on the status issue is a serious threat to peace. if kosovo, which is 90% albanian, does not finally get what it deserves, namely an internationally controlled independence, then economic instability and political unrest are threatening. for this reason, it is high time that a realistic line was drawn. this house has voted 75 percent in favor of the ahtisaari plan. it has made it clear that it is for internationally controlled independence. the commission and the majority of member states have also taken this line, as have the usa. that is why it is high time to end the blockade of the un security council. the russian-serbian nationalism must no longer stand in the way of a peaceful solution which guarantees the serbs in kosovo extensive internationally guaranteed rights such as are not available to a minority in any other european country. we must finally find a solution, because for our indispensable eu mission we need both a stable international legal basis and a broad consensus among the kosovar people, if we are not to be perceived as an occupying power. it is therefore important to finally approach this political solution, which is overdue, with moderation. mr president, i want to make it very clear that we cannot accept the west falling into a trap where the serbian constitution claims territory in kosovo and the russians say they will veto it unless serbia agrees - which it cannot do because of this constitution, which has now been created in a questionable referendum. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not if we are honest, it is quite clear that the situation is at a dead end. there are statements from serbia and russia that they will not accept dictated independence, and there is now also the statement by mr bush that he wants kosovo to become independent unilaterally. the role of the european union is therefore essential in the present situation. but there are a number of points which are not very helpful, such as mr barroso's statement that the european union is something like an 'empire'. it confirms a lot of things, but it's not very helpful in this situation. the eu is itself a party and the eu wants to establish a protectorate in kosovo as a result of unmik. it is quite clear that the 'ahtisaari plan' will not exist and that it must be accepted by all. the solution must be in accordance with international law, that is to say, serbia must also agree to the overall situation. we in the european parliament are in dire need of information on the planned esdp mission in kosovo. we still do not have that information, and it is imperative that we get it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we had hoped that kosovo would no longer be an international issue, but that politicians could act on their own responsibility. unfortunately, the legacy of milošević has not been completed by his death and is a heavy burden on the democratic government in serbia today. i demonstrated with members of this government in belgrade in 1996 against milošević, and i wish nothing more than that this government can lead serbia into the european union. but i also witnessed the apartheid regime in kosovo, which was installed by milošević from 1989 until the nato intervention. i regret that in serbia too much nationalism is still creeping into the debate. if belgrade really cared about the quality of life of the serbs in kosovo and not about losing their territory, then belgrade would have to agree to the ahtisaari plan. it grants the serbs in kosovo a degree of self-determination that other minorities in serbia and throughout the balkans can only dream of. if the unmik leaves now and we cannot fill the vacuum in the absence of a security council resolution, we are faced with a dead end. mr commissioner, you have not given us an answer to that. once again, as has happened so often in the balkans, the europeans do not seem to be prepared to take the necessary step. this lack of decision is a very big problem and it will lead to great difficulties. we are not interested in the kosovo question being postponed until st. nimmerlein's day. the collateral damage of failure to act will be enormous. russia, like many other countries, was represented in the contact group. that is why russia knows very well that there were no negotiations between belgrade and pristina at all. the demands for negotiations now, after the suspension of the ahtisaari plan and the suspension of a resolution in the security council, are unrealistic. i therefore ask you very sincerely to follow the commissioner's advice and do everything possible to meet the interests of russia, which are neither in kosovo nor in serbia but elsewhere, and this will resolve the issue.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to welcome to the european parliament, on behalf of the green group, the members of the macedonian parliament who are following this debate as a delegation. this is a good sign, because we were very worried because the albanian party dui had boycotted parliament for months. now they are all here together again, which means that this obstacle to reform has also been overcome. commissioner rehn, you mentioned the reform summit earlier, and we can say that mrs merkel has really been a success as president of the european union. we have no longer the problem of absorption, the debate is over, it now depends on the reforms in the candidate countries whether we can take them on or not. i would like to say a few words about the eu. i ask the european union how we can credibly demand the important reforms of all the applicant countries when a member state like the united kingdom claims to be able to deny its citizens fundamental rights. there is a credibility gap which the applicant countries do not have to fill, but the european union does. we cannot accept the exclusion of fundamental rights within europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession of macedonia to the eu is not delayed. that is why i would ask my colleague, who will speak after me: he has one minute to withdraw his amendments, which are a permanent attempt to torpedo the agreement between macedonia and greece and thus prevent a peaceful solution.
i have to say, madam president, the eu has already made a good deal of progress towards macedonia, which is a candidate country. the stabilisation and association agreement with the eu has been signed, but this is only the lightest part of the exercise. there is a lot of work ahead for macedonian politics. the implementation of this agreement in practical legislation is certainly difficult, but it must be tackled with determination, for example in the judiciary, in the administration, in the economy, in fiscal policy and especially in the fight against crime and corruption. this is the most urgent task of the government and parliament. the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and the commission is working with the member states to develop the region's economic and social development. the badinter procedure is a useful instrument in dealing with issues affecting the albanian population. it must not, however, prevent the necessary legislation, nor be construed as a directive for the formation of a government. it is regrettable that the name issue still clouds relations between macedonia and its neighbour greece, which, as we have heard, has invested heavily in macedonia. nationalist tones on either side are not helpful. the effects of this blurred relationship extend to the issue of double visas to macedonians by greece. of course, this unresolved bilateral issue cannot block macedonia's path to the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the unresolved situation in the neighbouring country of kosovo has led to the offer in macedonia by a former albanian fighter and current member of parliament to join forces with 10,000 albanian fighters from macedonia to fight for the independence of kosovo. the albanian people - that is my appeal from here - should really be mindful of looking after their own affairs in macedonia and leaving the solution of the kosovo question to those who are elected to do so!
acting president of the council. i thank you very much, madam president, for your kind words of good wishes for the portuguese presidency. you will have noticed, when you read the priorities for the six months of the portuguese presidency, the attention and importance we have given to social issues and, in particular, to social issues relating to the relationship between work and the family. the council is obviously open to studying and considering all the proposals on the specific question it is now asking, and the commission naturally has an important role to play in this matter. as soon as the commission suggests to us supplementary or other measures in this context, the council is obviously prepared to discuss and debate them. since the portuguese presidency does indeed stress the importance of social policy and the european social model in its presidency programme, it naturally feels particularly encouraged to consider these proposals which are submitted to it.
acting president of the council. the council regrets that it was not possible to reach agreement on this matter at its meeting in luxembourg on 12 and 13 june, despite the fact that the examination and adoption of this framework decision was one of the priorities not only of the german presidency but also of the previous presidencies since the commission's proposal was presented to the council on 28 april 2004. in this context, i would like to remind the honourable member that on 1-2 june 2006 the council agreed on the principles which should govern further work on this proposal. it was concluded that the scope of the proposed framework decision would be limited to the right to information, the right to legal aid, the right to free legal aid, the right to interpretation and the right to translation of procedural documents. the european council, at its meeting on 15 and 16 june 2006, called for the conclusion of negotiations on procedural rights in criminal proceedings. at its meeting on 19 april 2007, the council concluded that work on this issue should continue with a view to reaching a consensus on the scope of the instrument at the june council meeting. the question to be resolved was whether the union had competence to legislate in purely national proceedings or whether the legislation - i should clarify that at least 21 member states shared this view - should apply only to crossborder proceedings. i should like to point out in particular that the german presidency has made every effort to reach a consensus on this matter, but unfortunately without success. the portuguese presidency will try to find a way forward on this issue and we are currently analysing the status of the dossier resulting from the debates held in the council on 12 and 13 june 2007.
acting president of the council. it is still, i think, a little early to give a full answer to all the questions you have asked me. it was a question, but it included several lines and several open possibilities. i have indicated that our presidency began a few days ago. we're reviewing the status of the files and seeing how we might move forward on this matter. he spoke, for example, of the facilitation of the co-decision process through qualified majority voting, a more frequent application of qualified majority voting. as far as i know, this is not the case in the treaties at the moment, but it should be in the so-called 'reform treaty', which is not even being negotiated at the intergovernmental conference. what i can assure the honourable member is, as you will have recognized from my speech, the importance we attach to this matter, the urgency we attach to this matter and we will also try, in the light of the whole process we have followed up to now, of the whole background of this matter, to find the solution which can best merit the agreement of all the member states.
acting president of the council. the presidency is of course in favour of any initiative or proposal in the framework of the european union's relations with the mediterranean countries which aims to strengthen euro-mediterranean cooperation. this region has always been, and will continue to be, a top priority region for the european union. we do not have at the moment any specific details of the ideas advanced and proposed by the french president on this subject, so i am not in a position to comment on them for the time being.
i have two short supplementary questions. firstly, what can you envisage to improve and intensify cooperation with north africa? there's a lot missing right now. secondly, could you envisage the mediterranean community as an alternative to turkey's full membership of the eu?
acting president of the council. you will also have seen in our document with the priorities for the portuguese presidency the strengthening of the european union's relationship with the mediterranean basin and our intention to hold, within the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership, several high-level ministerial meetings on various subjects. this is therefore an important subject and area to which the portuguese presidency, and the portuguese prime minister has also made this very clear here today in the debate on the priorities of the portuguese presidency, will give full attention. with regard to cooperation or the euro-mediterranean union, and finally the proposal put forward by the french president, i repeat what i have already said: we need and are interested in knowing better what the concrete proposals actually are that will be submitted to us in order to then consider, in a comprehensive and comprehensive way, this whole framework of relations between the european union and the mediterranean basin.
acting president of the council. mr president, i would ask you to consult the german presidency's reply to oral question h-0394/07, which is dated 20 june 2007, so it is a recent reply. in general, the council would first of all like to stress that the commission naturally has the right of initiative in relation to new legislative proposals. as regards the specific question of beef imports, we have to take into account that, in accordance with community law, the commission has the power to administer the safeguard clause. the council therefore has no direct influence on the decisions taken by the commission in this area.
president of the council i will be brief, mr president, to thank you for your kind words on the success of the portuguese presidency and to recall briefly that, at the initiative of this presidency, the first summit between the european union and brazil was held in lisbon very recently, a summit which i believe will definitely and categorically mark the future of relations between the european union and brazil, which we naturally want to raise to a new level. it is foreseen that this strategic dialogue that we are going to establish with brazil will include all issues, economic, trade, energy and climate change issues. i think that these and other questions will also have their place in that context, and that is what i would like to say to the honourable member.
acting president of the council. the efficiency of all those who work with me has made it possible to find question no 19 quickly and easily, the question you referred to and to which i am very pleased to present the answer. we believe that turkey's approach to minority rights remains restrictive. as far as cultural rights are concerned, legislative amendments have been introduced, as is well known, to allow teaching and broadcasting in languages other than turkish. however, the public education system still has restrictions on the learning of these languages. in addition, general restrictions on the use of languages other than turkish persist in both political life and access to public services. it is clear that significant new efforts will be required from turkey in this area. turkey has to ensure cultural diversity and promote respect for and protection of minorities in accordance with the european convention on human rights and the principles set out in the council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities, in line with the best practices of the member states. there is no doubt that the european union attaches great importance to this issue as an integral part of the reform process under way in turkey and will continue to closely monitor and evaluate the progress made on the ground.
acting president of the council. mr president, i would like to say very briefly to the honourable member that all the issues that have to do with the dialogue on human rights and respect for minorities, etc., all these issues deserve very close and very careful monitoring by the european union. this and other cases. have no doubt that we will!
i had a follow-up question. turkey always announces changes to the law but does not pass the laws, and the reality is also getting worse. so i ask you very specifically: do you think that this language law you speak of, and also the religion law we have mentioned, will be passed this year? what will the council do if they are not adopted this year?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report. before i speak today, which will be very critical of the political system of ukraine, i would like to say one thing: a glance at the map or history books makes it clear that ukraine is a european country and that the question of membership of the european union can only be tied to the progress of democratic reforms in ukraine. the fact that ukraine is part of europe should be taken for granted by each of us. the political system and the political elites in ukraine - i have to say this after many visits, even after the orange revolution - are in a very sorry state. the blocs of parties have now been without exception completely discredited. the reputation of the core institutions, the reputation of the office of the president and the reputation of parliament have suffered greatly from the fact that in the last two years the interests of the citizens have not really played any role in these institutions, but that only the interests of the elites who now occupy these institutions have been at the centre. a power vacuum has arisen in ukraine. for example, there are reports of a second wave of enrichment taking place in the shadow of the debate in parliament. that has to change. after the elections we must ensure that the blocs finally find a way to real democratic compromise, because there will be a deadlock again. the attempt to introduce a form of tyranny of the majority in ukraine must be counteracted. but there are also signs of hope. i think it is very good that the citizens of ukraine are facing this whole conflict calmly and that they are no longer in danger of being drawn into violent conflicts. i hope that this will continue to be the case and i believe that the situation will stabilise if we continue to speak honestly to the ukrainians about the prospect of membership. in this sense, i think the signals for an association agreement and this report are very good!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you only have to look at the map to realize that ukraine is one of the most strategically important countries for us. we must therefore be very interested in ukraine's democratic development and the rule of law and its economic success, because this is the most important prerequisite for the country to have the right orientation. at the same time, it must be said that ukraine as an independent nation is free to decide in which direction it goes, and that no one - not even a big neighbor - has the right to influence this. the time of the hemispheres is over, each european country can make free choices. it is therefore important that ukraine be offered this enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, which is of great importance for the possibility of ukraine's free decision. i see this agreement in the context of accession to the wto, a future free trade area, the further development of the european neighbourhood policy and the possibility of a european economic area plus or whatever we have called it in the european parliament. it is about strengthening the path of a free, european-oriented ukraine as part of the euro-atlantic community . the extent to which this path will lead depends on the development of the european union and the development of ukraine. we all have our homework to do. but we should not make false promises now that no one knows if we can keep, for this will lead to disappointment. we should implement this partnership and cooperation agreement now so that citizens today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow can see that there is progress and that it is worth living in a western-oriented way, in freedom, democracy and the rule of law, and that this benefits the people. and this is where we need to help. mrs harms said it: the political elite in ukraine must also become aware of this and these sandbox games, which are only about personal vanities and do not go on, must be stopped. i believe that we have a duty and that we should do it, but that we should not make false promises but remain realistic so that our statements have credibility.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we agree with the report on ukraine. i would have liked to have seen more clarity in some of the points. ukraine is in a period of upheaval, although the agreement of the parties to the conflict to hold new elections at the end of september has led to a relaxation of tensions. there is no guarantee that a newly elected verkhovna rada will mean the solution of the political problems. will there be more cooperation and trust between the blue and orange camps after the elections? the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. a clear european perspective can provide the necessary impetus for democratisation and modernisation. the fact that ukraine is far from meeting international human rights standards must be mentioned, as must the fact that corrupt structures, especially in politics and the judiciary, and the opaque interconnection with the economy, are hindering a successful reform process. the prospect of accession is very important and necessary for both ukraine and the eu. the european idea of creating a continent of peace, democracy, prosperity and human rights applies to all european countries, and we are also clearly saying this about ukraine.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have made it clear on numerous occasions in the plenary and in the committees that we, as members of the european parliament, attach great importance to the neighbouring country of ukraine. we have followed with great sympathy the positive developments of the orange revolution and have tried to promote these developments wherever possible. we continue this today by supporting the development of a strengthened partnership between ukraine and the eu. ukraine is in the midst of a potentially promising process of transformation. but it is still a long way from the stage reached by our younger eu members. it can control the pace itself. we are prepared to support them in this. i also see the upcoming parliamentary elections and the subsequent formation of the government as a test of the country's future orientation. the european perspective requires the development of a political culture compatible with european standards. the structures which have rigged elections in the past and are now shopping around in parliament to buy the votes they lack must fundamentally change their behaviour. the same, of course, applies to those who are bought. all political forces are called upon to respect and protect the country's institutions, their respective competences and integrity, and not to use them as a means of control and maneuvering in the internal political conflict. only if this is achieved in the long term will citizens gain confidence in democracy as a form of government worthy of support. i am very concerned about the way in which the institutions are being treated there. i think that we in the european union cannot imagine the extent to which these practices have taken place. that is why our report is full of detailed demands as to what we expect from ukraine on its way to europe. these expectations must be met!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i also wish to congratulate you on your election yesterday and on your first term in office here in the house. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for this exciting report, because we all have one objective: to eliminate disparities between the regions of the european union. this is not only in the interests of the poorest regions of the european union, but in the interests of all, because otherwise development would stagnate overall. we have a huge potential in the regions we support. the people there want to get involved and contribute to the european union, but we must also give them the chance to do so. i would like to take up a number of points which the rapporteur has also mentioned in her report and which i consider to be very important. we need the european union's help quickly, that is, we must build up the administration and not stand on each other's feet at the various levels of administration. this includes effective crossborder cooperation. i am very much looking forward to seeing how the member states actually implement this in the coming weeks and months. i would be glad if the new financial instruments jessica, jeremie and jaspers, which were invented a few years ago, were finally known in the member states and applied in such a way that they would become effective. of the more than 400 applications submitted for the operational programmes, at least a quarter have been approved so far. i would be glad if this could be done more quickly, perhaps with the possibility of making further improvements later. i would like to emphasize one more thing: addressing disparities between regions also means working to eliminate differences in equal opportunities between men and women. i therefore urge you to support the relevant motions here in the house.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, i too would like to congratulate you on your new position. after reform is before reform! this is why, in the committee on regional development, we asked ourselves - and again - immediately after the reform of the structural funds, how we should assess the poorest regions of europe in the future. the aim was to give cohesion policy a future in the light of today's experience with a view to the new reform of the structural funds in 2014. we know that the rich member states are less and less willing to pay into the solidarity pact. it is precisely the common commitment to the poorest regions within the framework of cohesion policy that holds the european union together at its core! unfortunately, this report does not deal with these questions of the future. it focuses on the implementation problems associated with the current structural funds regulation in the new member states. it is an example of what happens when you cut back on a powerful decentralized administrative structure! however, i think it is naive to believe that increased involvement by banks can be substituted as a panacea for the absorption and management problems in the poorest regions. the jaspers and jessica initiatives must be used in such a way that democratic action is not suspended and that the public sector does not become indebted for generations. the poorest regions will then be left on the margins of the european union, and that cannot be in our interests!
member of the commission. madam president, without any doubt the poorest regions of europe need attention. some regions in europe need special attention, for example, regions at a statistical disadvantage, the outermost and isolated regions and cities. it is important to focus on restructuring structural assistance and to pay more attention to the lisbon goals of innovation, research and development, as these are activities which will create a solid base for the future economies of those regions. we should also pay heed to lowering energy consumption through renewable energies, which will provide a solid basis for the sustainable future of the relevant countries. gender mainstreaming is a horizontal principle that we will follow in all our actions undertaken under all the structural funds. absorption capacity is something on which we are focusing constantly. all this has received, and will continue to receive, constant attention. solidarity with the poorest in europe is the backbone of the european union, especially after the two recent enlargements. we should not deny the problems, but we should not forget the good results we have achieved in the past. it is important to talk about both successes and problems, because this is a way of securing even greater recognition for cohesion policy and eliminating future problems. i should like thank you for the excellent geringer report, your comments and your critical remarks. it is our duty to address the problems of the poorest in europe. the commission will certainly focus on that. solidarity should remain one of the areas where we show the human face of europe as a whole.
i am not going to go into detail. the sooner we vote, the sooner you'll be on your well-earned vacation. but of course there is a meeting this afternoon. i would ask mr robert atkins to make sure that the other members of the committee are here on time next time.
that is not the case today, mr atkins, because he has not yet been able to ensure that the members of the committee are disciplined. but i'm sure he'll make an effort for the future. then we'll judge each other fairly and objectively.
i do not know whether you are seeking the office of president of the european parliament, mr chichester. but if you were to be president, you would find that it is less about the food than about the fulfillment of many obligations.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
thank you very much for this report and for your great commitment, josep borrell.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. amendment no 1 should be put to the vote not under paragraph 4 but under paragraph 146, which is the way it was agreed with the applicant. that paragraph is not at the beginning of this resolution, but at the end. if you did, i'd be grateful.
our skilled employees have already made this provision.
now is the time. thank you for bringing me to the attention of what's going on in the background.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the four oral amendments which we table are the last attempt to reach a joint resolution. i would like to make it clear to the epp group that we share the criticism. criticism alone will not stop the terrorists, however. we therefore want to bring a constructive approach to this resolution. we therefore request the following concrete supplement:having regard to the joint ruling of the european court of justice of 30 may 2006 on cases c-317/04 and c-318/04, we are therefore seriously referring to the judgment which we ourselves have imposed as a parliament. this is the first oral amendment for which i ask for your assent.
the supplement at this point: ... and the responses he received from minister dr wolfgang schäuble and commission director-general jls jonathan faull of 29 june and 3 july 2007,
then we'll ask for a reconsideration. whereas the pnr agreement is meant to help prevent and combat terrorism and international crime,
mr president, i should like to move the following oral amendment: ‘whereas the pnr agreement provides the legal framework for the transfer of eu pnr data to the us and, by doing so, provides a basis for the air carriers to operate their business with the us,’.
i hope that's how everyone understood it. then let's do it accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the following should be added at the end of this amendment after 'open the corresponding process': 'including the possibility of membership'.
amendment no 6/revised is withdrawn.
then it 's on to number 11 .
i wish you all a happy holiday, but only after you have taken part in the vote this afternoon!
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague erik meijer on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because, contrary to the opinion of the rapporteur in the committee on foreign affairs, the following point 3 was included in the report. it reads: 'welcomes the macedonian government's cooperation in the field of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the european security and defence policy (esdp), in particular its participation in the eu althea mission and its willingness to contribute to the development of esdp capacities and to future eu-led civilian and military crisis management missions.' this position is fatal. the 'cfsp' is welcomed here, but in reality it is a militarization of the eu. this formulation requires a potential candidate country to participate in the eu's military component now and to equip itself to provide 'esdp capabilities'. the althea mission is being welcomed here. the althea mission is a symbol of the financial trickery of eu military missions, for example through the athena mechanism, which cannot be controlled by parliament. the european parliament should not be involved in the further militarization of the eu. the rest of the report is better than the usual reports of the european parliament on the balkans.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make an oral explanation of vote on behalf of the group on the kamiński report: ukraine is an important european country which must be supported in its democratic, rule of law, economic and social development - also in the interests of the eu. an improved agreement between ukraine and the eu is an important instrument for this. we now need many practical steps, such as wto accession, free trade area, improved neighbourhood policy and a kind of european economic area. the people of ukraine need to feel that democracy is paying off for them. the extent of the eu's european perspective depends on the capacity for reform not only of ukraine but also of the eu. the citizens of ukraine do not need promises that may be unrealistic or that will not bring any practical progress in the foreseeable future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not bessarabia, from which the republic of moldova emerged together with the neighbouring regions of ukraine, was a thriving micro-europe in which romanians, ukrainians, russians, germans - the family of the current german president is from there - caucasians and many other peoples lived together in peace. the more dramatic thing is that we are dealing with the criminal legacy of the hitler-stalin pact there today! if the hitler-stalin pact had not been in place, this country would have joined the european union at the beginning of the year, along with romania. we must not forget that, and that is why we have a special responsibility. the criminal stalinist structure called transnistria has absolutely nothing to do with what we see in kosovo. i therefore want to take the opportunity to contradict my polish colleague, mr libicki. kosovo is a democratic country where there has been a genocide, where the un and nato have intervened to stop this genocide. comparing this to the situation in a criminal structure called transnistria is really confusing apples with pears! we must dismantle this criminal structure in transnistria, we must gradually integrate this region into europe, that is our historic obligation. and we must remind russia in particular that it made commitments at the osce summit in istanbul eight years ago, none of which has been fulfilled. we cannot accept that, and we must also speak clearly to our russian partners who support this structure in transnistria, because without them this criminal structure would not have existed for a long time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to point out that the honourable member is right, but during the german presidency of the council the commissioner for human rights, mr nooke, was here twice on thursday afternoon. this is a precedent which future council presidencies should follow. (applause from the centre)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 12 july 2007.
you all deserve a vacation. you all look well rested and i hope you will now take great pleasure in our european work. first , i regret to inform you of some things . since we last met here, we have learned with great sadness of the deaths of two great europeans, gaston thorn and raymond barre, both of whom were distinguished members of the european commission and prime ministers of their respective countries. gaston thorn was a member of the european parliament for ten years, from 1959 to 1969. he was foreign minister of luxembourg from 1969 to 1974 and prime minister from 1974 to 1979. from 1981 to 1985 he was president of the european commission. under his presidency, the european community negotiated the conditions for the accession of spain and portugal, launched the common fisheries policy and settled disputes over the community's budgetary resources and future financing. raymond barre was vice-president of the european commission from 1967 to 1973 and prime minister of france from 1976 to 1981. as commissioner for economic and financial affairs, he put forward the first proposals for the creation of an economic and monetary union in europe in 1969 and 1970 as part of the barre plan. both men were active in promoting european unification until the end of their lives, and they made very important and practical contributions to this process, often in the difficult conditions of the time. last weekend, altiero spinelli would have celebrated his 100th birthday. as one of the architects of today's european institutions, altiero spinelli was a member of this parliament for ten years. i had the great honor of working with him for seven of those ten years until his death in 1986. during his ten years as a member of the european parliament, and in particular as chairman of the committee on institutional affairs, he played a key role in pioneering an ambitious agenda for institutional reform. his draft treaty on european union, which was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament in 1984, laid the foundations for many of the important changes introduced by the subsequent treaty reforms, including a substantial extension of the european parliament's legislative powers. during the summer break we have experienced a whole series of natural disasters, from the dramatic floods in the united kingdom to the heat wave in the eastern mediterranean to the recent tragic fires in greece. these events have caused great suffering for many people in europe. in greece, the fires killed more than 60 people. it goes without saying that we are dealing with this tragedy as the first important item on our agenda this afternoon, and i am sure that i speak on behalf of the whole of the european parliament when i express our deepest condolences to the victims of these and other tragic events. we also express our condolences to the families of the more than 500 people who died in the earthquake in peru on 15 august and to the thousands who have died as a result of the senseless violence in iraq since our last meeting. we also note with sadness and dismay the plight of the large number of refugees who continue to die in boating accidents in the mediterranean and the atlantic as they try to enter the european union. we all remain called upon to find solutions to end these tragedies. i would ask you to remember the deceased in silence. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions, pursuant to rule 144 of the rules of procedure.
thank you very much. reconciliation in europe is always a challenge.
mr sumberg, since you addressed the president of parliament, i should like first to thank you for your appreciative comments. however, i must make it clear that there are things that are not part of the competence of the president. this was a decision of the conference of presidents and, therefore, i had to carry it out. the conference was organised by an institution of the united nations. therefore, it was not any institution but rather an institution of the un. i explained this in a formal letter to the speaker of the knesset and i have also explained it to the ambassador. as far as the president of the european parliament is concerned, i did not take part in it and i did not receive any of the speakers. the conference was held in the european parliament, but the european parliament was not responsible for it. i think you should take that into consideration.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the forest fires in greece, their consequences and the lessons to be drawn from them for future prevention and early warning measures.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i had the opportunity to witness the fire disaster and its effects in greece on the ground over the weekend. i have travelled with my colleagues to some of the affected areas and i must say that i have never seen such a tragedy in my life. people have lost their possessions, everything they owned, in a matter of minutes because of these fires. i've talked to people who literally ran for their lives with what they were wearing on their bodies. it's a dramatic situation. a number of people are in existential danger and need help, and in the short term. that is why what commissioner špidla said is right: we need help quickly and we need unbureaucratic help. when i speak on behalf of our group of the european people's party about rapid and unbureaucratic aid, i do not mean that some officials in the commission think that two or three months is a short and bureaucratic period. no, the help must be given now, immediately and immediately, because people do not need help in two months, they need it now. we therefore ask that the funds from the solidarity fund be made available immediately and that if there are any surpluses in the structural funds or other sources of finance, they be made available as soon as possible. this is not the first time we've discussed disasters. we have been sitting here over and over again for the last ten years discussing what to do. this is not just true for greece, it is also true for people in the flooded areas of the uk, which were similarly affected this summer, or people affected by earthquakes, in whatever disaster area. the important thing is this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need an effective local fire brigade when there is a fire near athens and no disaster commissioner in brussels. this is the crucial point, which means that the fight must be decentralised. the european union's governments must therefore build up the infrastructure needed in their own countries, on their own terms and under their own responsibility, to be able to react quickly and effectively on the spot in the event of floods or fires. the european union must use the means at its disposal to coordinate effectively. there are governments that want to do it all themselves, after failing to build infrastructure for ten years, and then they call for help from outside, much too late, out of misguided shame or misguided ambition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a sign of responsibility and effective management. governments have to do this much, much faster. and then we have to develop the coordination mechanisms that are needed to be able to act effectively. we all, as politicians, must be clear about one thing: the people do not love the state. the state is opposing them as a police force or as a tax authority, and we all know very well that this is of marginal interest to the citizens. but one thing people care about when it comes to the state, central, is that the state is available when you need it most. and when a state is not available when you need it most, when it does not act when the police or the fire brigade are needed, then the citizens do not forget it. this is something that the responsible people in all countries should be reminded of. what are we here for? we must create the conditions to protect people's basic life risks. it has to be done locally. i have to repeat once again: in the places i have been, there are no volunteer firefighters. in my country, in the city where i was mayor, there is a volunteer fire department. there are citizens who spend their free time coming together to ensure fire safety when it's on fire. where i've been in greece, there's no such thing. it would be an act of solidarity, for example, if countries with such a system, together with those concerned, such as greece, were to consider setting up such an instrument and the european union were to provide the means, funds and instruments to do so. that should be a consequence of what we're experiencing now. and one final note, which is very important to me: i think that in a situation like the one that people are in in greece today, the feeling that they are not alone is very important. that is why it was so important to me that today, as the social democratic group in this house, we say to the people there: 'we know what you are going through at the moment, regardless of party lines.' and in such a situation, there are no ideological differences. there is no christian-democratic or socialist firefighting! what is there is solidarity with people in need! and another thing i've learned is that more and more people are going to be in distress -- whether it's floods or fires -- if we don't understand that it's not just criminal elements. yes, i think that arsonists who want to acquire land by destroying our nature are primitive criminals. there are. but also, much of what we've seen in the last few years is a consequence of climate change, and so we're going to have to be prepared for a lot more than what we're seeing now. but it also means that it is not enough to fight the effects when they occur. we must also combat the causes. so a re-engineering of climate policy is also a major contribution to getting a better handle on what we've seen in greece and elsewhere. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my sincere condolences to all those who have relatives and friends to mourn. my thoughts are with those who have lost their possessions. they need our solidarity. the greek government had to admit openly that loopholes in the law and failed policies were responsible for the devastating fires. in times of climate change, the rejection of regional policy has just as dramatic consequences for nature. that must now change in greece as well. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. land speculation in any form must be rejected. it must not be allowed in any way, let alone with eu funds! i also warn the commission against changing the rules of the structural funds regulation at the expense of the sustainability and partnership principle which are embedded in it. that would be the wrong answer to the devastating consequences of the forest fires in greece.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all feel compassion for people who have lost family members or friends, but also for those who have lost large parts of their lives to very personal things. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. that is our basic principle, and we intend to apply it in this case. and yes, we also want to live up to the responsibility we owe to each of our sister and brother countries in the european union. but if we are to take responsibility, then we expect responsibility. we have to ask ourselves, could this have been avoided? i look to the colleagues who have spoken, who have been in this parliament for a long time and who have already passed many laws and action programmes. there are good reasons to say: yeah, it could have been avoided. the european parliament adopted the action programme on disaster prevention nine years ago. what does it say, mr. trakatellis? you've been working on it, and so have many others. it says that help should be delivered quickly, but also that training should be provided, that there should be information events, that people on the ground should be trained to act quickly and to request help quickly. maybe this time it could have been done. but they're probably not all good enough yet. what is the status of the forest focus programme? forestry is this even taken seriously? in the countries of the european union, which are always hot in summer - the whole south - is there any provision for snow? or is it not lucrative enough? you have to think about all that. if we want to take the responsibility that we owe, then we also have the right to demand responsibility. what about the waste policy? we have heard over and over again that some member states do not take this very seriously. we have heard from the european commission over and over again that there are countries which do not comply with existing laws. this also means that a cigarette thrown away quickly can cause a fire immediately. yes, we want to show solidarity and help. but what is it about this so-called intervention force? i would like to ask those who are calling for a european intervention force, perhaps even a european fire brigade, how many millions of people in 27 countries? almost 500 million? they're either charmingly naive, like something out of a fairy tale, or they're populist. it's one or the other. we should not be pretending to people out there that the european union in brussels - at the commission or at home - could have enough firefighters or rescuers to intervene in disasters. we need communication structures and we need to call for the helicopters from germany, finland and the czech republic when they are needed, and on the same day. there's an early warning system for certain food incidents. there, the deadline is 12 hours. a little faster than 12 hours should do it. i believe that we should be honest with the outside world and say, yes, we can give money, and we can build communication structures. we can try to help, but you must also take responsibility for it yourself, wherever you are, whether in germany, in northern europe, in southern europe or wherever. as bad as this situation is at the moment, and as much as we need to show compassion and solidarity now, the day after tomorrow we will also have to say what needs to be changed!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it has been made clear on several occasions in the debate today that the recent natural disasters in the eu member states, and not just in greece, have shown that in addition to the national measures that must be taken, there is an imperative need to improve the european union's crisis response. as rapporteur for the solidarity fund, i cannot explain why the council has so far been unable to agree on the revision of the solidarity instrument, which was launched in 2002, and which was adopted by the commission and the european parliament a year and a half ago. this new revised version is a less bureaucratic and more flexible instrument of assistance. and if this instrument is not mobilised now - in the wake of these current disasters - under the portuguese presidency, when will it be? the european citizen rightly asks: why is the eu not able to act more quickly? the value of the solidarity between the member states, which is so much promised, is, in my view, to be determined, especially in a crisis situation. the solidarity fund, as adopted by the european parliament in 2006, is a strong and flexible instrument at the service of the eu, which enables residents of eligible areas to benefit effectively from solidarity aid and support. this fund is not only a means of restoring normalcy and functioning, infrastructure and economic and social life, but also - and this is not unimportant for the eu - a clear political signal that the eu can send to citizens who are in a current emergency situation. it is not a question of increasing the fund's financial resources. this is unquestionable and should be kept to a fictitious budget line of one billion euros. but i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the council - and in particular to the portuguese presidency - to make it a priority to ensure that this revised instrument of solidarity comes into force.
in writing. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the images of the severe fires in greece have been with us all summer. the rapid firefighting assistance of other eu countries and the eu aid payments now being offered will not be forgotten in greece. but something else - and this brings me to the causes of the fire disaster - has been forgotten in greece for decades: the creation of a land register. greece has been obliged to do this by the eu for a long time, but nothing has happened so far. and so large parts of the greek forest remained commonplace and thus no man's land. anyone who set a piece of wood on fire, or put a hut on it, could expect to be left unmolested and even to be legalized at a later date - a regulation that made arson a veritable popular sport. the eu will now help the greeks, but the greek state must look at its fingers and also beat it to the punch. in concrete terms, this means that if greece does not complete the land register by 31 august 2008, not only will the accumulated fines in millions of euros finally become due, but other payments will also have to be reconsidered. as rapporteur for the transparency of financial payments in the agricultural sector, i shall pay particular attention to this.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i apologize, i did not know that my predecessor was also absent and that is why the time for the speech was postponed. thank you for allowing me to speak. i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and the committee unanimously adopted this position after extensive consultation. i would first like to point out that we in the committee agreed that soft law - or whatever else one calls these measures, which are now increasingly used in european law as well as in national legislation - has become a common practice, offering the opportunity to react flexibly and therefore quickly to new developments, and should not be criticised per se. however, we also agreed on the fact that the commission is using soft law as a circumvention measure in individual cases in order to relieve the legislator of the possibilities of participation provided for by the legislation. so here we see a big problem in the area of soft law. we also mentioned the fact that parliament joined the action against the commission in one case because we had just found a circumvention. we believe that soft law is now being applied in so many different ways by legislators that we must always distinguish clearly between what is actually only being introduced as a green paper, i.e. only as a preparation for further legislation, and what is really needed for flexible legislation in the context of soft law. we as members of the committee on the internal market do not see any legislative, direct consequences of such green and white papers, but we believe that when legislation is adopted anew, the legislator always decides anew. the debate is not only about soft law but also about other measures of better regulation, and i believe that in many places we are still far from the level of progress that citizens have now been hearing from the media, and therefore all the bodies involved - parliament, council and commission - are called upon to make even more rapid progress in this area.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make just three comments on the fundamental questions for my group. firstly, on the subject of impact assessment: i recognize that there has been some very commendable progress since parliament took the initiative on this issue in 1999 and that an interinstitutional agreement has existed since 2003, which was negotiated by our president gargani at the time. but there are still shortcomings. parliament is calling for a greater degree of independence in the impact assessment of legislation, as it has done in many previous resolutions. i do not want to hide the fact that i think we should consider creating an independent agency, similar to the one in america, which would be located outside the commission and which would develop compliance assessments for the commission, but also for all the other institutions, according to a standardised procedure. but it is also crucial that we in the legal affairs committee have to learn from the experience that not all commission proposals are always subject to genuine legal impact assessments. there are two specific examples that i remember from the directorate-general for justice and one from the directorate-general for the internal market. i also think it is important that we should seriously consider whether we should not also carry out legal impact assessments in comitology procedures, because here the bureaucracy is often created by the comitology decisions and the burdens. on the subject of soft law, i fully support the report by mr medina ortega. in fact, we in the legal affairs committee have the growing impression that the european commission is abusing the instrument of soft law to circumvent parliament's co-decision powers. it is not possible for the commission, as a legislative body, to take decisions on a proposal from the directorate-general for competition and to consult parliament on them, but this is not the case with recommendations in the field of the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is urgent that we conclude an interinstitutional agreement on simplification, as we have done on other issues, to ensure that we have an efficient procedure and not open pandora's box, which would end up not with simplification but rather with complication.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it is true what the colleagues say: eures is writing a european success story. without the eures network of advisory centres, geographical and occupational mobility in europe would not be possible to the extent that it is today, namely for workers who know their rights and therefore exercise them. the fourth freedom of the european union would be a gray area if eures did not exist. i do not understand, therefore, commissioner, why you are not showing more commitment to improve eures, i.e. to create more jobs and improve quality, for example by means of best practice models in the border regions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to move freely within the union. it really takes more commitment. the regions most affected by the skills shortage would benefit from facilitating mobility in europe. but of course it is the member states - and the council, which is again conspicuous by its absence - that are the ones who are putting the brakes on this. the mutual recognition of social security systems has not yet reached the level necessary for workers to take up employment in another member state without losing social security. it is even more difficult for workers in member states which still insist on temporary restrictions on freedom of movement, such as my own country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the black market there determines wages and security. the fight against social dumping can only take place in the context of legal freedom of movement. i do not understand why governments like the german one are making the issue of the shortage of skilled workers a top priority and on the other hand do not have the courage to establish freedom of movement for people from eastern european countries and thus finally alleviate the partly absurd situation at the borders. i would also like to ask the social dialogue partners to do more to promote freedom of movement in the countries concerned and to make the black sheep public by means of public controls so that they do not profit from social dumping.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation, the open and transparent way in which he has worked on this report. the report raises important questions. the strengthening of public confidence in the internal market is a key task. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the shortcomings were again evident this summer when, for the third time in just over a year, toys were recalled from the world's largest toy manufacturer, mattel. the citizens rightly expect a swift reaction from the european union, from the european commission, and we expect a revision of the toy directive. the report deals with the main issues, including the role of tax policy, and here i take a completely different view from my predecessor. i think it is right to say that there is a risk of distortions of competition if we do not achieve greater harmonization in this area. we are rightly expecting proposals from the commission. we believe that the statements on energy policy are problematic. apart from the fact that the question of the separation of networks and services in the consumer's mind is a very central element which is not dealt with here, we regret that nuclear energy plays such a major role. nuclear energy completely ignores the fact that there are many unresolved safety issues - as the accidents in miles of germany and sweden this year have shown - that the disposal problem remains unresolved and that subsidiarity is also still an issue. the member states have decided to withdraw from nuclear energy, and i therefore do not think it is right for the european union to intervene by providing financial support. we also see a lack of balance in the question of the liberalization of postal services. the question of the financing of universal services in small member states and remote areas is not, in our view, settled. access to universal services is, however, central to restoring public confidence in the internal market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jacques toubon, who has drawn up this position for the epp-ed group, also within our own group, in a good working relationship between representatives of the northern, southern, eastern and western member states. we have already discussed this and we agree that the positive aspects of the internal market are far beyond what is generally known in the public and also what is partly taken into account in one or another debate in this house. we also agree that the commission and its public relations services are of great importance in better highlighting the benefits for workers. the internal market clause contained in this report, which we in the epp-ed group consider to be a good thing, could in my view be transposed to national legislation in the light of the suez and gaz de france merger. it is also quite legitimate to ask whether such mergers or developments in member states should not be subject to a similar clause in order to examine their impact on the internal market and thus also to ask whether such mergers in the internal market are beneficial for citizens. we have also included a passage on social security in the report, which is now probably useful on the basis of the modified contractual basis of the reform treaty already mentioned. we also agree that the single market is the key to europe in the context of globalisation. the protection against certain developments on international markets can only be provided by a functioning internal market. we cannot rely only on control systems, mrs rühle, for example, in the case of the recall of various toy manufacturers, but we must also appeal to the pride and quality of the european manufacturers, because we can never control everything. we are looking forward to what the commission will propose in the single market review in the autumn on the basis of this report and we hope that we will be able to take further key decisions on the internal market on the basis of the report then adopted by the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on behalf of the socialist group i should also like to thank mr toubon for a report which we can all agree with because it contains many positive aspects which are of particular importance to us social democrats. this is a good thing, because what is at stake here is the future of the internal market, the answer to the questions put by the citizens of the european union, and confidence in the policies of the european union. i would like to say to mrs riis-jørgensen that it is not enough to read only the passages which you personally like very much, but you have to look at the text as a whole. it is not that the emphasis is on free competition, the internal market and deregulation. on the contrary, a great many social democratic aspects have been introduced. we have, among other things, mentioned in paragraph 8 that the impact assessment must be carried out, particularly as regards social rights and labour law. this is the a and o to ensure that, as we always say, it is not the people who are there for the economy, but the economy that has to be there for the people. this must be the priority of the policy in which we work. another point in this report which is very positive for us social democrats is that we have made a long way towards harmonization, not just mutual recognition, which is not bad in itself, but harmonization is better. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not in competition with the other social security systems, and that the social security system is not in competition with the other social security systems. that's very important and that's why we did a very good job. it is also particularly important for us social democrats that we have managed to reach an agreement at the last minute on the future of services of general interest. i welcome the fact that the epp has taken a step forward on the basis of what is currently being drawn up for the treaty on european union. it is good that we are also putting the protection of services of general interest at the forefront and addressing the legal uncertainties that exist in the european union in this respect, so that we can meet the protection of citizens and the demand in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is the so-called internal market test. mr schwab, there is no single clause in the text that says that the internal market is a fixed thing. you should read the text again. but this internal market test is not something we social democrats want to work with. at least not until the tests that result from the european union treaties, such as gender mainstreaming or the social clause, are given equal prominence. as long as these tests, which are required by the treaties of the european union, are not carried out, we cannot agree to a test which is not provided for in the texts. that means a clear position on this point too.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate today may seem a little strange to many citizens, since we have had the single market for over 15 years and many have become accustomed to it. but even after this long period, there are still astonishing gaps, partly because of the protectionist attitudes of some member states. but now there are also developments that are not so good. the citizens, the consumers, have less choice and there is no equal market opportunity - for large companies, of course, but not for smes. we all agree - i hope not only parliament but also the commission and the council - that the single market is not an end in itself. i would like to quote one of the most important fathers of the internal market, jacques delors, who said: 'we have three basic principles: competition, which stimulates, cooperation, which strengthens, and solidarity, which unites. this last point may have been lost over the years. we social democrats attach great importance to solidarity and cohesion in the internal market. the last point i would like to make is, of course, that an effective market must also include effective control and consumer protection. only then can we achieve the trust that is so universally espoused. the number of products containing pollutants and hazards has increased in recent years, and the toys from china are only the visible part of the iceberg. over a thousand products were challenged. and that is also our task - and your task too, commissioner - in connection with the market control package, namely to win back the citizens' confidence, to do something and not leave everything as it is.
member of the commission. mr president, the oral question tabled by mr gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, gives me the opportunity to provide you with an update on where the commission stands regarding the 14th company law directive and the european private company (epc). as you are aware, and as part of our ‘better regulation’ approach, a public consultation on the epc statute was launched on 20 july by the directorate-general for the internal market and services. this consultation aims at gathering stakeholders’ views on the need for such a statute and its possible content. i know that the european parliament would like the commission to accelerate the process. however, we need to do the necessary preparatory work. an essential part of this is to consult stakeholders on different possible regulatory options – that is, a more uniform but less flexible statute, or a statute which gives a lot of freedom to users but results in a variety of epc structures across the european union. we need to hear stakeholders’ opinions on which option is the most attractive for companies. that is what better regulation is about. the feasibility study at the end of 2005 offered a rather general assessment of the current situation, but does not provide a clear answer as to the best policy option and the possible elements of the epc statute. that is why we need a more in-depth analysis. the study will, of course, provide good background material for our work. we have also benefited from the european parliament’s report on the epc statute and its recommendations on the possible content of such a statute. concerning the proposal for a 14th company law directive, the preparatory work on this issue has not been conclusive. our better regulation and impact policy requires us to demonstrate that an initiative has clear economic benefit before embarking upon it. i should be in a position shortly to make a more definitive statement on this issue in regard to the value added of such a proposal. we need to reflect further before making such a proposal, which, frankly, risks being controversial. as members know, i am not afraid of being controversial, but i need to be convinced that the potential benefits for the european union of such an initiative merit a legislative proposal. this is not about procrastination but about the belief that, to produce good quality work, the preparatory work must be carried out properly. within the next couple of months i will inform members of how i intend to proceed on these important issues.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i am pleased that commissioner mccreevy did not react negatively to the european parliament's proposals in his reply to this oral question. the european private sector has been the subject of so many hearings and consultations in recent years that i cannot see why a third, a fourth, a fifth and perhaps a sixth, and i do not know how many, should be held. that's pretty much settled. it was originally part of the commission's action plan. the majority of stakeholders have voted in favour of the revised action plan. the hearings in parliament have given a clear picture. the decisions of parliament are not to be outdone in their clarity, and i cannot therefore accept any further delay here. the experts generally agree that there is a gap in the law with regard to the relocation directive which needs to be closed. we have free movement of capital in the european union, that is to say, there is the possibility of transferring ownership and capital elsewhere, but not if i have a company, because at the moment i do not have the possibility of freely determining and changing the location of that company in the european union. there's a real gap here. the commission announced in its annual legislative programme that it would close this gap. we are faced with the situation that the european court of justice is increasingly applying its own jurisprudence in this area, in the direction of a wild west liberalisation, simply because the legislator is inactive and does not close the gaps in harmonisation that exist here. it is high time that the legislator acted and not left it to the european court of justice alone. i'll leave you with one final note. the european commission's monopoly on initiative is not something that can be achieved in a vacuum. like any monopoly, it must be understood in the context of the treaty and the interinstitutional agreements. the council and parliament have an indirect right of initiative. the commission has undertaken to respond to this in interinstitutional agreements. i would therefore like to make it quite clear that if the commission does not respond substantially within the time limit, i will propose to the legal affairs committee that it should bring an action for failure to act before the european court of justice on this matter.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. it is a great pleasure for the european parliament to welcome the president of the portuguese republic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is a great pleasure for me and for all of us, mr president of the portuguese republic, mr aníbal cavaco silva, to welcome you to the european parliament today. during your ten years as prime minister, you have consolidated the democratic institutions in your country and successfully promoted economic development. as a first-time european, you have successfully guided your country on its way to the european union. i am seeing the president of the commission, and you have just taken over the leadership of the european union, and i also warmly welcome the president of the european commission, josé manuel durão barroso, today. ten years ago, a president of the portuguese republic spoke for the last time in the european parliament. we've come a long way since then. today you are coming to strasbourg as president of portugal, on the occasion of your country's third presidency of the european union. the three presidencies of your country can best be summed up by the words 'ambitious for the community'. each time, portugal has addressed key current issues, such as the lisbon strategy or relations with africa and south america. this presidency is no exception. the country's ambitions include successfully concluding the intergovernmental conference with the adoption of a reform treaty, strengthening its foreign and security policy, in particular by deepening relations with latin america, africa and the mediterranean, taking further action on climate change and making the lisbon strategy a success. the discoveries around the globe, which began in lisbon in the 14th century, were actually the first stage of globalization. this openness to the world and the culture of tolerance which your country has developed over the centuries are particularly valuable experiences in the context of today's globalisation and therefore a benefit for our european union. we are also in agreement with the efforts made by portugal to develop relations with latin america and, through special relations with brazil, to maintain contacts with south america. your culture of tolerance, your global mindset, is an opportunity in today's world. the work of the 14th century explorers will be successfully continued by your country under his presidency with the same courage and perseverance. we wish you luck and success in doing so. (applause from the centre)
president of the portuguese republic. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful for the kind words of the president of the european parliament and i am very grateful for the invitation to be here today. i am honoured to have this opportunity to address all of you, representatives of the peoples of europe, who are members of the great european institution which is the european parliament. i am well aware of the decisive role this parliament has played in the successful process of european integration. i do not forget the intensive and fruitful collaboration with this institution when, as prime minister, i led the first portuguese presidency of the council in 1992, whose motto, i remind you, was precisely towards european union. the european parliament's contribution has been fundamental, both in making the internal market a reality and in carrying forward the european union project which emerged from maastricht. my country is now holding the presidency of the council of the european union for the third time. and again, we are faced with great challenges. challenges that require the convergence of the political will of the member states and the european institutions. more than ever, we must concentrate our collective energy and determination on what is truly essential to make europe stronger and more cohesive. this is what the european citizens expect from their leaders. the portuguese presidency will do everything in its power to create the convergence which is indispensable to the advancement of european integration. i am particularly confident in a frank and open collaboration with the european parliament, as has happened in previous portuguese presidencies. one of the presidency's priorities is the conclusion of the reform treaty on the basis of the commitment reached at the european council in june. i welcome this commitment as a very positive step, which i hope will overcome a period of erosion in the process of european integration. i therefore call for a convergence of efforts so that the new treaty can be concluded during the portuguese presidency. with the treaty's negotiating chapter closed, the european union should focus with greater consistency and renewed confidence on the challenges that concern european citizens: economic growth, employment, security, the environment, energy, globalisation. this is the agenda to which europe must respond, also on behalf of the generations that will come after us. i therefore think that this is the right time to stress the value of solidarity as a fundamental pillar of the european construction. solidarity is in fact a sine qua non for the future of european integration, along with subsidiarity, which forms the binomial of the truly founding principles. it is a tangible solidarity, put into practice, translated into common policies and actions, and not a rhetorical or a la carte solidarity. i would like to remind you of the schuman declaration of 1950, which i quote: europe... will be made by concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity. this is a reference which must continue to guide our steps towards building an ever stronger and more cohesive europe. the loss of the sense of belonging to a union that is firmly rooted in solidarity is one of the greatest risks facing european integration today. to be a true union, it is necessary to preserve the sense of community which was, not by chance, the original designation of the european construction. one of the concrete achievements that created de facto solidarity was the concept of economic and social cohesion set out in the single european act in 1986, which i had the honour of participating in the negotiation of and which i signed as prime minister of portugal. the extraordinary progress of european integration over the last 20 years would not have been possible without the policies of economic and social cohesion. these policies have contributed to political cohesion, economic growth, job creation, territorial cohesion, equal opportunities and even to strengthening europe's standing in the world. new reasons call for a fresh look at the principle of cohesion. i am thinking of the growing globalisation, the intense migratory flows and also demographic change, which is inducing the social and economic imbalances inherent in the ageing of the population. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe. the three strands of sustainable development are well known: social, economic and environmental. this is a central objective of european integration, which has been reaffirmed on a number of occasions, including in the lisbon strategy. i would like to take this opportunity to focus on the social aspect and, in particular, on the subject of poverty and social exclusion. the principle of solidarity is complemented by an ethical and moral conception of progress without which the founding values of the european idea will fail: the ceaseless pursuit of peace, the affirmation of freedom and human rights, the spirit of community, the imperative of equity and social justice, the dignity of work and the quest for a broader and more liberating civic responsibility. the unequivocal declaration of the fight against poverty and social exclusion as a european objective makes us all responsible for the need to find new solutions to increasingly complex and persistent problems. the social agenda, combined with the objectives of the lisbon strategy, already sets out this ambitious and difficult challenge that must be tackled. i would remind you that this year marks the 50th anniversary of the creation of the european social fund and the 10th anniversary of the european employment strategy. this is also the european year of equal opportunities. as president of the portuguese republic, i have highlighted the issue of social inclusion as one of the priorities of my action. during the first year of my mandate, i promoted the inclusion roadmap, with the aim of raising awareness and mobilising the portuguese people to the urgent need to address the indicators of persistent poverty, income inequality and exclusion that still affect thousands of citizens. today i am even more convinced of the need to meet this challenge through flexible and innovative solutions: greater accountability of non-governmental organisations and citizens in general, greater coordination between state action and civil society initiatives, recognition that income redistribution policies do not dispense with, but rather require, the creation of more and better opportunities for all to share in the designs of wealth creation, personal fulfillment and sustainable progress. portugal is still far from the european average benchmarks. but it is also true that europe as a whole is still far from the social cohesion objectives it is proposing to achieve and which it cannot abandon. it is true that the undeniable prosperity of the union, which economic and social indicators have been showing in recent decades, has been accompanied by a considerable convergence of the least developed member states towards the european average. the economic convergence of states should not, however, be confused with the process of convergence of the different social groups underlying the imperative of equity and social justice. in this respect, it must be acknowledged that progress has been very limited. in the five years from 2001 to 2005, the poverty rate in all eu countries remained at 16%. we are talking about 75 million europeans whose disposable income is less than 60% of the median income in their own country. if we combine this record with the trends observed in the inequality of income distribution, then we have to admit that the situation is even less encouraging. in 2005, and within the framework of the european union of 25, the income level of the richest 20% was five times that of the poorest 20%. well, in 2000, that ratio was four and a half times. a closer look at these indicators reveals that the elderly, the unemployed - especially the longterm unemployed - the single and single-parent households are the social groups most at risk of poverty. other groups, in turn, reveal worrying and increased social risks, which they represent in terms of the potential for exclusion. i am referring to children, people with disabilities, immigrants and ethnic minorities. the council of the eu itself recognises in its 2007 report on social protection and social inclusion that, and i quote, children are at a higher than average risk of poverty in most member states. in some, nearly one in three children is at risk of poverty. the risk is increased when children live in single-parent families or are unemployed. it is a situation whose gravity we cannot ignore. how can the european union, faced with the risk of a sharp ageing population and a sustained recession, fail to value its most important asset, its children and young people? (applause) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder if we are not on the verge of the effectiveness of traditional social protection policies. social security and social protection policies played a decisive role in the recovery of economies after the second world war and in shaping modern european societies. the welfare state has been a legacy of the fact that the very origin of the union is taxation. with the success of policies that are eminently redistributive of income, inspired by the idea of the welfare state, europe has built a high standard of social protection which, despite the many differences between states, is generally referred to as the european social model. the fact is that, despite its limitations and shortcomings, this social model is now an integral part of european identity itself. however, even to defend it, it is necessary to recognise the need for the social model to adapt to the new challenges and new contexts of the global world and the information and knowledge society. national policies with a predominantly redistributive character face increasing difficulties in producing visible results in the social field. their effectiveness and sustainability are increasingly in question. in the construction of the social policies of the future, we must value the idea of a welfare society, in which all of us, as citizens, must be more responsible and more supportive. it is true that without economic growth there will be no social progress. but economic growth based on social destruction is unsustainable and unacceptable. unemployment is the main cause of poverty in most of the countries of the european union. we need more and better economic growth, which translates into more and better job opportunities. facilitating participation in the labour market, holding each individual accountable for and giving dignity to his or her contribution to the production of wealth and well-being, in a process that is already called active inclusion, is the best protection that can be given to a citizen against poverty and social exclusion. the lisbon strategy's stated objective of raising employment rates in the union to a 70% threshold is a social imperative that should be borne in mind, even if it seems difficult to achieve by 2010. another way we can protect citizens is to help them to qualify, to help empower them through education and training to meet new technological, environmental and cultural challenges. it is therefore important that member states include in their most urgent priorities this common desire to raise the levels of education and training of the younger generation and to make lifelong learning a general practice. this will undoubtedly be a competitive advantage that future societies, structured around information and knowledge, will demonstrate. in 2010 we will mark the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. in the same year we will be called upon to assess how far we have been able to take the ambitions we set ourselves in lisbon in 2000. these ambitions include the objective of reinforcing, and i quote: investment in people and the fight against social exclusion. the fight against poverty and exclusion is not confined to the geographical borders of the european union. the external dimension of the principle of solidarity is first and foremost a reflection of the humanitarian values which inspire the european project. if the traditional obstacles to the development of poor countries are now joined by the problems of globalisation, then the fight against poverty and underdevelopment must be expressed globally. that's the only way you can succeed. the european union has a special role to play in this area, and it has a wealth of knowledge and experience. it should lead the global agenda in this area. it is in this context that i would like to draw your attention to africa, a continent close to europe, a proximity which goes beyond geography and which it is advisable that we should consider and treat as a priority partner. europe's inertia in relation to africa could have a heavy strategic cost for the union. in this context, i attach particular importance to the forthcoming european union-africa summit to be held during the portuguese presidency. this is the time to talk to africa and stop talking only about africa and its problems. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe. i do not want to end this speech without stressing two issues which i believe are absolutely decisive for the future of the union. first, energy and the environment. these will undoubtedly be the dominant sectors in the 21st century and their evolution will give rise to new geopolitical lines in the global world. energy and the environment are vital common interests and should be seen as new drivers of european integration. here too, a strong 'de facto solidarity' must be built up. the success of energy and environmental policies is what economic efficiency, safety and quality of life in the european union depend on. in this context, i would like to express my appreciation for the strategic vision and determination of the european commission and its president, without which the excellent results achieved in this area during the german presidency would not have been possible. second, there's a question we've all been asking ourselves: what is the role of the european union on the international scene and what is its contribution to the construction of a new global order? i believe that it is crucial for the very sustainability of the european integration process to ensure that europe is a central and influential player in the emerging global, multilateral and multipolar world. an actor with a firm, consistent, cohesive voice. a respected actor who respects. an actor able to defend the principles and values which are the foundation of its economic and social model. portugal, which was, let me remind you on this occasion, one of the countries that led the first wave of economic globalisation in history, knows well how decisive for the future of europe is its ability to act as a credible and influential actor on the international scene. i conclude, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by reaffirming that the extraordinary progress made in european integration owes much to the european parliament, an institution which has always been at the forefront of defending the values and principles which have forged europe's identity and which have woven the 'de facto solidarity' that the founding fathers left us. i am sure that here in this house there will be the vision, the will and the energy to carry forward this admirable project of uniting the peoples of europe ever more closely and of affirming europe in the world. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the applause is a sign of the great approval and warmth with which your speech was received. they have spoken of solidarity and a sense of community, and this is the basis of what we are doing together in the european union. it is only through solidarity and a sense of community and through concrete action that we will achieve our objectives. you are not limited to rhetoric, but you have already shown in your political life that you are practical and committed to europe. i would like to say to you on behalf of the european parliament that the european parliament will give its full support to the portuguese presidency so that we can reach a conclusion on the reform treaty at the summit of heads of state or government in october. i would also like to express my warm thanks and appreciation to mr luís amado, minister for foreign affairs, mr manuel lobo antunes, secretary of state, and mr álvaro mendonça e moura, ambassador, and to their colleagues who are responsible for putting into practice in the discussions what we express through our political will, and to tell them that we stand by them. mr president, on behalf of the european parliament, i thank you for your great speech and i wish portugal every success in our common europe. i thank you very much, mr president cavaco silva. (applause from the centre) (the sitting was suspended at 12.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the next item is the presentation by the council of the draft general budget for the financial year 2008.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to present, on behalf of the presidency of the council, the draft general budget of the european communities for the financial year 2008, which was adopted by the council on 13 july 2007. first of all, let me stress the excellent and constructive atmosphere in which our contacts took place during the meetings preceding the council's first reading of the 2008 budget. the conciliation meeting produced a significant result: agreement on five joint statements on important issues, thus providing a good basis for future work. i am convinced that the excellent cooperation between the two arms of the budgetary authority, with the help of the commission, will lead to a positive outcome. i can assure you that the council is willing to continue the constructive budgetary dialogue that has already begun so that we can reach a satisfactory agreement on a good community budget for 2008. in march 2007, we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the treaties of rome and reaffirmed our common values and objectives. in this dynamic project of the european union, the budget of the european union is, for the european citizen and taxpayer, like the single currency, one of the most tangible expressions of what it means to be european. the budget of the european union must therefore be tailored to the challenges we face together. there are many challenges, but let me pick a few that i consider the most important. the challenge is to remove obstacles to entrepreneurship in order to create a dynamic european economy based on the lisbon strategy. another challenge is to create a transeuropean transport network to bring us closer together and deepen the european internal market. the challenge of an information society reveals not only the importance of human capital but also that of social inclusion. the european union will be all the stronger the more its citizens are involved in this unique project in the modern history of peoples. the current challenge - and one that is being felt quite acutely in some regions - of climate change must be met by the development of renewable energy sources and a more efficient and socially responsible use of natural resources. all these challenges arise in a context of globalisation of the world economy which poses a serious challenge to our old europe which we must meet, at economic and social level, with policies that boost the productivity of the european economy and that strengthen social cohesion. this is what all europeans demand of our governance. we all have to redouble our efforts so that the budgets we draw up can respond effectively and efficiently to the areas which are high on the political agenda. for this reason, in addition to our efforts to reduce administrative burdens, the council and the european parliament share the concern that the commission should speed up the process of approving operational programmes and projects in order to avoid delays in implementation. this increased speed of approval should not, however, call into question the principles of sound budgetary management. we want more flexibility, yes, but without sacrificing the efficient and responsible use of european taxpayers' money. before going into more detail on the draft budget for 2008, i would like to recall the main principles which guided the council's decision. let me summarise these elements: adequate financing of the various priorities of the european union; a carefully controlled increase in payment appropriations; compliance with the current ceilings of the financial framework, creating, where necessary, sufficient margins below the limits of the various headings and subheadings; and finally, financial discipline and sound budgetary management. let me just mention one detail. in its examination of the preliminary draft budget the council made use of a set of budgetary tools which have proved to be very useful and which have been developed in the context of budgeting by objectives and activities. among these i would like to highlight the activity sheets, which, after a number of them have been examined in depth, the council considers that the overall quality of the process has improved significantly and expects this budgetary approach to be further developed in the future. the draft budget for 2008 amounts to eur 128 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 119 billion in payment appropriations. as regards payment commitments, i would remind you that the council considers it essential that they reach an appropriate overall level in the 2008 budget, taking due account of absorption capacities. as you know, we do not consider that overestimating the payment appropriations is a solution for the rest to be liquidated. one of the principles we used was to assess needs - real and well-defined needs - which resulted in a 3.4% increase in payments compared to the 2007 budget. as regards subheading 1a competitiveness for growth and jobs , the council intends to provide for adequate funding for the priorities related to the lisbon strategy, leaving a significant margin to cover also the priorities of the european union set out in the conclusions of the june european council, as well as other needs not yet foreseen. although the council intends to limit the increases in this sub-heading compared to the 2007 budget, i would like to stress that for scientific research the increase envisaged by the council will remain very significant, namely 7.75% more in commitments and 45% more in payments, taking into account the execution rate of previous years and absorption capacities. this increase demonstrates the great importance which the council attaches to the efficient implementation of the lisbon strategy, which is, as i have already said, an essential element of the economic development of the european union. as regards subheading 1b - cohesion for growth and jobs - the council intends to accept the commitment appropriations proposed by the commission in its preliminary draft budget. as regards payment appropriations, i would like to stress that the planned increase is still very significant, namely 6.2%, taking into account the absorption capacity and the experience of the past with regard to the completion of the old programmes and the implementation of the new ones. as regards heading 2 'conservation and management of natural resources', the appropriations provided for by the council are based on past performance and previous experience has shown that, although they are applied horizontally, these appropriations are always very close overall to the figures resulting from final implementation. i would like to add a few comments on the approval of operational programmes and projects in the field of rural development and the structural and cohesion funds for the period 2007-13. this matter was the subject of a joint declaration which we adopted at our conciliation meeting, and i can assure you that the council attaches the utmost political importance to the fact that all operational programmes and projects are implemented as quickly as possible and in an appropriate manner. as regards headings 3a and 3b citizenship, freedom, security and justice , the council intends to make only a slight adjustment in the appropriations for commitments and payments in accordance with the absorption capacities and the previous rate of implementation. as regards heading 4 'the european union as a global partner', the council intends to include some politically relevant priorities in its draft budget. i am referring to palestine, for which eur 80 million is added to the reserve, and kosovo, for which eur 180 million is also added to the reserve. we are still at the first stage of the budgetary procedure and i am sure that we will have further opportunities to agree on more precise figures in this area. at this stage the council intends, as far as it is concerned, to accept the common foreign and security policy budget proposed in the preliminary draft budget as a minimum precaution. however, it is quite likely that the amount proposed for the budget of the common foreign and security policy will prove insufficient in the light of developments in the international situation. i think we all understand what's at stake. i would like to conclude my speech by referring to heading 5 administration. the council's approach is based on both horizontal criteria, such as efficiency gains, and the specificities of each institution, especially in terms of allocating new seats for enlargement. for its own section of the budget, the council intends to provide for an increase of only 0.2%, which seems to me to be an unambiguous political signal. the budgets of the decentralised agencies were also examined in detail. a methodology based on horizontal criteria was followed, both in terms of grants and in terms of the number of new places to be accepted. i would also like to take this opportunity to speak briefly about the need to ensure sound financial management of the institutions of the european union. in this context, the council welcomes the joint declarations we adopted at the conciliation meeting, which deal with issues such as decentralised and executive agencies, assigned revenue and recruitment in the context of recent enlargements. we all know that this is only the first step in the budgetary process, but i am fully confident that together we will be able to explore all the possibilities in order to reach a final agreement and produce a satisfactory budget at the end of this year. we have as our main objective to have a budget for 2008 in time which is adequate to meet the political priorities of the union, but not overestimated because that would mean complacency with a likely lack of effectiveness and efficiency in its implementation. we must bear in mind not only the impact this budget will have on the well-being of each and every citizen of the union, but also that it is the taxpayers of each member state who are financing it. hence the need to find a proper balance point. i am sure that the three institutions here today will do everything in their power to achieve this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention.
i would like to thank mr kyösti virrankoski for his very precise observance of the speaking time. we see that the finns have everything in their hands. representatives from countries such as finland also have a great deal of influence. the other rapporteur is also a finn, ville itälä.
chairman of the committee on budgets. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are talking today about the second year of implementation of the agreed financial perspective, we are talking about the implementation of the multiannual programmes for european added value decided in the codecision procedure, and we are talking about the additional reform commitments made by all three institutions. i would like to expressly confirm to the presidency that the beginning of the trilogue and the concertation of 13 july was promising in terms of agreements in principle. the five declarations you mentioned, particularly on the question of dealing with the agencies, were the right way forward, and we hope that we can build on that. i would also like to say, commissioner, that what you have done, by presenting the budget twice, is also an important step towards a more targeted budgetary policy, both for the commission and for the european parliament. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and i hope that the council will accept it. i do not understand the council's supplementary declaration, particularly in relation to budget categories 1a, growth and employment, and agricultural policy and market measures, when it says: so if that is not enough, we may have to ask the commission to draw up a supplementary budget. category 4, foreign policy in particular, remains chronically underfunded. we have also been pointing out these shortfalls from the outset of the negotiations on the financial perspective. we will therefore work towards a sound implementation of the programmes decided upon, both in terms of commitments and payments. we will not accept any shift in our political priorities, either in this budgetary procedure or, commissioner, possibly at the end of the year through large global transfers. i would like to say explicitly that the statement on the implementation of the structural funds and rural development was important to us and we would like to ask the commission to give us an updated report as soon as possible because here the expectations of the member states and the regions are indeed justified in implementing these programmes as quickly as possible. overall, the declarations on the agencies in terms of improved cost-benefit analysis involve more transparency, more information on actual employees permanent and temporary workers and a qualitative leap forward, and this, together with the so-called commission screening report on the establishment plans, is a positive progress which we must further deepen and analyse and push forward. i also say deliberately "with caution" and not with an overreaction. of course, some of the things we complain about today, such as decentralization or the rules governing financial regulation, are a community task for which we all have to take responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we've got a lot of work to do here. let me say a few words about two or three of the priorities. the commission's preliminary draft budget for payments was 8.2 billion below the ceiling of the financial perspective. the council is now presenting a draft of 10.3 billion under the financial perspective. the council's reduction table is very questionable in its content. so the fact that in the lisbon strategy, growth and employment, we have just created a new margin of 342 million and reduced payments by 548 million compared with the preliminary draft, that is an artificial margin, to go along with what the european council said at its summit on political priorities. i suspect that the problem of funding the institute of technology is behind this, and that the problem of funding galileo is behind this. to put it very clearly, parliament expressly supports a community solution to galileo and awaits new proposals from the commission in the overall context. a brief comment on category 3: in the face of natural disasters, what is actually happening to the proposals of former commissioner michel barnier on civil protection in europe? do we have a common answer to that? how might this be reflected in the 2008 budget and beyond? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the foreign and security policy issues to which we have constantly referred prove that our political analyses were correct, and what is currently in the draft budget does not meet the requirements of afghanistan, palestine or kosovo, and the reduction in the emergency aid fund is a virtual action which we cannot understand. we are asking the commission to clarify what it sees as the way forward for us next year. and one last thing, mr president: the member states have undertaken, i quote in english, in the sense of the declaration of assurance under article 44 of the iia: 'to produce an annual summary at the appropriate level of the available audits and declarations'. i mean that in all seriousness. the member states which are not in a position to guarantee that this annual report will be available in time will have to expect that we will also have to deal with them on a budgetary level. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
member of the commission. i would like to congratulate all of us on the start of a new season which looks set to be as exciting and intense as ever, but i am very pleased that we have already had a very productive and very good-natured exchange in july. in lithuania, they say that a good start is half the battle. so i very much hope that the atmosphere in which we have started work and the achievements that we have been able to agree on and to adopt three serious declarations will indeed be a good start to the work that we need to do. we have indeed discussed the first budgetary option of the council today, although i hear a great deal from parliament about the number of complaints we have received from the commission. i accept this without any doubt and i agree with it; in fact we are prepared to respond to this and to provide any information that is necessary. as regards the first option of the council, i should like to say at once that the commission, in presenting its own, has based its analysis on the member states' own forecasts. we therefore consider that our proposal was fully justified both economically and politically. the commission cannot therefore fully agree with many aspects of the budget of the council of europe at first reading. we certainly agree with the view already expressed by the representatives of the european parliament that the greatest horizontal differences ... i would like to reiterate that the methodology has been applied again for horizontal reductions across all categories. the commission considers this to be an unjustified approach and an unjustified methodology. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the creation of a european research area, the future future future future future future. and that means, of course, that we're going to have to go back and talk about quantities, and talk about sizes, and not talk about arithmetic reductions at all. i think that the council is a little conservative in its approach to putting funds into the reserve and that we will all undoubtedly have to return to this in the near future. the commission is preparing to present its proposals for budgetary adjustment in the kosovo-palestine area to parliament and the council within the next two weeks. we are certainly concerned, as always, about the council's approach to administrative expenditure, and i would like to say that we are feeling, particularly in the european parliament, the so-called finnish budgetary effect. and i say that in a good way, because i see in the representatives of that country the need for discipline, the need for strict accountability, the need for reasonableness of costs, and we accept that and we will always respond to that. the horizontal cut in the council proposal, whereby the council itself cannot, with its own proposal, fulfil its own commitments to provide and take on additional staff, over 800 posts specifically for additional development functions, is clearly beyond the commission's capacity to meet. we very much expect parliament to take the same approach as we have in this area and that these reconstructions will be done together with parliament. so, in short, we're happy that the beginning is a success. we are still reacting critically to the council's first proposal and we are ready to discuss kosovo and palestine in the near future and, on 19 december, to discuss and decide on the proposals for galileo and the institute of technology, and we will try to find common ground with you on these important issues. so i wish us all a successful procedure and i really hope that the lithuanians were able to translate my first lithuanian well and correctly.
that concludes this item. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr bogusław liberadzki, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the inland transport of dangerous goods (com (2006) 0852 - c6-0012/2007 - 2006/0278 (cod)) (a6-0253/2007).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, the proposal for a directive on the inland transport of dangerous goods is an important dossier, because in fact some 110 billion tonne-kilometres of dangerous goods are transported in the eu every year: 58% by road, 25% by rail and 17% by inland waterways. the aim of this draft directive is to simplify and consolidate the existing rules on the transport of dangerous goods. in addition, the scope of eu rules, which currently covers road and rail transport, will be extended to inland waterway transport. this simplification leads to a reduction in red tape and an improvement in intermodality. the common rules on road, rail and inland waterway transport ensure a uniform level of safety in national and crossborder transport throughout the community. the single rules for the modes of transport will facilitate and promote multimodal transport operations. in particular, the extension of the scope to inland waterway transport is welcome. the same safety rules apply to all inland waterways in the community. this has a positive impact on working conditions on board, on transport safety and on the protection of the environment. the uniform standard reduces costs by avoiding multiple approvals and certificates. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the water supply in the community, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take action to improve the quality of the water supply. the amendments adopted by the committee on transport mainly reflect the council's position. we are in agreement and we want to try to reach an agreement on first reading if possible. i would like to emphasize that an amendment which the rapporteur has already mentioned and which represents a compromise will be accepted by this house. it is important that meaningful provisions be incorporated into this dossier. we agree with the commission and the council. the amendment refers to the provision which gives member states the possibility of adopting special rules and perhaps also of imposing requirements on the transport operators if they can justify it to the commission. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent cooperation he has given us and to ask the house to close this dossier at first reading.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would point out that the commission itself has said that logistics is the business of the economy itself. and i think that's the right approach. i hope, therefore, that when the commission presents its action plan, mr vice-president, it will divide it into measures which we can take as a community, measures which the member states can take and measures which are the responsibility of the industry itself. we must of course cut down on red tape, for example, which still hinders coastal shipping because coastal shipping is hampered by forms, whereas the lorry can travel through the european union. so yes, to reduce what is government bureaucracy and promote modern transport infrastructure and systems. but let us not be deceived: logistics is the business of the economy itself, and we should not take on something we cannot afford. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport of dangerous goods is not subject to the same restrictions as those imposed on goods transport. the state coffers don't give any money to reinforce the bridges or rebuild the roundabouts. and because of this traffic situation, the gigalinos have significant problems in traffic safety. because imagine, in a small village, a 25-ton truck goes around the bend and doesn't get the bend and is told to reset! so i think we should do what we've been doing. in finland and sweden, where you have huge areas of timber transport, yes, allow it. and in that spirit, the committee on transport has proposed something sensible. he said that we should allow these gigalinas in the member states, but only strictly if we demonstrate to the commission that road safety is given, that the transport infrastructure is given. so, we have to look at it on a case-by-case basis.
the commission's vice-president mr savary, i thank you and i thank you, mr costa, because i think that this question is very well put and that it corresponds to a real problem. the march 2004 reform aimed to organise air traffic according to operational needs and not according to national borders. this is a way to shorten the distance and avoid unnecessary rotation of the aircraft in the sky. i'll answer the questions. the first concerns the cost of air traffic management and the balance of the single sky. mr costa and you have just mentioned the key figure of one billion euros if the single sky does not become a reality, and i would add that the potential savings are even greater according to eurocontrol, since three billion euros could be saved. in addition to cost reductions for airlines, two billion would be linked to improving the efficiency of air navigation services. it is true, mr savary, that the achievement of the single european sky is not progressing fast enough, given the importance of the objectives: competitiveness, sustainable development, the fight against climate change and aviation safety. but we must not be complacent. no, i'm not going. the adoption of the basic regulations on the single sky has for the first time given the community real powers in this area. the 2004 reform has been implemented: separation between regulation and service provision, certification of providers according to european rules, air traffic controller licence and many technical measures adopted by comitology. finally, the launch of the cesar industrial project, a true complement to the single sky. but we have to speed up the process. the commission must take stock of what has been done. as early as december 2006, i had a meeting with a group of high-level experts who just gave me their report in july on the reforms that absolutely need to be implemented. the commission will present a communication on this basis this autumn. the second question concerns the functional space blocks. it is true that in the 2004 reform the council chose a bottom-up approach, i.e. from the bottom up, through the action of the national administrations in the constitution of these blocks. frankly, this approach is not fully satisfactory, because it reduces the capacity of the commission and the community institutions to make the blocs a reality and to prevent efforts at local level from being bogged down. another part of the problem is the insufficient emphasis on improving the economic efficiency of the service provided. we will try to introduce a performance-based approach in the first half of 2008. this approach should set specific performance targets for service providers and provide incentives, response mechanisms in case of non-fulfilment. i believe that this performance-based approach will accelerate the creation of functional blocks, as they will be indispensable to achieving performance objectives. we're working on the idea of a performance monitoring group, a performance review body, and a coordinator to develop these projects more quickly. i personally believe that a coordinator, such as we have for the transeuropean networks, would be very useful in activating the constitution of these functional blocks that we need. of course, we will not wait until 2009 to accelerate the creation and efficiency of functional blocks. i would like to present an initiative in mid-2008. there is a consensus that these blocks can only be effective if upper airspace and lower airspace are considered indivisible. fourthly, and finally, the bottom-up approach of the member states, which has, admittedly, failed in part. but do we have to take the opposite approach entirely? i'm not sure. i think we have to try to continue to leverage this bottom-up approach, but we have to move to a second stage that is focused on performance, on mechanisms, to develop the single sky. actively work with member states to increase political commitment and apply top-down pressure for the development of functional airspace blocks. that is why i think, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that this question was welcome, that it allows me to indicate the main initiatives we are going to take in the context of what mr savary has just said, and i think very rightly.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! we have no problem whatsoever with your performance in terms of increasing efficiency in the airspace, but your answer was perfectly clear. the answer is that the member states have not done their homework. member states have not fulfilled the obligation to rapidly establish functional airspace blocks, which has been in place since 2004. on the one hand, this leads to the costs you mentioned of up to eur 3 billion, but it also leads to environmental damage. we are discussing the introduction of emissions trading in aviation, and we are talking about 3% of aviation emissions. if we had a sensible, fast and efficient air traffic management, we could reduce fuel consumption by up to 12%, and thus achieve a substantial reduction in co2 emissions. you're a gentleman, mr. vice president, but let's get this straight: the member states are not doing their job. that is why we should all - you and us as parliament - say to the member states: 'sit back! you're going to have to make up for what's been slow. but, mr vice-president, that may not be enough. we also have to threaten to change the bottom-up, bottom-down approach. if the member states are unable to make progress on a really essential issue of aviation safety, aviation efficiency, the climate impact of aviation, then we expect you to not only report in 2008 that the member states are improving in creating airspace blocks, but that you are threatening the member states. then we must change the system and create airspace blocks at european level. this is the stick we need to get member states to create functional airspace blocks quickly and efficiently. i know how hard this is, but it's not done with kind words. we'll have to take the stick out slowly.
the commission has already done so. the single european sky is the most important transport project for the future of air transport. the commission has always stressed this under your predecessor, and i believe that this is also the case. we have adopted the 2004 package of regulations. we still have a patchwork of 58 national airspace blocks in the sky, even though we know we only need one, and if we're generous, maybe three to six. we know that this patchwork carpet - and the figures have been mentioned earlier - has negative effects on safety, of course also on the economy, on consumers. we know the queues and the congestion in the sky and we have a much greater emphasis on emissions recently. and we realized that we could make a big step forward here. in the progress report you have shown how little action is being taken by the nation states, even though there are initiatives, and you have suggested a few things to put pressure on. now i don't want to say that this is nothing, and i don't want to be a right-holder, but we said back in 2003 that the bottom-up approach doesn't work, because we already knew then that the member states would get involved in discussions about what is sovereign about services, and that such central things need a normative design from above. we thought at the time that eurocontrol could perhaps put this forward and simply make a proposal from the point of view of the matter, from the point of view of functionality, which the nation states could then rub on, and not wait until they themselves create another kind of patchwork carpet from below. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the only way to put real pressure on the council and to bring about the necessary changes.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work and the very good report that he has produced, and also the other members of the committee who have supported him and worked with him in producing such an interesting, useful and positive report. i do not want to repeat much of what has been included in the communication or in the report, and i begin by saying that i am very happy that we see eye to eye as to how we can solve and deal with such a difficult and important problem. we know the statistics, which are worrying. almost 200 000 people a year in the european union die of diseases related to excessive alcohol consumption. we have 43-45 million people who drink at hazardous levels in the european union which amounts to 70.4% of all ill health and early deaths, and this is one of the largest causes of death among young people. so the statistics are worrying, but we have to emphasise from the outset that we are not dealing with alcohol as a product on its own: it is the excessive consumption and the abuse of alcohol that are creating these problems. sometimes it makes it more difficult to educate and teach people how to consume, in moderate and more responsible ways, a product which has been around for centuries; it is the excess or the abuse that is causing the problems. i am very happy that parliament agrees with the need for a european strategy and for european action in this respect. it is true that we have to complement the policy of the member states, as is stated in article 152, but that does not mean that we do nothing. on the contrary, we are there to support, complement and add to the actions taken by the member states. it is also true that we have different cultures and different traditions in the member states but, unfortunately, we now see the problems that until recently existed only in some member states spreading everywhere in the european union. unfortunately, bad habits travel fast and are very easily copied, especially by young people. the possibility exists to exchange best practice through cooperation and working together, before it is too late. we can take action before the problem gets out of hand, and this is one of the most important aspects of this strategy. we should focus on young people. binge drinking is now a main concern regarding young people, but drink-driving is also one of the highest causes of deaths among young people. at the same time, it is extremely important to focus on the priorities, and i am glad that the report agrees with the commission on the main priorities, as i said, especially regarding young people, but also pregnant women. unfortunately, it is still a problem in the european union that we still have children born with problems because of alcohol consumption during pregnancy. one would have expected, in this day and age, with the highest level of education in the european union, this would not happen, but unfortunately it does. i have noted with great interest the reference made in the report to the problem among elderly people. this will be seriously taken into consideration for the next actions because i can see that this can also be a serious social and health problem. the european union as a whole will work on two levels. firstly, there is the committee on national policy and action, where the member states are represented, and this will coordinate national alcohol policies and develop further policies, especially those identified in the communication. but, at the same time, we also have the european alcohol and health forum, where all the stakeholders are present and there we will develop concrete actions at the appropriate levels. however, it will not be a debating society or just a ‘talk show’. on the contrary, we are asking for firm commitments which will not only have to produce specific results but also will have to be made public and closely monitored, and the results of the monitoring will also be made public. we are optimistic that this will be able to deal with some complicated issues, for example responsible marketing, responsible advertising – as identified in the report – and, at the same time, other aspects, like responsible serving, because it is not just the producers but also the retailers who have a serious responsibility in this area, and we will focus on this as well. most of the issues raised in the report confirm the policy orientations set out in the strategy outlined in the commission’s communication. some points strive to further develop this strategy and, of course, i will pay close attention to these; other points go beyond the recommendations of the commission’s communication on some issues, such as labelling and taxation. we will reflect on these issues as well. concerning the warning labels on alcoholic drinks, which i know has been an issue of great debate both when the communication was being drafted and in parliament as well, we will study the experience obtained by member states which are already in the process of introducing them and we will explore the possibility, in cooperation with the member states, of developing official common approaches throughout the community regarding this issue. we have evidence that warning labels raise awareness – and that is why member states introduced them – but, at the same time, they have to be part of a broader strategy; on their own, they cannot achieve the goals we wish for. therefore, we need campaigns for raising awareness of education programmes. for example, we can put warning labels on bottles, but what happens to drinks served in restaurants, bars and homes where the consumer does not see the bottle and, therefore, does not see the label? so we have to come up with new ideas, for example leaflets accompanying purchases of alcoholic beverages and advice from doctors, as was mentioned in the report. these are important aspects. responsible communication, responsible sales and responsible marketing are also important aspects, and we have what is provided in the audiovisual services legislation. however, through the forum, we can develop a code of conduct to be complied with by all stakeholders. i should like to finish by saying that addressing alcoholic-related harm is a difficult challenge, precisely because we have to deal with one particular aspect, the excessive consumption and not the product itself. however, i believe we are moving in the right direction, before the problem becomes unmanageable. so i am looking forward to achieving concrete results, in the bodies i mentioned earlier, but, most importantly, in close cooperation with parliament, and i am looking forward to your support in this continuous effort.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a fact that harmful and risky drinking has significant health, economic and social consequences. but it is also a fact that alcohol is part of europe's cultural heritage and that the majority of europeans handle it responsibly. we therefore do not want to demonize alcohol itself and we do not want to pass new laws. our aim is to focus on vulnerable groups and dangerous situations. a teenager who drinks himself into a coma, a pregnant woman who harms her unborn child by drinking alcohol, or a drunk driver who puts himself and others in danger - these are the areas where we need to intervene! this report provides an excellent basis for this. it is balanced, problem-oriented and involves all the actors: the member states, the alcohol industry, retailers, pubs, doctors, schools and parents. the competences are clearly defined. the main actors are the member states. the eu has only a supporting role. it is designed to collect data, highlight best practice, design and support information campaigns, and encourage member states to better enforce existing national laws. after all, what good are strict youth-protection laws if they are not followed and if violations are not punished? we also recommend, for example, a zero-promill limit for young drivers and professional drivers. and the alcohol industry should commit to no longer targeting alcohol advertising to young people. however, mandatory warnings on alcoholic beverages are not supported by my group and i therefore ask you to support the amendments which remove them from the report. because it is known, and research confirms, that warnings are ineffective here. on the contrary, people must be informed as early as possible about the dangers of alcohol abuse. we must inform and we must persuade, not dictate and not prohibit. i think we've reached a point where we have to realize that we are representatives of the people and not educators of the people. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr foglietta, for his good cooperation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the european alcohol strategy is long overdue, but we would have liked it to be put forward with more courage and determination. we have heard of the horrendous cost of 125 billion euros a year, not to mention the great human suffering such as accidents, domestic violence or the 10 million children who live in families with alcohol problems. so it's important that we don't bow to the booze lobby that's putting such a massive amount of pressure on us. i am very disappointed by the announcements made by the speakers of the two large groups, which obviously do not follow the vote of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, whose core concern is to put forward warnings and also bans on advertising. we have heard from mr maaten about the dangers, about the great problem of drinking during pregnancy, about the devastating effects of fetal alcohol syndrome and the irreversible damage to the brain development of children. we know from the experience in the united states, and today experts have confirmed to us once again that warnings do not fail to have their effect, especially to remind pregnant women that drinking has devastating effects. why are we not brave enough to say that we are ready to implement transparency and use warnings as an eye-opener for the women concerned? why do we bow to the pressure of the lobbying industry? i beg you once more, most earnestly: it would be a sign of poverty if we were to sit back and not have the courage to enforce these warnings, which have proved effective, and to follow the vote of the health committee tomorrow. the same applies to advertising bans. we know, and the who has said that the european union would save 95 billion euros a year if we really passed advertising bans and warnings. we know that advertising is what drives young people to consume. i therefore urge you to have the courage to do so tomorrow. without legislative action on warning and advertising bans, the alcohol strategy will become a toothless tiger.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe must not, must not and cannot regulate everything. subsidiarity of the member states and de-bureaucratisation are the buzzwords of the day which we always use in our discussions with the citizens. the european union's competence is repeatedly called into question, but europe should, indeed must, be the engine of development. the right of initiative is a legal right of the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. that is the legal basis of the commission's proposal and we must use it. the harmful health effects of risky and increased alcohol consumption and its social and economic consequences must be curbed. a european strategy is to support member states in reducing and preventing alcohol-related harm. this includes research into the causes of what has just been said. but it also involves information, education and raising people's awareness, and these are the key points, the key points. every man is free in his choices. but he can use this freedom only if he is informed of the effects and consequences of his actions. education and training are the most important pillars. the foundation for an orderly and stable life is laid by education in the family, and that is where we must put our emphasis, and then also in school and counselling. the same is true of the conscious use of alcohol. i support the report by parliament, which in many respects improves the commission's document. i am, however, strongly opposed to the demands for warning notes. there are clear rules on the labelling of alcohol. the alcohol content is labelled. the basis of knowledge transfer must be the implementation and understanding of this information. that, ladies and gentlemen, is common knowledge! everyone must be able to use this knowledge for themselves in a responsible way. this is true of most things in life: food and drink as well as exercise, sports and fitness.
member of the commission. mr president, let me start by thanking parliament, the committee on agriculture and rural development and in particular the rapporteur, ms jeggle, for this constructive report on the milk mini-package. the package provides amendments for three legal acts. the first concerns the directive on preserved milk, in which we now allow standardisation of the protein content, totally in line with the codex standards. this meets a longstanding request from our dairy industry and exporters of milk powder, and their position vis-à-vis their competitors in third countries will clearly improve. not only industry and trade, but also milk producers – our farmers – stand to benefit because this standardisation of protein can yield a higher valorisation of the milk. furthermore, the forecasted strong demand for proteins will easily absorb the increase in the available quantities of proteins. i welcome your full support for this proposal. the second proposal concerns the common market organisation for milk and for milk products. here we propose a whole series of adaptations on which the european parliament has expressed its full support. these include the proposal to reduce the intervention price for skimmed milk powder as a mathematical result of lower protein content owing to standardisation. it contains an elimination of the price-trigger system per member state in the butter intervention system. it also contains the abolition of the national quantities for butter as an eligible criterion for aid, removal of the obsolete aid for military forces and abandoning the compulsory use of import licences. your amendment for maintaining the private storage of cream and skimmed milk powder is a little surprising because these schemes have never been used in practice and can be considered obsolete. furthermore, private storage for butter is maintained, so there is really no need to maintain the scheme for cream. concerning your amendments on the school-milk scheme, we are on the same wavelength. as we have proposed, the system will be simplified by introducing one single rate of aid. dg agri was already exploring the different possibilities of reviewing the school-milk scheme and had invited member states to provide suggestions for trying to improve the system, as well as for additional products to be covered by the scheme. the resulting changes in the system will soon be presented in the milk management committee. i hope that an agreement between parliament, the council and the commission can be found on the increased aid level for school milk, up eur 18.15 per 100 kilograms. concerning your amendment that would introduce a milk fund to finance a restructuring programme, i would underline that the proposals contained in the milk mini-package are really not of a restructuring nature. i therefore have great difficulty in correlating these basic technical and simplification measures with a perceived need to establish a new ‘milk fund’ budget line. discussions on the need for appropriate measures for the milk sector should take place in view of the upcoming health check discussions and the various discussions we will have on the future of the common agricultural policy. the third act concerns liberalisation of the drinking-milk market, where i note that we are also on the same wavelength. the suggestion to delete the 0.2% tolerance for the fat contents seems to be acceptable. you also propose that a reference be made to directive 2000/13/ec. please be informed that this directive automatically applies. so, all in all, i note with pleasure that our views are in line with one another. thank you for all your work. i look forward to our continuing discussion tonight.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the present very good and stable situation on the milk and milk products markets and the resulting increase in milk prices are now the talk of the town. the urgent rise in milk prices for farmers is fuelling the contentious debate on quotas. today, ladies and gentlemen, let me discuss the mini-milk package and first of all take this opportunity to thank you, commissioner, and your staff for the very good cooperation. you have put forward three correct, well-thought-out proposals, and parliament does not put forward many amendments to them. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. the first report presented by the commission contains amendments to the council directive on certain types of condensed milk and dried milk for human consumption. in this report the commission proposes to standardise the protein content to a minimum of 34% protein expressed as fat-free dry matter. this standardisation will enable european producers to compete better with third country producers on equal terms. this simplification of international trade is welcome and it is also in favour of the fact that this report was adopted without amendments and with only one vote against in the committee on agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal to amend the regulation on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products contains some important technical adjustments which will clearly bring about improvements. firstly, the reduction in the intervention price for skimmed milk powder by just 2.8% on average. the abolition of the trigger for intervention in butter, the abolition of the national quality class for butter, the introduction of a uniform quality definition, the abolition of sales subsidies for the armed forces and the abolition of the compulsory use of import licences. we're cutting the red tape! i am, however, also very much against the abolition of private storage for cream and skimmed milk powder. it is a 'safety net' and i think we should have this discussion in the context of the health check and not in the context of the mini-milk package. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. however, because of the importance of school milk for nutrition, the aid for products covered by this scheme should be significantly increased from eur 16,11 per 100 kg to eur 18,15 per 100 kg. the product range also needed to be expanded urgently. there are great new milk products, yogurt products and yogurt products that cater to all tastes and all desires, and with innovative school programmes we could raise the curiosity of children here and do something good for nutrition as well. the savings resulting from protein standardisation of a possible eur 117,3 million over the period 2008-2013 or any further savings within the milk market organisation should be used to accompany and support the reform in the milk sector. i am happy, commissioner, if we can discuss this at the health check. the milk programme we are proposing is intended to facilitate this task. the appropriations could be used for promotion of the milk sector, for increased nutrition education and for other accompanying measures such as the modernisation of milk production, especially in difficult conditions and in mountain areas. this second report was unanimously adopted by the committee. the third report is the report on drinking milk. this report proposes greater flexibility in the definition of drinking milk. the current regulation provides for three categories of drinking milk which can be produced and processed in the community. skimmed milk means no more than 0,5% fat, semi-skimmed milk 1,5 - 1,8% fat and whole milk at least 3,5% fat. the commission's proposal to allow the production and marketing of milk whose fat content does not correspond to the three categories mentioned above, provided that the fat content is clearly and legibly indicated on the label, is correct. this liberalization measure will not only eliminate the current national derogations but also increase consumer choice and could help to stimulate intra-community trade. in order to avoid ambiguity, the milk fat content in percentage points should be clearly visible on the packaging in direct relation to the name of the product. however, i do not think it necessary to introduce a tolerance of +/- 0.2% for the fat content, since such a system would not provide clarity but would rather make implementation more difficult. these two amendments, as well as this third report, were also adopted unanimously by the committee. i am confident that the whole mini-milk package will also find a clear majority in tomorrow's plenary vote, on the basis of the clear position of the committee on agriculture. however, i cannot accept the three amendments tabled by the alde group. the amendments tabled do not represent a substantial improvement on the report, the third amendment only deals with school milk, and then what we want, namely to offer the whole range of products better, would actually fall back under the table. i am therefore unfortunately obliged to reject this amendment. i would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on agriculture and in the group of the european people's party. i thank you for your confidence and i thank you for the good cooperation.
the commission has already done so. "milk makes you strong", and today it's on everyone's lips. milk is the oldest energy drink in the world, a very important product, and it's good that we're debating it today. the so-called 'minimum milk package', consisting of three templates, is only one - albeit very important - mosaic stone in the further simplification of eu legislation in agriculture, and in principle the commission's reform and simplification initiatives in this context are also very welcome. we know that the reform of the common agricultural policy is a long-term, continuous process and the mini-milk package presented is a step in the right direction. rome wasn't built in a day, though. you know that better than anyone. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the committee on agriculture and rural development has called for an increase from 16.11 to 18.11 euros per 100 kg. this healthy improvement is right, we have rightly demanded it. perhaps, commissioner, a school fruit programme could be seriously considered, and your colleague, commissioner kyprianou, would probably be pleased. the standardization of the protein content of milk and milk production is also welcome, because it allows european producers to compete fairly with their competitors from third countries, because competition is a primordial concern. at the same time, it is right, important and urgent that milk producers and dairies join forces even more closely to assert their interests in the market. there's also some local work to be seen. let me put forward an idea from the consumer's point of view, looking to the future. there is a worldwide increase in the demand for milk. here, in the greater asian region in particular, we can see that there is a change in lifestyle and eating habits, that is, there is an increase in demand, and prices are rising. it is sad that the increase in prices is mainly the fault of trade. but we must also be honest with the citizens. the increase in prices is partly due to the fact that the environment is not as bad as it used to be. if a liter of milk is cheaper than a liter of water today, it is no longer understandable. butter is cheaper today than it was 20 years ago. we must tell the citizens that there are improvements to be made. but the money should stay in the sector and not go into trade. a word about the quote. obviously, the quota will be in place for some time. this has been discussed here, and the reasons for this quota have been mentioned. however, the current milk quota must be exhausted in march 2015. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the comments you made, commissioner, when you were thinking out loud about even raising the quota, could also be interpreted as suggesting that it should be abolished. we should be honest and want this abolition. i thank mrs jeggle for her overall very good report. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am very grateful to mrs jeggle for her excellent work on the three milk reports. i also thank you, commissioner, for the proposals which form the basis of our discussion today. the three reports today are more technical reports. the crucial milk discussion only takes place in the context of the health check. i would like to make a few points. in the first report i think it is good that there is a standardisation of the protein content of milk powder and that there is therefore an adjustment of the market. the second report welcomes the abolition of the 27 national quality grades for butter and their replacement by uniform european-wide rules. it is also a good approach to pay more attention to the issue of school milk. it is better that we make milk and milk products palatable to our children than that we have to discuss the abuse of alcohol among young people, as we have done today. the third report includes the possibility of more flexibility in the marketing of drinking milk. commissioner, i must emphasize that the tolerance of +/- 0.2 is far too high. our dairies are 100 percent accurate with the farmers, so they also need to be able to tell the consumers exactly how much protein is in the consumer milk. milk is a valuable and healthy food. milk and milk products are part of a healthy diet, and i hope that the development for our dairy farmers will continue, that the market will develop positively. this is urgently needed so that our dairy farmers are better compensated for their work 365 days a year. the cry about the rising milk prices is unjustified. the average consumption in europe is 260 kilograms. if the consumer has to pay 10 cents more, that means 50 cents a week, and that should be what milk production in europe should be worth to us.
the next item is the joint debate on the oral question to the council on the fight against terrorism by manfred weber, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats, martine roure, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament, alexander alvaro, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, and cristiana muscardini and roberta angelilli, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats, on the fight against terrorism by manfred weber and joseph daul, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats, martine roure, on behalf of the socialist group, alexander alvaro, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, and cristiana muscardini and roberta angelilli, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats, on the fight against terrorism by manfred weber and joseph daul, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats, and martine roure, on behalf of the socialist group, alexander alvaro muscardini, on behalf of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, and cristiana muscardini, and cristiana muscardini, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european people's party, and cristiana muscardini, and cristiana muscardini, on behalf of the union, on the european parliament, on the fight against terrorism by manfred muscard, roberta angelilli, on the fight against terrorism,
i think that, with your permission, mrs buitenweg, it is not useful, because we do not know when the council is coming. we may then wait that long and not be able to debate at all. it is also starting now with the speakers of the political groups. that's why i suggest we start with that. does parliament agree to this? (parliament decided to open the debate)
a writer. the commission is not 2001-2007 are six years in which the fight against terrorism was politically motivated. the only thing that has been seen in these six years is that every measure that has been taken has been politically responded to. what i miss is the approach: how does european policy on combating terrorism develop in the global context? what role do we play? what role do we want to play in the world? do we have a concept behind it? i have not yet seen any concept or document, either from the commission or the council or, moreover, from any of the member states, proposing a short, medium or longterm strategy to combat terrorism. we have put in place measures which have short-term effects, to curb financial flows. that was great! we have put in place measures to combat terrorism in the medium term by trying to combat terrorism through biometric data in identity documents - which i personally do not think is the right thing to do, but it was the political majority's intention. in the long term, i see no progress, no movement in the area of development aid, which can be understood as security policy. i also see no movement to respect the cultures that supposedly can generate terrorism, so that we don't go out into the world and try to pass our society on to others, but that we try to be globalized within each other, to live together sensibly in a globalized world. the question is therefore: what role will europe play? the responses since september 11, 2001 have been a variety of activism: in each case, governments have tried to calm their populations after attacks by taking action at short notice, whether it is the british vehemence in pushing through data retention immediately after the tragic attacks in london, or elsewhere - for example, in the federal republic of germany - when attempts are made to enforce online searches. it lacks the concept behind it. and fundamental rights interventions, similar to those in times of emergency laws, alone will not solve the problem. if we want to fight terrorism successfully, we must define europe's role in the world in this fight, and not pursue national actionism, which is then only executed in europe.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like first of all to apologize for the slight delay in my appearance in this parliament, which was due purely and simply to a miscalculation of the traffic on the distance from the hotel to this parliament. i would also like to congratulate commissioner frattini, who is here, and to try to answer the questions put by the members, hoping to provide all the clarifications that have been requested. the recent events in london and glasgow, as well as on the spanish-portuguese border and the attack in yemen, have undoubtedly confirmed that terrorism poses a significant threat to the security of europe and to the values of our democratic societies, in particular to the rights and freedoms of european citizens. we have no doubt that the member states must therefore continue to cooperate in order to strengthen and implement measures in the field of counter-terrorism, always with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are the core values of our societies, the protection and promotion of which will contribute to the prevention of terrorism. terrorism must be fought, both at national and international level. international cooperation is an indispensable tool for effectively combating this scourge, both at national and multilateral level. we are aware that terrorism is a global threat and as such requires a global and concerted response, which necessarily involves increased flow and exchange of information, internal coordination of positions, coordination/partnership with third states, implementation of a global counter-terrorism strategy in which the united nations has a leading role, and close cooperation with a number of regional and international organisations involved in the fight against terrorism. the action taken by the european union has been stepped up since 11 september 2001, and subsequently since the horrific attacks in madrid in 2004 and london in 2005. in december 2005, the council adopted the european union counter-terrorism strategy, in which the union commits itself to combating terrorism worldwide in full respect of human rights and giving citizens the possibility to live in an area of freedom, security and justice. the european union's counter-terrorism strategy covers four lines of work: prevention, protection, prosecution and response. the presidency confirms that the council assesses the situation regarding the implementation of the eu counter-terrorism strategy and the strategy against the financing of terrorism every six months and the strategy against radicalisation and recruitment every year. the council also reviews the action plan to combat terrorism every six months and the action plan to combat radicalisation and recruitment annually. this monitoring process enables the council to identify measures that have not been adopted in the steps planned at eu level or that have not been properly implemented at member state level, and also allows it to deepen certain policies. the presidency has decided to speed up work on explosives, for example. the adoption of certain measures in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters has been slowed down by the unanimity procedure required for such matters. the adoption and implementation of counter-terrorism measures will be accelerated by the ratification of the treaty, to be approved by the intergovernmental conference on the basis of the mandate approved by the european council at its last meeting in june. as regards the need for closer cooperation between law enforcement and security intelligence services, the security services of the member states are currently working closely and efficiently in the so-called anti-terrorist group. europol has developed very effective analysis files which have been increasingly fed by the law enforcement services of the member states. there is no doubt that more needs to be done. the european parliament maintains a close direct political dialogue with the council and the commission. on 16 may 2007, a meeting took place between the president of the council, the vice-president of the commission and the president of the libe commission to review the various counter-terrorism policies and to take stock of the implementation of the eu counter-terrorism strategy. these meetings, which are held every six months, are extremely useful in reaching consensus on policies to be developed in the field of the fight against terrorism. as regards the position of the european union counter-terrorism coordinator, the secretary-general/high representative informed the member states that he was considering, in close cooperation with the presidency, how best to ensure the coordination of counter-terrorism work in the council. as regards the relationship between the european union counter-terrorism coordinator and the situation centre, sitcen does not play any role in the elaboration of the european union's counter-terrorism policy, nor in the coordination of the council's counter-terrorism work, nor does it monitor the follow-up of the council's decisions. in the field of counter-terrorism, its competence is limited to presenting to the council strategic assessments of terrorist threats based on information received from national services. in addition, it supports the eu emergency and crisis coordination mechanism for providing assistance in coordinating a european union-wide response to major crises potentially including terrorist attacks. this is a mechanical function of disseminating information, providing meeting facilities and supporting the existing decision-making mechanisms of the institutions. it's not a coordination function. however, it was on the basis of the threat assessment carried out by sitcen that the council adopted sectoral policy recommendations in several areas, such as explosives, to prevent their illicit use by terrorists. the presidency has no doubt that its efforts to combat terrorism are supported by the european citizens, who have shown, in the recent attacks, not only their solidarity with the victims of these attacks but also their desire to see a european response. in drawing up such a counter-terrorism strategy, the presidency relies on the support of its partners who contribute to the high-level dialogues, with the european parliament, in particular, playing a key role. the council attaches paramount importance to the implementation of article 6 of the treaty on european union, as well as to all the other articles of the treaties. cooperation and dialogue with third countries is one of the pillars of the european union's counter-terrorism strategy. it is only this semester that troika dialogues are scheduled to take place with russia, the united states of america, algeria and morocco, thus signalling the interest in a deeper dialogue with these countries. in addition, the european union has counter-terrorism dialogues with other countries and international organisations. as regards our mediterranean partners, the regular ad hoc euromed terrorism experts meeting will also take place, which will allow for a broad debate with our mediterranean partners on a subject of vital interest in this region, and will aim at implementing priority areas of the euro-mediterranean code of conduct on counter-terrorism. with regard to the united states of america specifically, it should also be noted that the presidency has regular talks with the united states in various instances and at various levels on counter-terrorism, where topics such as radicalisation and terrorist recruitment, including the use of the internet by extremists, terrorist threat analysis, cooperation in international fora, public-private partnerships to combat terrorism, including explosives safety, critical infrastructure protection, terrorist financing, as well as other forms of cooperation between civil and law enforcement authorities are addressed. the portuguese presidency will also organise, together with the united states, a workshop on the application of financial sanctions in the fight against terrorism. the issue of respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism was also raised by both sides on several occasions, and the presidency considered it very important to continue this dialogue, which it considered to be key for both sides. i would conclude by recalling that the consolidation of the area of freedom, security and justice, on the basis of the hague programme and the action plan, is one of the main priorities of the joint programme for the 18 months of the german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies. the fight against terrorism is one of the major challenges in this field, and the three presidencies have set themselves the objective of intensifying cooperation in this area with a view to implementing the european union's counter-terrorism strategy. i would now like to answer oral question o-0053/07 with your permission, mr president. i would also like to inform this house that the council of the european union is conducting a periodic review, as i have said, of the fight against terrorism and we are also reviewing annually the strategy and action plan to combat radicalisation and recruitment for terrorism. it also, as i said, evaluates every six months the strategy for combating the financing of this same terrorism. the council will shortly present, for the first time, the report on the implementation of the communication strategy for the media adopted in july 2006. the counter-terrorism strategy calls for a high-level meeting on the fight against terrorism to be held once a year by the presidency between the council, the commission and the european parliament. these meetings took place during the austrian and german presidencies. the role of national parliaments will be strengthened in the new treaty currently under discussion at the intergovernmental conference. the main priority is the implementation of existing measures. the council has recourse to various evaluation mechanisms, such as the evaluation by the parties of national counter-terrorism measures, the evaluation of the implementation of the european arrest warrant, the evaluation of the exchange of data between europol and the member states and between member states, etc. there are also new measures under consideration, such as the european critical infrastructure protection programme, bio-preparation measures, etc. the council organised the evaluation of the exchange of data between europol and the member states and between member states. the secretary-general, javier solana, is considering how the role can best be carried out within the general secretariat. the mandate and profile of the possible new coordinator are also being studied. like all institutions, the council is bound by article 6 of the treaty on european union, which states that the union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law. the promotion of these values is one of the european union's priorities. the commitment of member states to respect fundamental rights is also enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in addition, the member states of the european union, as members of the council of europe, are bound by the obligations arising from the european convention on human rights. the european union agency for fundamental rights shall strengthen the union's monitoring and information gathering capacity, thereby contributing to the highest possible respect for fundamental rights. the member states of the european union should ensure that the measures they adopt in the field of combating terrorism are consistent with their obligations under international law, in particular international humanitarian law, international human rights law and refugee law. the presidency believes that the fight against terrorism must be conducted with respect for human rights, since the rule of law, good governance and the protection of fundamental freedoms are tools in the fight against terrorism. this principle is at the heart of the counter-terrorism strategy which the council adopted, as you know, in december 2005. i now refer to the judgment of the court of first instance of the european communities of 12 december 2006, which has been referred to here. first, i would point out that judgment t 228/02 of 12 december 2006, the so-called wipo case, organisation of the mujahideen of the people of iran v council of the european union, does not allow the conclusion that the practice of terrorist lists adopted by the european union violates community law. the court did not rule against the adoption of lists of terrorists. the court merely considered that certain fundamental rights and guarantees, including the right of defence, the obligation to state reasons and the right to effective judicial protection, are in principle fully applicable in the context of the adoption of a community decision to freeze funds, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 2580/2001. secondly, it is public knowledge that the council has already carried out the necessary review of its procedures, in a systematic manner, with regard to the individuals and entities on the list to which regulation (ec) no 2580/2001 applies. the council adopted the following measures to implement judgment t 228/02: draws attention to the possibility of challenging the council's decision before the court of first instance of the european communities; informs that an application accompanied by supporting documentation can be submitted to the council for the consideration of the decision to include or maintain on the list, such request is assessed upon receipt; it provides all persons, groups and entities to whom it has been possible to make practical explanations of the grounds in other cases, the persons, groups and entities shall be informed by means of a notice published in the official journal of the european union; carry out an overall review of the list at least once every six months in accordance with the procedures described above, always taking into account the information received. the council also decided to set up a new working group called working partner on commum position 931 to deal with requests for inclusion and exclusion from the list and to prepare for the periodic review of the list by the council. the mandate, practical arrangements and working methods of this new working party are set out in a public document which has been approved by the council. all cases on the list to which regulation (ec) no 2580/2001 applies are treated in the same way as the previous reply. the role and powers of the institutions are laid down in the treaties. the council shall take the measures necessary to give effect to the judgments of the court of justice, as provided for in article 233 of the treaty establishing the european community. as regards parliamentary scrutiny of its decisions, the council always follows the procedures laid down in the treaties. it should be noted that the european parliament, pursuant to article 308 of the treaty establishing the european community, was consulted at the time of the adoption of regulation (ec) no 2580/2001. thank you very much for your attention. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the commission continues to be fully committed to the implementation of the eu counter-terrorism strategy, the action plan, as the council just said, endorsed in 2005. our political goal remains to strike the right balance between the fundamental right to security of citizens, which is, first of all, the right to life, and the other fundamental rights of individuals, including privacy and procedural rights. all sources indicate that the threat of new terrorist attacks continues to be high. our member states’ authorities have been able to prevent a number of attacks, for which we must be very grateful. i am talking about spain, italy, belgium, the uk and germany. yesterday the danish authorities dismantled a group of young terrorists, also of danish nationality, ready to mount a bombing attack. minister espersen said it was the most serious terrorist case in denmark. this morning, we learn that suspected terrorists have been arrested in frankfurt, and the german minister of defence said an attack was imminent. do you believe that in all these cases no results have been achieved? do you not believe that stopping the final stage of a terrorist attack is not in itself a fantastic result for europe? my answer is – yes, it is. (applause)so there is no room for complacency or letting our guard down. i would first of all like to take this very good opportunity to inform you of a package of measures which are in preparation by my services, and which will be adopted by the commission this autumn in very close cooperation with the portuguese presidency. we are working on prevention and prosecution. this package will consist of a european action plan on the security of explosives, a proposal for an amendment of the framework decision on terrorism to deal with terrorist misuse of internet, and a proposal on european passenger name record (pnr) policy. in addition, the package will contain a report on evaluation of the implementation by the member states of the framework decision on terrorism. a few words on each of these elements: the european action plan on explosives is a follow-up to the 2005 commission communication on this topic, and aims to respond to repeated calls from the european council and the council of ministers of the interior to improve the explosives situation in europe. you will no doubt recall that the attacks in madrid were committed using commercially available explosives and detonators, which prompted the call for eu action in this area. i am glad that i can report to you that a lot of good work has been done by our services together with a wide range of stakeholders, including representatives of the private sector. i have received what i think will prove to be a ground-breaking report from a public-private expert group that i have established, which contains around 50 valuable concrete recommendations to improve security of explosives, precursors and detonators across the eu. these recommendations will form the basis for the european action plan which should be adopted, as i said, before november. the measures that will be proposed in it include, for example, the setting-up of a european explosives database at europol with links to all the responsible services in member states, in addition to an early warning system so that these services are informed very quickly, for example, when explosives have been stolen or a new terrorist modus operandi is discovered from credible intelligence information. this brings me to the internet and the way this tool, which has brought amazing advantages to our world, is being misused by terrorists. we all know that terrorists enjoy the benefits of the internet just as much as ordinary citizens, for instance to plan their attacks or to disseminate messages of concrete incitement to commit terrorist attacks. the benefits of e-learning have also not escaped the attention of terrorists. you can find on internet websites, for example, detailed information and instructions of all kinds of terrorist tactics, including the production of explosives. the proposal i mentioned just now will aim at ensuring that these forms of negative and criminal behaviour will be made punishable across the eu. another element of this package of measures relates to the idea of having a european policy on pnr. reflection on details of this proposal is still ongoing, but the commission’s main intention is to ensure that each member state collects pnr records, processes them and, where appropriate, exchanges them with others. up until now, pnr has been associated mostly with negotiation aimed at ensuring that european citizen data are processed correctly by our partners and allies, in particular the united states. i think the time has come to partially change focus and devote resources to the security of the european union. the union is at least as much a potential target of a terrorist attack as the united states and the use and analysis of pnr is an important law enforcement tool to protect our citizens, who deserve the same protection as the citizens of the united states. the final element of the package consists of the second report on the implementation of the framework decision on combating terrorism. the new report will also include information on the situation in the new member states, which was not available in 2004 – and you can understand why. this brings me to the more general question raised concerning an overall comprehensive evaluation of all counter-terrorist measures adopted until now. of course, i am in favour of the principle of evaluating the effectiveness of policies. as regards justice, freedom and security policies in particular you might be aware that work is ongoing on the development of global evaluation mechanisms. i am ready to cooperate, as i have been doing in the past with parliament, and in particular with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, to carry out the evaluation of the existing measures, including the international and european agreements with our international partners. but let me make it clear that my aim is to strengthen, not to weaken, our ability to prevent and prosecute terrorism in a more effective way. as regards the exchange of information between member states and european institutions, i fully agree that this is an essential aspect of the fight against terrorism. as you know, i have been active in this area. over the past years, i have put forward a number of proposals on data protection in the third pillar, on the principle of availability and on data retention of electronic communications. unfortunately, except for data retention, it has not yet been possible to reach agreement on these proposals in the council, particularly on data protection in the third pillar. but i will continue to strive for their adoption and with the portuguese proposal we have an agreement in principle to try to get a final adoption of the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar by december. it is very often said that mutual trust is needed for effective cooperation, especially when combating terrorism. my view is that trust can be stimulated by us mainly in two ways. first, through ensuring that there is a clear and proper legal framework in place that provides confidence that information supplied will be treated in an appropriate manner and, secondly, through stimulating as many shared international experiences as possible, including joint training exercises so that people working in the field get to know and appreciate each other. concerning the situation centre (‘sitcen’), i should mention that it has certainly provided the council with a valuable strategic analysis of the terrorist threat, and i have established, thanks to cooperation with mr solana, a very good practical cooperation on this. nevertheless, i do not see a role for sitcen in the area of operational cooperation, certainly not as a coordinating tool for investigations, since its mandate is limited to dealing with non-personal information. this is rather a task for europol and eurojust. i believe these are organisations that should be better equipped to deal with such tasks. we should not forget that the large majority of our citizens – 84% in the latest eurobarometer – are strongly in favour of eu action to combat terrorists and organised crime. so, let us strengthen europol and eurojust based on that. naturally, any action we take must be in line with the fundamental rights acquis and with article 6 of the treaty. i intend to submit to the member states a questionnaire on anti-terrorist measures they have adopted, on their effectiveness and on how these relate to the human rights framework. i am ready to share with you data and results of this exercise. in conclusion, i believe that our counter-terrorist efforts clearly require joint action and the total dedication of the council, parliament and the commission. i am ready to respond once again positively to further possible invitations from this parliament and from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, as i have been doing since my appointment at the commission. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the citizens of europe are reading in the newspapers today that terrorists have been arrested in denmark who were planning to carry out specific attacks. in germany, citizens were awakened today by the news and the morning magazine that three terrorists were preparing an attack on the frankfurt airport. the citizens are afraid. there is concern. the terror in europe has caused death and suffering. the citizens expect security. it is our task as european politicians to tackle this. what is the european response? after hearing the council, i must say today that we are beset by stagnation and paralysis. i'm disappointed in you. terrorism - we know this - is a european network. the cells are working together through the internet and the different methods. the home ministers are doing their national thing and think they're in control. i am also in favour of evaluation and of putting the measures we have taken to the test now. but we also need new momentum. terror is not defeated. we need a fresh start. that is why we in the epp-ed group support the commission's initiatives. the terror is directed against our way of life. i would also like to stress that the fight against terrorism is a cultural challenge. europe, for example, stands for equality between men and women. that is why we do not want compulsory marriage in europe. anyone who forces young girls into marriage must be punished. europe is about tolerance. so we do not want hate preachers who demonize other religions. i am in favour of their expulsion from europe. i've told all preachers that no god approves of murder. i would ask that this debate today be used as a back-up for the council and, above all, for our commission, which is putting forward good proposals to create new momentum.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have heard the news today, and it has been quoted many times, from denmark and the federal republic of germany, about the arrest of terror suspects. this makes it clear that we are not talking about a theoretical problem, but a real problem. if this is the case, then the motto 'a lot helps a lot' cannot be true, but we need targeted measures, coordinated and coordinated at european level, which must prove themselves in practice and show that they are actually helping. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council and parliament. i welcome the comments made by the eu commissioner that a questionnaire should be drawn up. we need this evaluation precisely because we want to convince our citizens that counter-terrorism measures are necessary. then we also have to prove that they actually do strike. finally, we want to know what has been done so far in the fight against terrorism. we are also interested in the fact that the cia has so far refused to comment on illegal kidnappings in europe. we need answers here, too. i want to make one thing clear: secret prisons, transfers to third countries that torture; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action against the united states in the event of a nuclear accident. we must not forget the moral side of the fight against terrorism, because we must win this fight too if we are to succeed. it was discussed that the european parliament must be involved in this debate. i believe that the presidency of the council must understand that if we want acceptance, the involvement of freely elected representatives is indispensable. i would like the presidency of the council to strengthen this in the debate. you know that the european court of justice has ruled on several occasions that the eu terrorist list violates both community and international law. i welcome the statements made today by the presidency on this matter. but i am also interested in whether the annual evaluations you have mentioned will be made available to parliament and the libe committee, because we need this for our work so that we can actually assess what is happening with this terrorist list, how much control is ensured by the rule of law, how much parliamentary control is ensured, how much can be ensured that people who are wrongly on this list disappear from this list as quickly as possible. the question of the eu counter-terrorism coordinator has already been raised. we want to know what happens to this job in the future. my group is not opposed to such european coordination in principle. it can make sense if we pool competencies there, if we try to bring together what is available at national level in terms of experience. but we are also interested in what the council presidency has to say about the work of the counter-terrorism unit at european level so far. what's the experience? the question to the presidency is therefore: what conclusions do you draw from the work done so far by mr de vries?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i think we are having a rather central debate on the democratic constitution of the european union. we should look back. since september 12, 2001, there has been a so-called war on terror. nato called for the dissolution of the alliance because it had mistakenly interpreted the attacks in new york and washington as a military attack. how this alliance can be reversed, no one knows. meanwhile, a so-called war on terror is being waged around the world, for example in afghanistan. there is a gradual process of iraqification, and there are more and more violations of fundamental and civil rights. you could describe this as a permanent state of emergency. there is the eu framework decision on the fight against terrorism. within this eu framework decision on counter-terrorism, a number of points are identified which the eu member states and the eu itself are required to implement or to implement. we are currently witnessing a great deal of activism, particularly by the german minister of the interior, wolfgang schäuble. it is now calling everything possible terrorism and goes far beyond the goal of what is actually necessary. after london, the writer a. l. kennedy made a very interesting statement, which i will quote here: no one mentions that the casualty toll, as terrible as it was, would be considered quite moderate in baghdad on most days. no one mentions that blair's decision to send our troops to war for profit has put his country at risk as well. no one mentions that our actions have only increased the frequency and intensity of terrorist attacks. no one mentions that we ourselves justified the torture of prisoners by claiming that it could prevent attacks like this. no one mentions that for much of the world, we are the terrorists. this is exactly what we must avoid. that is why fundamental and civil rights must not be abolished any further.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have had dramatic incidents in madrid and london. we have seen that attacks have failed because, for example, suitcases were discovered in germany or because they were not detonated, and we have seen again these days that good police work has prevented attacks at an early stage, as is the case today in germany. this makes it clear that terrorism is a real, great danger, and it is without a doubt one of the central tasks of politics - of us - to protect people, to protect their lives. some colleagues have said today that we must always look at the frontier when we take one or another measure and consider whether it is putting civil rights, fundamental rights, at risk too much. i think the question is justified and i think we must seriously consider it, but we must not prolong this examination to the point where we are ruling out possible and necessary measures. i believe we have a responsibility, and that's the most important thing, to protect people and their lives. this is the top priority and i therefore ask the political leadership to promote the necessary measures and not to crush them or, for example, to forget to win people over to these necessary measures because there is no alternative. i do not understand any discussion paper which puts any behaviour of the americans or other countries into some kind of counterbalance. i don't understand it and i can't follow it. we have a duty to protect people's lives and to take the necessary measures, and i am grateful that the commissioner has again made some very specific proposals today. i am grateful to those who say that we must consider whether the measures are actually fulfilling their function. i am entirely in favour of those who want to examine carefully whether we need new institutions or whether existing institutions are not capable of performing these tasks. the fight against terrorism has a crucial role to play and must play it. we have, by the way, in future, when the framework agreement is implemented, ....
in writing. the commission's proposal to simplify and harmonise european legislation on the transport of dangerous goods is fully in line with the 'better regulation' approach. it was only on 31 august 2007 that i visited the traffic management centre of 7 road tunnels, including the longest tunnel in germany, and was made aware of the need for harmonisation, especially of the rules on dangerous goods transport in tunnels. not only the transport of goods in general, but also the transport of dangerous goods is growing rapidly. and it's happening globally, so even the growth can't be captured by any single mode of transport. it is therefore appropriate to include in the rules not only road and rail transport but also inland waterway transport. this will improve the chances of implementing the commodal approach in solving our transport problems. the fact that this act takes account of the specific recommendations of the united nations and at the same time respects the subsidiarity claim of the eu member states is particularly noteworthy for the understanding of our fellow citizens. by merging four 'old' directives and saving 2 000 pages of legal text, the directive is an example of how red tape is cut. member states will continue to be able to regulate or even refuse to regulate the national transport of certain dangerous goods, for reasons of national security or environmental protection, for example. as a result, citizens can expect this directive to contribute to improving both road safety and environmental safety.
in writing. i have voted in favour of the directive because it raises public awareness of the transport sector in particular. finally, transport logistics is one of the key factors for economic growth, competitiveness and quality of life in europe, and it serves to reduce environmental impact. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. i only agreed to the directive in the hope that the commission would take up the matter in the near future and settle it separately. this includes consideration of safety, environmental, transport and logistics aspects. the latest findings must be taken into account, as must the ability of the policy to set a strict framework for the use of such vehicles. for example, rules on the use of driver assistance systems such as emergency braking and lane keeping assistants, cruise controls with distance control, camera monitoring of the environment, or rules on steerable axles and the distribution of driving forces on several wheels. finally, the 60 tonnes gross tonnage limit is not automatically applicable to longliners. it should also be borne in mind that the longliners, with a total weight of 44 tonnes, are the ones that relieve the road, bring enormous benefits to the economy, traffic and the environment, and do not harm the railway, which cannot even cope with the increase in demand for transport capacity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the full extent of the perceived instability in global financial markets is not yet defined at this stage. weaknesses in the global financial system are the poor creditworthiness of borrowers in the us mortgage market and mispricing of credit risk in assets and their correctors. you can ask where basel ii was in the united states at this stage. i know it doesn't exist yet, but it would have been helpful. so far, only $120 billion of mortgages have been adjusted in the united states. this alone has triggered an interest rate adjustment shock of the known magnitude. there are about 700 billion more mortgages to be adjusted over the next two years. a high level of investor sensitivity exacerbated the dilemma. their confidence and appetite for risky investments have diminished. bank executives today admit they didn't know what they were doing. lack of investment confidence and realistic assessments are currently preventing a return to a level of normality - a process which will certainly take some time and will not stop even with professional staffing of banking supervisory bodies. trust cannot be captured statistically in mathematical formulas. transparency, on the other hand, creates and maintains trust and facilitates risk control. commissioner, you mentioned solvency ii. in the insurance sector, the risks from hedge funds and subprime mortgages have so far been rather low. and i want to keep it that way. that is why solvency ii wants to give the right approaches and incentives. alternative investments, such as hedge funds and asset-backed securities, which often also carry subprime risk, will be provided with a 45% equity capital base in the standard solvency ii series under current proposals. this may seem like a lot at first glance, but there is a clear incentive for companies to push a targeted hedge fund to disclose its investment to the investor. i think that one thing is true here: only if you have the necessary know-how yourself should you invest in riskier capital investments. the european parliament has long called for transparency in relation to specific financial products and mechanisms. the commission's response to the creation of further transparency rules for the over 9 000 existing hedge funds is overdue. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. both would support a more realistic assessment of global credit risk. in recent years, european households and economies have borrowed in many ways. the sins of borrowing at temptingly low interest rates automatically lead to imbalances between monetary and real economic performance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we europeans are investors in the market we are talking about today, with a share of almost 10%, or about 300 billion euros. we do not know exactly how much of this 300 billion is bad risk, but this 300 billion is no small sum, it is almost three times the sum of the european annual budget, and the effects of the present crisis are already being felt. in my country, germany, the largest economy in the european union, we have downward adjusted economic forecasts. we have much more expensive three-month money, which means that companies that are healthy but need interim financing can expect difficulties. i want to know what conclusions we draw from this. almost every speaker today has talked about the rating agencies. if i am interested as a citizen in the state of the debate, commissioner mccreevy, i can find the following entry on the internet with a reference to a speech you made in dublin on 5 april 2005: credit rating agencies will not be subject to eu regulation for the present, said internal market commissioner charlie mccreevy in a speech in dublin on 5 april 2005. commissioner mccreevy said he did not intend to issue specific regulation for credit rating agencies (cras) but the possibility would be kept under "continual review". he warned that he was putting the industry "on watch". when, commissioner, are we at the end of the observation phase, when are we ready to act, when are we able to shine a light on the black box of the rating agencies, to create a public scoreboard of their performance and their mistakes? we live in a system that is self-referential, ineffective and obviously empowered. i'd like an honest answer. we cannot go to the people in the next election in 2009 and say: we had a commission that has observed perfectly well for five years where the problem is.
acting president of the council. i would like to refer once again to what is the competence of the union, that is, political and legislative, and what is the competence of the member states - we cannot fail to take this into account - and i would like to tell you, as far as portugal is concerned, that the question of gender equality is an essential issue for us. i should also like to say that, at the level of the union, and in this case, in particular, at the level of the new reform treaty, which was already reflected in the constitutional treaty, we regard equality as a basic and fundamental issue in the process of european construction, which is part of the set of these fundamental principles and which will certainly be at the centre of our concerns on a permanent basis.
acting president of the council. i would like to recall that in its conclusions of 23 and 24 july 2007, the council reiterated its full support for president abbas and the government led by prime minister fayyad. the council reaffirmed its position on the events in gaza: only through reconciliation and national unity on the basis of the peace programme articulated by president abbas will it be possible to achieve the national objectives of palestine by peaceful, legal and democratic means. it also stated that the european union was opposed to any partition of the palestinian territories and confirmed that the union was ready to cooperate with all palestinian parties whose policies and actions reflect the principles of the quartet. the union resumed relations with the palestinian authority institutions. the eu has begun to provide direct financial and technical assistance to the palestinian government. in its conclusions of 23 and 24 july 2007, the council confirmed its commitment to helping to establish the institutions and the economy of the future palestinian state and stressed the need to fully develop the economy in the occupied palestinian territory, including by promoting cooperation with the private sector in palestine. the council confirmed its support for the palestinian civil police by re-mobilizing eupol copps. the commission also called on israel to provide the necessary conditions for this.
acting president of the council. i would remind you that a meeting of the quartet on the middle east peace process recently took place in lisbon. we are confident and believe that we can develop the actions within the quartet, but also within the european union, which can help to resolve the middle east peace process - the situation that has been there for many years - knowing that this is a complex and difficult situation that cannot be resolved overnight. however, we believe that the political conditions may now be in place for good progress to be made. that is the direction the portuguese presidency wants to take. the council of the european union also wants to work in this direction. we must seize the moment; we must seize the opportunity; we must seize the political contexts; i think that the european parliament should be able to take advantage of the sense of urgency that i think we can feel at this moment in the middle east peace process. with realism, but also with confidence, without wanting to let our arms down.
acting president of the council. as you know, with regard to the middle east peace process, the council has agreed on principles and political lines which it intends to uphold and believes in these principles and the lines which define its political action and intends to uphold them.
acting president of the council. the portuguese presidency is firmly committed to continuing the work successfully undertaken by the finnish and german presidencies and to implementing the conclusions on aid to trade adopted by the council on 15 may 2007. in particular, the completion of the union's trade assistance strategy in time to enable the european union to contribute to the next wto comprehensive assessment of trade assistance in november 2007. it is indeed one of the presidency's objectives to reach agreement on the european union's strategy for trade assistance at the general affairs and external relations council in october, which involves defining concrete steps towards achieving the commitment of eur 2 billion for trade-related assistance by 2010, in particular as regards the eur 1 billion for member states in response to the needs identified by developing countries. the presidency is confident that this will be achieved. the strategy also aims to contribute to the wider aid to trade agenda and to the definition of actions to be implemented. to this end, the portuguese presidency presented on 5 july 2007 a draft european union strategy for aid to trade, which is being discussed in the relevant council configurations. the draft strategy is part of the follow-up to the 2006 recommendations of the wto's trade support group.
acting president of the council. i am grateful to the honourable member for his words of encouragement and confidence. the presidency and the council will act in this matter in accordance with the practices, conditions and legislation in force in this field.
acting president of the council. since the beginning of this year, the northern dimension has been being implemented on the basis of two documents adopted at the northern dimension summit in helsinki in november 2006. the political framework document and the political declaration adopted in helsinki represent a turning point for the northern dimension in that they have turned the policy into a common policy of all the partners of the northern dimension, i.e. the european union, russia, norway and iceland. the common ownership of the new policy is a key objective and includes russia's full participation in all the structures and activities of the northern dimension. the other main participants and actors of the northern dimension, in particular the four northern regional councils and the international financial institutions, will also be involved in the process. the northern dimension now represents a permanent platform for discussing northern issues and concerns. the portuguese presidency will certainly take forward work in this area. a steering group meeting is planned for reykjavik in late september, early october. the steering group aims to provide continuity between ministerial meetings and senior officials' meetings. a meeting of senior officials is planned during the portuguese presidency, to be held on 21 november in russia. as a mediterranean country, portugal is interested in intensifying and deepening the political debate with our partners on the southern shores of the mediterranean in the context of euromed. the eu and euromed countries share common interests and face similar challenges. it is in our own interest to deepen the european union's cooperation with these countries, particularly in dealing with migration flows or social development. at the same time, work on the implementation of the new northern dimension policy will continue. as in the case of euromed, much can be achieved through concrete cooperation based on good neighbourliness, equal partnership, shared responsibility and transparency.
acting president of the council. as you know, the portuguese presidency will be organising a summit with russia during its six-month term, which will take place in mafra, a town near our capital, lisbon. we intend to address all the issues relevant to cooperation and relations between the eu and russia at this summit, whether in the economic, scientific or cultural fields, or those directly affecting people and their free movement in the european area. we consider it important and strategic to establish a mutually beneficial and mutually beneficial relationship with russia based on shared principles and values.
acting president of the council. the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, the so-called frontex agency, established by regulation (ec) no 2007/2004, and to which i have already referred in a previous intervention, aims to improve the integrated management of the external borders of the member states of the european union. the role and tasks of frontex are set out in the regulation, which takes into account the fact that member states remain responsible for the control and surveillance of the external borders. frontex's capacities have recently been strengthened by the adoption on 12 june 2007 of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a mechanism for the establishment of rapid border intervention teams. in its conclusions of june 2007, the european council welcomed the agreement reached on rapid border intervention teams, the launch of the european patrol network and the creation of a centralised toolbox of technical equipment which could be made available by and to member states. there are currently no other proposals to amend the frontex regulation. the hague programme, which strengthens freedom, security and justice, calls on the commission to present to the council an evaluation of the agency before the end of 2007. that evaluation should analyse the functions of the agency and determine whether or not the agency should deal with other aspects related to border management.
i was less concerned with the regulation than with the vision. i presented a report here in 1998 on enlargement and internal security in which i proposed a european border guard. the tampere summit took up this idea as well as the idea of a police academy . the first step in this direction was the creation of frontex. does the presidency have a vision of the further development of frontex and the intervention forces towards a genuine european border guard for the common protection of the external borders?
acting president of the council. i believe, mr president, that the presidency and the council have been clear, demanding and firm in our relations with turkey on human rights issues, both now and in the past and in the future. i think it would not be very fair if there were any doubts, reservations or scepticism on this matter. we will continue to do so in our dialogue with turkey, and in particular in the negotiations for its accession to the european union.
we have already discussed this in many question time sessions, and i would like to ask when the turkish religious law will actually be adopted. we were promised that over a year ago, and nothing has happened. this is a very specific point, not only of the accession negotiations but also of the fulfilment of the political criteria of copenhagen. a state has no right to interfere in the internal affairs of a church and arbitrarily deny it any legal status.
the next item is the report by mrs elena valenciano martínez-orozco, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the functioning of dialogues and consultations with third countries on human rights issues (a6-0302/2007).
member of the commission. madam president, the report prepared by the rapporteur, ms valenciano martínez-orozco, and the resolution before parliament address a highly important but also increasingly complex instrument of the european union’s external human rights policy. commissioner ferrero-waldner (who regrets not to be able to attend this debate today) had accordingly instructed her services to lend every support to the rapporteur in her difficult task of scrutinising the functioning of the human rights dialogues and consultations with third countries. the report adds a further building block to parliament’s remarkable work in assessing the eu toolbox on human rights, through its regular annual reports, the agnoletto report on human rights clauses, the study of the european inter-university centre on the impact of parliament’s activities in the field of human rights, as well as the study on the guidelines on torture. the report also usefully complements the regular review of the human rights dialogues and consultations undertaken by the council and by the commission. the commission would like to compliment the rapporteur and parliament on its report and the detailed analysis and recommendations devoted to the european union’s human rights dialogues and consultations. the commission takes the view that, of all human rights instruments at our disposal, it is the dialogues that probably provide the best chance to secure positive, long-term results in the development of the respect for human rights worldwide, as long as we are prepared to invest sufficient time and energy in them. we firmly believe that the european union can obtain success in advancing the human rights record of third countries only through patient work of bridge-building and persuasion, and this not just in its bilateral relations but also in the framework of multilateral bodies, as developments in the human rights council demonstrate. the great variety and number of european union human rights dialogues and consultations with third countries – which, moreover, are steadily increasing – make any global evaluation very arduous. structured dialogues, such as with china; agreement-based dialogues like those with many neighbourhood countries; consultations with like-minded partners, such as with the us and canada, or local troika dialogues with a range of countries all differ in many respects, be it their periodicity, the policy level, the kind of interlocutors, the depth of the discussions or the fact that some are combined with civil society events and others are not. far from being a shortcoming of the instrument, the commission sees such variety as proof of the dynamism and potential of the dialogue instrument and an asset that should be preserved. the eu guidelines on human rights dialogues and the cotonou (acp-eu) agreement both stress the importance of flexibility to take into account the different country situations, their evolution over time and the dynamic relationships between any given third country and the european union. therefore, while keeping common base lines and targets for the dialogue, it would not be advisable to strictly align all their modalities. for this instrument to be effective it needs to be tailor-made and able to adapt to changing circumstances. it also needs to be borne in mind that the various dialogues and consultations are in different stages of maturity. the dialogue with china or the consultations with like-minded countries have developed more or less consolidated modalities over several years and therefore allow for rather intensive, deep discussions. in other cases, such as the dialogues with neighbourhood countries, we are still polishing the instrument and are in the phase of building up the necessary confidence to allow for genuinely meaningful exchanges. we are therefore confident that, also in these cases, issues such as the desirable participation of experts from line ministries, involvement of civil society or the consideration of individual cases will eventually become possible once the exercise finds its own solid ground. finally, you can rest assured that the recommendations directed at the commission will be examined carefully, and you can count on our commitment to improve the information to parliament in order to allow for increased transparency of human rights dialogues and consultations.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very warmly for her report. i am pleased that you have taken such full account of the recommendation of my opinion to the women's committee. the role of women in human rights dialogues with third countries requires special attention when it comes to their safety and health. human rights include the right of women to choose, free from discrimination, coercion and violence, how they want to live their lives and plan their families. unfortunately, this is still not sufficiently taken into account in human rights dialogues.
i have to say, madam president, today a group of kurdish yazidis demonstrated in front of the house, and i joined them with my colleague feleknas uca and others. it is clear that the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. and that's why it's important that our human rights work is systematic and sustainable, and that it avoids certain mistakes. the first major mistake is to distinguish between large and small states in the field of human rights, to be tough on small states and to be soft on large ones with which we have important economic and strategic interests. many of our governments of all political persuasions do this, but this report avoids it. it is very courageous in its approach to china and russia, and i am grateful to mrs merkel for having made it clear in her recent visit to china and to russia some time ago, in very clear language, that one can pursue interests and still, or precisely for that reason, clearly address human rights. the second mistake we must not make is that an austrian writer, gerd-klaus kaltenbrunner, once said: there are oppressed ethnic groups and also individual victims with and without sex appeal. some are in the spotlight for a while, others are ignored. human rights must apply to everyone, whether or not they are currently receiving particular international attention. the third mistake we must avoid, and this is also crucial, is that we must not bring party politics into this issue. i therefore regret the contribution of my colleague, whom i generally respect, mr meijer. i would like to ask mr kelam and mr landsbergis, who were threatened with soviet persecution, who stood up for them in the 1980s, whether it was our group or mr meijer's group. there is a tendency to bias and to abuse human rights on a partisan basis. we should not go down this road, but the road taken by the rapporteur, valenciano martínez-orozco, with her excellent report: to make a human rights policy worthy of the great human rights tradition of this house, with objective criteria and across party lines.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 6 september 2007. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs carmen fraga estévez, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on achieving sustainability in the eu fisheries sector through the concept of maximum sustainable yield (2006/2224 (ini)) (a6-0298/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 6 september 2007.
member of the commission. mr president, i am really very pleased to be here today to discuss with you the very important issues raised in the green paper on the review of the consumer acquis. i should like to start by thanking most sincerely ms patrie, all the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and mrs wallis, who gave the opinion for the committee on legal affairs. it was excellent teamwork, with very close cooperation on this ambitious report. i am not just being courteous: it is sincere recognition of parliament’s hard work. the eight consumer protection directives under review focus on the contractual stage of the processes of sales or services provision. the eight directives in place deal, for instance, with consumer sales, distance contracts, doorstep-selling and unfair contract terms. however, they are all based on minimum harmonisation, leaving us with a patchwork of national rules built on top of the community’s standards. this regulatory fragmentation is confusing for consumers and costly for businesses. that is why, on 8 february 2007, the commission began a major consultation – a green paper on the review of the consumer acquis. the aim of the review is to simplify and adapt the existing rules by reducing regulatory fragmentation. this should, ultimately, improve consumer confidence in the internal market and allow businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to trade more easily across the eu. through this process, we have the opportunity to contribute to a truly integrated eu retail market, providing consumers with lower prices and more choice and giving a measured stimulus to growth and jobs. i am glad that the commission and the european parliament agree on a common line in approaching this very important and challenging issue. your support will be an important reference for our follow-up work and for specific proposals. after the european parliament has adopted its report on the green paper, the outcome of the consultation will be published on the health and consumer protection directorate-general website. this will take place in october. however, i can already give you an outline of the results on some key issues. first of all, the commission welcomes parliament’s support for a mixed approach to the review, consisting of a combination of horizontal instrument-regulating aspects which some different directives have in common, and maintaining specific aspects in sectoral directives. i can already inform you that this mixed approach is supported by a large majority of respondents to the green paper. as regards harmonisation, the commission welcomes parliament’s endorsement of the principle of targeted full harmonisation, that is to say, full harmonisation of key aspects of consumer protection directives, which are needed in order to achieve the internal market for businesses and for consumers. this support for full harmonisation across the consumer acquis or targeted full harmonisation is shared by the majority of respondents to the green paper, in particular by businesses and member states. nevertheless, minimum rules will remain in several areas. the commission agrees with parliament that the mutual recognition clause should apply in these areas in order to make sure that additional requirements imposed by member states do not create unjustified internal market barriers. on more specific issues, such as harmonisation of withdrawal rights across the acquis, the definition of delivery of goods or the drawing up of a combined grey and black list of unfair contract terms at eu level, the majority of respondents to the green paper have expressed views which are largely in line with the report to be voted on today. in conclusion, i would like to thank you for your commitment to helping european citizens to enjoy all the benefits of the internal market. i look forward to working with you to fulfil our common goals and to achieve a citizens’ internal market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank mrs patrie for her good cooperation. i think we could have agreed with the committee's conclusion in our view. the commission has also taken the view that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. i want to say a few key words in three minutes: first of all, it is quite right - as mrs wallis has just said - that the consistency and coherence of the various directives should be reviewed, that the common features should be set aside and systematically revised in the interests of better legislation. we do not want to see this extended to consumer contract law, and this must be coordinated very closely with the work on the common reference framework and taken into account. and what is also important to us is that it should be in full compliance with the provisions of rome i, i.e. the applicable law in international private law. as far as the individual directives are concerned, i agree in principle with the approach - and with what mrs patrie said - of minimum harmonization, which does not exclude the possibility of definitive regulation of individual areas wherever possible. but it should be done with caution, and also take into account the cultural peculiarities and the local circumstances of the people in each member state, otherwise there will be over-regulation. i would simply point out, for example, motion no 4 by the socialist group, which states that nowhere in the context of harmonization can a rule be abolished in a member state. that would mean that if we harmonize, that is to say, if we add everything together at the end, we would not get exactly what you, madam commissioner, have said quite rightly, namely a simple, understandable, manageable regulation for all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has also raised a number of individual questions, some of them very serious, on the individual directives, which require very careful examination and to which we have given detailed answers. in particular, we reject class action lawsuits. we do not want american conditions in europe. we also reject producer liability or restrictions on freedom of contract, even if it is necessary to review the terms of individual agreements or the price under the general terms of trade, or the abuse clauses. i just want to point out that an integrated approach is crucial. the consumer is not only a consumer, he is also an entrepreneur, he is an employee of a company. i wonder how much time i have, i didn't listen before, i thought three minutes, so i'm a bit fast. and this must always be seen as a whole, as the commission certainly sees it. it can't always be seen from one perspective. the consumer is not served by having comprehensive legislation which ultimately destroys the possibilities of the economy and his business. i would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would also like to thank commissioner kuneva, who has given us a very good proposal, and also our rapporteur, mrs patrie, who has done an excellent job and has brought the dossier forward on very important points, so that, despite the many points of disagreement that have certainly been in our committee, we are on the road to good legislation overall. i'm very grateful for that. what does this approach mean? it is a question of doing something for the consumer, of making the law simpler, clearer and more comprehensible. we want to advance this objective. this mixed approach is the right one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this right must of course be respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's what this is about. we have to move this forward. i am absolutely in agreement with mrs wallis when she says that we must ensure that international private law, as defined in rome i, for example, is also respected. if we do not, we will again have this patchwork of uncertainty and legal uncertainty, which we do not want. that is why my group is saying no to this strange single market clause, which is being repeatedly upheld by some in this parliament. i have not yet been able to get any of them to explain to me what they are really trying to do. i suspect that the underlying idea is that the provisions of rome i should be called into question again. we're saying no here. that is why we do not want this provision. on the subject of class actions, mr lechner, it is becoming ridiculous to say that we do not want american relations. of course we don't want them. we want class actions that help our citizens to retain their rights, but with respect for the traditions and culture that we have in the european union. we are not trying to introduce american conditions. it is not about that, but about our citizens being able to assert their right. i am very sorry that your group is still insisting on its 'no'. you really should think about where you're going. we want more clarity, so that we have less legal uncertainty, that the principles of the european union treaties can be applied without hindrance and that we respect the international agreements we have entered into. this is the basis for ensuring that consumers are really well protected, that they are aware of the rights they have and that they are also given the means to enforce those rights. if we can achieve that, mrs kuneva and mrs patrie, we have done a great deal of good and we will be able to move forward.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank mrs patrie very warmly for the really good cooperation from the beginning. i must admit that your first draft, which you presented, made it rather difficult for us to make substantive amendments. unfortunately, the situation has changed somewhat. the discussions in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the proposals which have come mainly from the epp and alde colleagues, in my view, send the wrong signal to the commission, which must first of all develop the next steps which are really concrete from the green paper. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a one-way street. we are concerned first and foremost with protecting the interests of consumers. if i may remind all of us of the recent developments, including the toy recalls, then it should have become clear to all of us that there is an urgent need for action. we voted against the report in the committee on the internal market because of what we believe is a specifically wrong direction. it was again mrs patrie who tried with great dedication to draft compromise amendments. i want to anticipate it: the vote on the recommendation to our group will depend to a large extent on the outcome of today's vote. i want to give you our neuralgic points: we do not want full harmonisation to eliminate the high-quality consumer rights that already exist in some member states. apart from certain legal questions and legal definitions, mrs gebhardt has made this clear once again. we think that minimum harmonization is more appropriate. we believe that this should not be accompanied by the principle of mutual recognition. in the case of crossborder contracts, this could ultimately result in consumers being confronted with 27 different legal systems. i think that's a little too much to ask. we also do not think that it is in the interests of consumers to introduce the principle of the country of origin indirectly. in the case of the exclusion of inadmissible contractual terms, we want the clause directive to apply also to individually negotiated clauses. we also believe that the introduction of producer liability will give a significant impetus to consumers to take advantage of the benefits of the european internal market, because they can have more confidence that their rights are actually being enforced, even against a producer in another member state. mrs wallis has referred to this situation in particular. finally, i would ask you to support our amendment no 16, in which we make it clear that we would like to have a legal and scientific evaluation of the class action instrument. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has also given its majority approval to this request. that should move us to vote in favour of the motion by a majority. in this respect, i might wish for american conditions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank mrs patrie and especially our shadow rapporteur, mr kurt lechner, whose comments i can endorse without reservation. i believe, madam commissioner, that the decision-making process and the presentation of your green paper here are a good example of good cooperation between parliament and the commission and that we need such effective cooperation elsewhere too. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of certain medicinal products. i believe that this package of measures must always be seen in context, so that we end up with a coherent and uniform law, which, as has been mentioned by other speakers before, is transparent to the consumer. however, in individual cases, transparency for consumers does not necessarily mean - as mr lechner has already said - that we are, in a sense, bringing together the highest standards from all the member states into a european batch, but we should really think at european level about the targeted strategy we need to put in the hands of the european consumer a clear and uniform european consumer legislation. the proposal for a blue flag on european consumer sites, on european seller sites may have some charm, but i believe that it would of course be even more important and even better for the internal market if it succeeded in bringing the member states forward in their national legislation along a uniform path. the question of minimum and maximum harmonization is also relevant here. i think, as other members of our group have said, that we must be careful in our reasoning. the internal market benefits from consumers being able to rely on the legal rules that they consider to be applicable. this is only possible if these legal norms are applied everywhere. i therefore welcome mrs gebhardt's statement that we need, for example, uniform definitions in many areas. i think we must be careful in other areas and also say clearly to the member states: if we want to have a single market and uniform consumer protection rules, then we cannot go along with the motto 'everyone can add a little more to it' because that is what confuses the consumer. that is why we shall vote along these lines. commissioner, the aggregated data have already been mentioned. we are very sympathetic to your activities in favour of consumers, including the class action issue. however, it must be clear that we in europe want to exclude american relations definitively, and we are very anxious that you will once again present us with the necessary detail of what you have already said in part, and we can also trust that you will exclude these american relations in europe definitively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i can assure you, mrs frassoni, that this was completely undramatic. i was asked at a press conference what my views were on certain things you have mentioned, and i said at the press conference that the principle of subsidiarity should always be examined very carefully before action is taken at european union level. i have not dealt with this question any further. (applause from the centre)
mr cappato, i have to ask you a question. we have also spoken about other matters where you have particular concerns. it is a matter of upholding general principles. we haven't discussed any details. that's why i recommend you keep your head down. i am not going to defend european law as decisively as i do. i always look to european law as the standard. i would like to leave it at that for the moment.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer this question.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to make a statement from the commission before the vote. as regards the measures for the implementation of the decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing the specific programme on drug prevention and information for 2007-2013, the commission undertakes, as an exceptional measure, to forward as soon as possible to the chairman of the competent parliamentary committee the draft annual work programme relating to the abovementioned specific programme and its drafts via the comitology register. the commission will inform parliament as soon as possible of any amendments to the texts following the meetings of the committees.
i would like to thank commissioner reding. in the absence of a proposal to reject the common position and of amendments, i declare the common position adopted.
i would like to thank mr libicki. that will be noted.
a writer. the commission is not west africa was once a region where many things were going well. today sierra leone has become synonymous with the particular horrors that have been inflicted on us in africa in these past years. it is therefore our duty to ensure that the forthcoming elections will not only help to restore democracy but, more importantly, justice and the rule of law. this includes condemning the gigantic crimes that have occurred in this country. it is not the first time that the european parliament has been involved in a debate on the future of the community. i believe that the investigation of these crimes must not fail because of money. we europeans have a duty here, and yet i think the questions that have been asked here are justified. it shows that we're not going to get anywhere with ad hoc courts in the long run. it shows that in the long run we need a uniform, universal jurisdiction for such criminal dictators. but that's not going to help us right now. the first thing to do is to press ahead with the proceedings that have been initiated and, above all, with the conviction of mr taylor, because this is a warning signal to criminals who are committing crimes against humanity today and possibly in the future. i would like to mention the example of the dictator of zimbabwe, mr mugabe. mr mugabe must see what can happen to him if he continues his terrible crimes. that is why we need uniform standards and stable institutions against such major crimes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my group had decided to call for a rollcall vote. it seems that a technical error by a new employee has not reached you. i ask you to accept this request for a roll-call vote. something went wrong technically.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 6 september 2007.
i am not going to go into detail. it is with great sadness that we have learned of the death of our former colleague lord nicholas bethell, who was twice a member of the european parliament, from 1975 to 1994 and from 1999 to 2003. nicholas bethell died on september 8 at the age of 69 after a long and courageous battle with parkinson's disease. during his many years as a member of the european parliament, nicholas bethell was a distinguished vice-president of the then political affairs committee. he was a leader and energetic advocate of many causes: the liberalisation of air transport, the eu membership of cyprus and the creation of the sakharov prize, which over the years has become a moral support for many people worldwide in their struggle against oppression. let me say a few words about that. armed with his masterful knowledge of the russian language and at considerable personal risk, nicholas bethell travelled to the soviet union several times, where he found friends in numerous leading dissidents: alexander solzhenitsyn, andrei sakharov, anatoli shcharanski or alexander ginsburg. he debated with them, interviewed them, advocated the release of those of them who were in prison, and generally fought for the freedom of peoples and for justice. nicholas bethell translated two books by alexander solzhenitsyn into english. he brought anatoly shcharansky and elena bonner, sakharov's widow, to the european parliament - not once, but several times. nicholas bethell was a colleague and a friend who convinced by his actions and set standards. we want to remember him with gratitude. ladies and gentlemen, i have just learned that two spanish soldiers were killed by a land mine in afghanistan and that others - also spanish - were seriously injured. i ask you to remember lord bethell and all the victims of terrorism in silence. (parliament adopted the resolution) thank you. thank you. i am not going to go into detail. we have taken note of the demonstrations for democracy and freedom in burma/myanmar. i am sure i can express our solidarity and sympathy on behalf of all of you. this is particularly true of aung san suu kyi, a sakharov prize laureate of the european parliament who has been under house arrest for many years. the european parliament expresses its hope that the time may come when we welcome aung san suu kyi here in the european parliament and we call on the myanmar authorities to release immediately all those arrested and to allow them the right to demonstrate freely. (applause from the centre)
mr clay's colleague! i have heard what you have said, but i cannot comment on the substance of the action you are claiming. it is not the right time to tell parliament about this, but it must be done in a different way so that we can exchange views on this matter.
i would like to inform you that on tuesday 25 september i will be signing, together with the president of the council, four acts adopted under the codecision procedure in accordance with rule 68 of the rules of procedure. the titles of these acts are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 20 september 2007, in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed to you. i have the following amendments: monday: no change. tuesday: the socialist group requests that the report by mr zatloukal on efficiency and fairness in european education and training systems be deferred from tuesday evening to wednesday evening and that it be dealt with after mrs descamps' report.
i am sure that was the opinion on the motion. (parliament adopted the resolution) the report by mr zatloukal will be deferred to the wednesday night sitting. wednesday:the green group, the confederal group of the european united left and the liberal group ask that a statement by the council and the commission on the situation in myanmar be placed on the agenda for wednesday afternoon, with motions for resolutions.
thank you very much, mr swoboda. that is exactly what i would suggest. first, we vote on whether to hold the debate. if there is a 'yes' vote on this debate, then we shall come to the question of how we are going to proceed with the resolution. this is a logical and logical approach. can we do this as a matter of procedure? (parliament adopted the resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we were not aware of this, but the liberal group may want a resolution and if so, not until the next part-session. this is a new situation. i mean, everyone can live with that. the liberal group's motion, which i believe you should put to the vote now, is therefore as follows: if the groups agree on a resolution, then next week. that does not mean that we have reached an agreement now, but that we should reach an agreement next week. we can all live with that.
we must first decide whether we want a resolution and, if so, when we will adopt it.
the proposal i would like to make to you is that we first vote on whether we want a resolution. if there is a 'yes' vote, we will decide whether to have this resolution this week or during the october partsession.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the subject naturally requires a resolution by the european parliament. we have adopted resolutions - sometimes very comprehensive - on many other occasions which may not have the same degree of urgency. there is a very concrete reason for this, there is a very significant change in the situation in this country that we have been following for a long time. it has already been made clear that the opposition leader has been under house arrest for many years and has been awarded our sakharov prize but has not yet been handed it. we must therefore respond to these new developments with a resolution. but it doesn't have to be this wednesday. we have the debate on wednesday and i suggest that we vote on a resolution at the next part-session.
we shall now vote on whether we want a resolution and then in a second vote on when we will adopt it. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
we have already decided on a resolution. we are not going to vote for the motion for a resolution. (parliament adopted the resolution) i would ask that question time not start at 5.30 p.m. but at 6 p.m. so that we have more time for the debate, but that we allow the usual duration for question time, namely one and a half hours, from 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. (parliament adopted the resolution) thursday: no change meeting of 10 and 11 octoberwednesday: the socialist group requests that the joint debate on the reports by mrs bowles and mrs van den burg on community statistics be postponed until the october part-session in strasbourg.
i shall put to the vote the motion for a postponement to the october partsession. (parliament adopted the resolution) thursday:no change in working hours further changes to the work programme: see minutes.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions under rule 144 of the rules of procedure.
we know your revolutionary spirit, dear colleague marco pannella. but we also have to follow our own rules, and they give us a minute. they spoke for almost two minutes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. angela merkel received the dalai lama at the chancellery yesterday. the chinese government has asked mrs merkel not to meet the dalai lama as part of its strategy of isolating him internationally. beijing has already asked the german government on several occasions to ban him from entering the country. this shameless interference is all the more remarkable when you consider that china is going to be the benevolent host of the olympic games next year. this is a very serious form of pressure, and it is not only directed against the tibetan people, but also against human rights as a whole. that is why i support the chinese candidates for this year's sakharov prize. i seriously wonder what we have to look forward to next year and what must happen to prevent europe from selling its value system too easily to economic interests. the more encouraging is yesterday's action, mrs merkel! (applause from the centre)
- i'm not going to. since you have addressed me personally, i would like to say that the principles of the european union are based on our having a dialogue with each other, on our having a dialogue. i spoke of reconciliation in my speech, and no one in poland could criticize any of the sentences of my speech, because it was a speech of reconciliation and your positions are also represented. i have to tell you, i don't understand your criticism of the fact that you talk to people and thereby also exercise conviction. i ask you for fairness and to contribute to reconciliation in europe! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am expressly referring to the rules of procedure. i'm sorry you reacted on your own. i can understand that, but i find it absolutely unacceptable that the president of this house should have to defend himself against such an unwarranted and inappropriate attack. i therefore hope, on behalf of all the sensible members of this house, that in this speech and in other speeches you have made so far you have represented the dignity of this house in a first-class manner and have in every respect defended the fundamental values of the european union with dignity. i thank you for that and for that speech in poland. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank mr martin schulz very much. i am moved when i hear that from the chairman of a large group. thank you very much.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i really want to look at this resolution which was adopted by the slovak parliament last thursday. this resolution is not in the european spirit, it is not in the spirit of reconciliation and understanding, but it speaks of the fact that the decrees which came into force after the second world war, the beneš decrees, must still be applied in full today. the hungarian and german minorities are equated here with traitors and enemies. i would like to point out that we as the european parliament - and i have already written to you, mr president - should send a clear signal that this is not the spirit that should shape us in europe, but that we should work together on the european house and build a common future. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not like to speak on this subject, but i have a request to all the members involved, whether it be mr ferber or mr manka, who is a member of my group. what has happened in the last few weeks in some member states of the european union and in their parliaments is worrying. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. the question therefore arises: what are we doing as the european parliament to calm the situation? my approach is that we don't do textual exegesis - i didn't find the phrasing you used in the text, by the way - but we do something else: the task of the european parliament could be to take a different step, not to stir up tensions by means of controversial debates, but to apply the same approaches to the problem as we use in our daily work, namely to say that the task of this parliament, 60 years after the end of the war, is not to invoke the spirit of 1945, but to promote cooperation in 2007. we can do this, for example, through dialogue which does not have to take place here in the plenary. i therefore appeal to all my colleagues in my group, in your group and in all the other groups, to try to calm the situation rather than to inflame it with press-related contributions - that is what is at stake!
we're not having a debate here! mr markus ferber, it is not intended that one can answer the other. (interruption of the debate)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you to pay attention to what this item on the agenda means. if mr schulz thinks he has to comment on every second or third word, that is his problem. but if he is interested in having a debate here, i would be glad if he would support a proposal from our group to have a debate on this subject in this house at the next opportunity. (interchange with microphone off)
i hope this is resolved amicably.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. like my colleague and friend milan horáček, i wanted to address an event from yesterday. german chancellor angela merkel was the first german head of government to receive the dalai lama in berlin. she has stood firm despite all the verbal attacks and personal smears from the chinese. it has reaffirmed its commitment to support the tibetan people in their quest for cultural and religious identity and for genuine autonomy. our european parliament, the voice of human rights worldwide, also supports the path of non-violence that the dalai lama has consistently followed. the european union as a whole should learn from yesterday's example. it is intended to encourage governments in our member states to never bow to china, even under economic and political pressure. (applause from the centre)
that concludes this item.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs thomsen on her balanced report. i should like to briefly outline the main points of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. the committee of the regions expressly welcomes the commission's roadmap for renewable energy sources as an important contribution to the sustainable development of europe. the development of renewable energy sources is necessary. europe must secure its energy supply and reduce its dependence on foreign imports. on the other hand, we must meet our climate commitments. bioenergy will also be central to employment and the economy in europe's rural areas in the energy mix of the future. however, the promotion of bioenergy must not lead to distortions of competition. the area-freeze scheme no longer fits into the system and should be abolished, also because of the shortage of land due to competition between food production and renewable raw materials. in its opinion on the report by mr lang on the eu strategy for biomass and biofuels, our committee had already attached particular importance to the introduction of an eu certification system. on the one hand, it is necessary to avoid additional administrative burdens for local producers by linking existing schemes, for example, to cross compliance. at the same time, biofuels imported from third countries should also be certified according to strict ecological criteria in order to ensure a positive environmental impact. in the case of the promotion of biofuels, the available funds shall not be allocated as a priority to research into second generation biofuels. there is also a significant research need for first generation biofuels. decentralised approaches to biofuel production should be given appropriate consideration in research and development programmes, given their many advantages.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, britta thomsen, very much. that's a good report! i hope that it will be adopted on wednesday with a similarly large majority as in the committee, because despite the somewhat critical words of mr chichester, we have achieved a very large, almost unanimous majority in the committee for this report. so this report is good and also important and necessary. they know that in implementing the spring summit decisions - to achieve 20% renewable energy by 2020 - the commission is currently preparing the framework directive. the commissioner has spoken about this and it is good to hear that he has made it clear that the thomsen report should play a role in this respect. what is the point now, and what really matters? firstly, we have successful policies, particularly for electricity, but also for biofuels. so it is important that these successful directives be taken up and, if possible, strengthened and improved, as the thomsen report says. secondly, we must implement what the commissioner promised us in the plenary last year, namely to take up the heating and cooling sector, in other words heating and cooling, in order to minimise the deficits we have in this sector and to achieve better market penetration in this sector. so far, we have a clear sectoral approach. i think we must not lose this sectoral approach. it is also extremely important that the national action plans contain really clear sectoral objectives, binding objectives, so that a broad expansion of the various technologies can also take place here. the question is how the 20% is distributed among the member states. this means that there must be a fair distribution of the burden, or rather of the opportunities, based on the potential and on what has already been done, what is already there in the countries. so, we really need to be very clear here. i am glad that the report makes it very clear that this is only about renewable energy and not about low-carbon energy. i also thank commissioner piebalgs once again for clarifying that this is really about renewable energy. i think you have a great responsibility in the commission, commissioner. we have seen that a new boost has really happened after the electricity directive was presented. i hope the same will happen after the framework directive, which will hopefully be coming this year.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european council, chaired by our chancellor angela merkel, decided in march 2007 that 20% of total energy consumption should come from renewable energy sources by 2020. the benefits are clear: lower co2 emissions, less dependence on energy imports from unstable states, opportunities for growth and employment, especially in rural areas. the summit decision has now been taken to implement these objectives. the following points are particularly important: the commission must have the necessary powers and means to ensure that the summit's objectives are respected by the individual member states. if we want to achieve a 20% share of renewable energy in total energy consumption, each member state must do its part. however, as mentioned in paragraph 9 of the report, each member state must be free to choose the renewable energy sources most appropriate to its circumstances in each sector. improving energy efficiency is also crucial. we can only achieve 20% renewable energy if we improve energy efficiency overall. the potential is enormous, and many innovative technologies are already on the market, particularly in the field of building insulation and energy-saving electrical appliances. the use of renewable energy for heating and cooling also needs to be promoted much more than before. 40% of all energy in the eu is used in buildings. there is a huge potential for the use of renewable energy. modern building planning and energy-oriented new housing developments can help to ensure that renewable energies can meet the entire energy demand in buildings. biomass is also a renewable energy source which needs to be further developed because of its versatility and its basic load capacity. however, it must be ensured that biomass production is sustainable and does not compete with food production. this requires the development of internationally recognised sustainability standards for the cultivation of biomass, as required in paragraph 57 of the report. the overall climate and energy balance of biomass production must also be positive. it is also important to consider the contribution of nuclear energy to climate protection. we cannot do without nuclear energy as a low-emission technology at the moment. research into renewable energy sources must also be given high priority in the eu. technological developments in this area are a crucial step towards a sustainable energy supply. in particular, the further development of energy storage from renewable energy sources, such as hydrogen technology, needs to be further promoted and advanced. i am very much looking forward to the commission's proposals at the end of this year. i hope that it will take up many of the demands of parliament.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for presenting this project, this report. i think it is important to remember that we must look at energy policy in terms of different objectives, namely: how do we get security of supply, how do we get environmentally friendly design, and how do we also get low prices? if we take these three factors into account in each of these debates, it will be fairly quickly apparent that renewables are certainly part of the future of energy and play a role, probably an important role, but that this sector alone will not be able to solve the problem of energy supply, neither of pricing nor of environmental trends nor of security of supply. it is therefore important to ask the questions which have already been raised in various contributions today, such as how we can make the most economic use of renewable energy sources. this question of the economically wise use of resources is reasonable. we must think about where the euro can be used most effectively and we must not promote solar energy where there are no favourable conditions. we must consider whether we are really making progress with decisions and percentages, with binding targets, or whether it is not wiser to promote subsidiarity and support initiatives which take very different paths in different sectors in different member states but which also lead to a similar objective. it is part of the process of identifying the disadvantages of renewable energy sources. we have already had debates on biofuels today, but six months ago they were not even discussed. we have debates about wind power and its harms. we have problems in my country that there is still enough space to build wind power. this does not mean saying no to renewable energy, but it does mean a differentiated debate and a differentiated response, because it is wise in the end not to have policies that create false expectations that cannot be met, but rather to have policies that create expectations that can then be eliminated step by step. i thank the commission for its very open and differentiated approach!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we can all be satisfied with the overall result of the third railway package tonight. as rapporteur for the revision of community law on railway development, i am not particularly satisfied, but when we look at the results we have achieved in the area of passenger rights, in particular compensation for train delays and the pan-european certification of train drivers, we can be satisfied overall. i want to start by talking about my own report. the welcome result is that from 1 january 2010 national rail networks will have to be opened to crossborder passenger services from all member states by all railway undertakings, whether public or private. this will finally create the european internal market for crossborder passenger transport and the possibility of increased offers by the most diverse railway companies for the benefit of railway customers. we expect railway companies to take advantage of these new opportunities and to offer customer-friendly and competitive offers, especially in relation to air travel. if we succeed, we shall have the chance of reviving rail transport in cross-border rail transport. and here i join, so to speak, the debate we have just had: we have a chance to reduce the environmental impact within the european union. the unfortunate result of the conciliation procedure is that the opening of national rail networks to national rail traffic has not been achieved despite the council's strong opposition, and thus the european single market for rail transport remains incomplete. but frankly, the reason for this is the vote we ourselves had in this parliament on 18 january of this year. we as members of parliament did indeed vote with a majority in favour of opening up the networks, including national railways, but unfortunately we did not reach the required majority of 393 votes on that thursday. however, the european parliament has reached agreement in the conciliation procedure that the new directive requires the european commission to submit a report by 31 december 2012, including proposals for further opening up the passenger transport market. as regards the minutes, i would ask vice-president barrot to reiterate on behalf of the commission his commitment to present a report by 31 december 2012 and to take further steps towards the opening up of rail transport. parliament and the council also agreed that we should restrict the opening of the networks to crossborder traffic if this would jeopardise the economic balance of public and regional passenger transport. however, this risk need not be a protectionist issue where a railway wishes to protect itself from competition, but this restriction is only possible if a national governmental authority confirms the risk to regional passenger transport on the basis of an objective economic analysis. unfortunately, another restriction has crept in during the procedure, namely the restriction on member states' ability to levy a charge in favour of public passenger and local transport. however, parliament has succeeded in limiting this levy to the extent that the revenue from such a levy cannot exceed what is actually necessary for the provision of the public service. i sincerely hope that - apart from one country, and i hope that it is not - the member states will never actually take up this option of suspending the opening of the network. i hope that the member states will implement this directive swiftly and that here in europe more and more crossborder passenger transport will be offered and that citizens will be given the opportunity to use rail as an alternative to air transport. i now have the opportunity to make a few comments on behalf of my colleague, mrs jeggle. she's unable to do so because she's ill. i would like to thank mr savary for the good cooperation between the shadow rapporteurs on the third railway package and i am very pleased with the result on the train driving licence. we have succeeded in achieving a common european train driving licence, because what will help us to open up the networks when trains have to stop at the borders to exchange train drivers? but we want a single european market. we want european freight trains - the networks are already open - and soon also cross-border passenger trains to run without national borders playing any role, because we want rail transport to be effective. the introduction of a european train driving licence is therefore of central importance. we can be really satisfied with our legislation here. however, i would point out that this is not just about train drivers, but about all those responsible for safety on the train. you know, just as an airplane cannot take off if there are not enough flight attendants, because they are responsible for the safety of the passengers in an emergency, so there are the pilot and other persons. we are not talking about the chef in the bistro, but about the people in the railway industry who, as drivers or in other capacities, are responsible for the safety of passengers. in this connection, we have worked with the rapporteur to ensure that the commission commits itself to submitting a report within 30 months of the entry into force of the directive, which will examine the extent to which this additional staff can actually be certified in a uniform manner at european level, so that there is no security gap in this matter of crossborder trains. the driver and other staff must be reasonably trained. we are glad that this licence is also a step towards the mobility of train drivers, because if you have a european licence you can change jobs as you please within the european union. however, we are fair, and that is why we have agreed that if someone who has been trained by one railway company voluntarily goes to another railway company, the training company must be compensated for the training costs. i can say on behalf of my colleague elisabeth jeggle that we are very satisfied with the result. it was a good cooperation and mrs jeggle also asks the house to approve the package as a whole.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. as one of the initiators of the 'one million for disability' petition, i have been motivating citizens across europe to actively advocate for people with disabilities. the signatures will be handed over to the presidents of the european commission and the european parliament at the beginning of october, so that they too can become stronger advocates of a social europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a very substantial part of this regulation focuses on the rights and obligations of people with reduced mobility, whether due to age, disability or other circumstances, and, most notably, of any accompanying persons. they have the same right to freedom of movement, freedom of choice and non-discrimination as all other citizens. it is a great success of the european parliament that this part of the railway package will apply not only to cross-border but also to national transport. this will enhance the user rights of all rail passengers and improve the quality and efficiency of rail passenger services. the right to information on transport services is thus a right of every traveller, both before and during the journey. gradual accessibility to all structures and vehicles will be established for people with reduced mobility. the rights to compensation and assistance in the event of delays, missed connections or train failures are strengthened, and the lack of a complaints procedure creates trust between passengers and service providers. all this will increase the incentives to use the railway. unfortunately, there is a possibility for member states to make use of temporary exceptions, but we are on a good and safe track with the result. the member states can now demonstrate how serious they were in march this year when they signed the un charter for persons with disabilities. i expect my home country germany to lead by example in implementing the rights of disabled people. i thank the rapporteurs and all the negotiators in the conciliation procedure and recommend that they approve.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their work - not an easy one. finally, the third railway package is the continuation of a long process of opening up the european railway sector to competition and harmonising standards in europe. i am particularly pleased, as are many of the previous speakers, with the proposal for a regulation on passenger rights and obligations. the first european-wide uniform rules to strengthen passenger rights will be introduced here. the regulation - and my colleague mr koch has done this very well - covers, among other things, the handicapped-friendly design of access to trains, stations and railways. it provides for the assumption of liability in the event of accidents and deaths. it provides for the establishment of a system of compensation for delayed and cancelled trains. it is high time that minimum rights were established not only for air passengers but also for railway workers. at first sight, this system appears to be a burden on railway undertakings. the granting of minimum rights ultimately increases the attractiveness of the railway. the strengthening of passenger rights will make a significant contribution to the promotion of rail transport, which will result in an increase in the overall share of transport. the railways are to become a real alternative to air travel in europe. this is important in the face of the climate problem. the commission proposal envisaged the introduction of passenger rights only in international transport. i am glad that we have now succeeded in extending the scope of application to all rail passengers, particularly, of course, to long-distance national transport, and not just to cross-border passengers. it is incomprehensible that a train driver travelling from cologne to brussels enjoys the rights of a passenger, but a person taking the train from frankfurt to cologne is not entitled to those rights! it is a pity that we have to be satisfied with these long possible transitional periods of fifteen years in total for the enforcement of these rights as a compromise. the consumer does not understand that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to yesterday's plenary session and the one-minute speeches made at the beginning of the plenary session. during these one-minute speeches, an incident occurred. a polish colleague - i do not know to which group he belongs - has criticised our president in this house in an inappropriate way. i defended the president of our house - from my point of view this was necessary. i had the impression that many colleagues in this house shared my assessment. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i'm sorry i don't have the right to do that, but i don't comment on everything. i have therefore insulted mr ferber in the general agitated situation with two german expressions which i do not wish to repeat here and which are not correct. i therefore withdraw this with an expression of regret and would be grateful if you would convey to mr ferber that he would like to accept my apology and that i consider him to be a very funny colleague. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to give a brief overview of the last reform. many sugar beet growers ask why a reform of this market organization, which has proved its worth over decades, is necessary at all. there are two main reasons why this reform was and is necessary. the first is that, a few years ago, the arms initiative decided that from 2009 onwards, the poorest countries would be allowed to supply europe with everything but arms. this also affects the sugar sector. the second reason is that there is a wto decision and we have to reduce surpluses. this means that we have to take over six million tons of sugar out of production. commissioner, we made proposals in parliament in 2005, and you have just said that the restructuring fund has not met our expectations. today i would like to say: if the commission and the council had followed parliament's proposals better in 2005, it is likely that more sugar would have been returned voluntarily. we now have the opportunity to make adjustments to improve incentives. i can only ask the commission and the council to follow the proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs batzeli, for the report she has presented. the committee on agriculture has largely followed these proposals with minor corrections and i am convinced that if the commission follows these proposals, the incentives will be increased to such an extent that much larger quantities of sugar will be returned voluntarily. i would like to point out, madam commissioner, that there are many members of the committee on agriculture who are very close to the sugar beet growers. if the wishes expressed here are fulfilled, i believe that this reform will be a success.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the sugar market regulation is not a piece of jewelry for the commission and the council! mr deß has already said that if you had listened a little more to parliament's proposals, some of the problems would not have occurred. if you have an instrument like the quota, you must use it and not threaten to cut it for 2010, you must cut it linearly or in stages and compensate for it. your way of doing this over price was doomed to fail because you first increased the quota by one million tonnes by converting c sugar into quota sugar. furthermore, the financing by consumers through the price has led to the sugar industry not being interested in restructuring. export subsidies have not been radically abolished. that would have been necessary too. the mistakes are there, and they're not being corrected now. the restructuring fund and the restructuring aid are essentially closures. they've got the regions against them, the unions, the farmers. the commission has not taken up the diversification requested by parliament to ensure the socio-ecological development of the regions. all these mistakes are not being corrected now. that's why we're treating the wrong symptoms. there is another important point: they now want to limit the restructuring aid to farmers to 10%. it was the case that the countries could charge higher. we are making another proposal here and i hope that parliament will implement it with the instrument of referral back this time. because you have not fulfilled the promises you made to us at the last vote, but have now taken them back.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the commission statement on dangerous toys from china. two commissioners will now take the floor.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think that we have already achieved very high safety standards for products in the european union. i agree with mr verheugen that we can never achieve 100% security. but our goal in europe must be to have the highest possible level of security, and we have not yet achieved that goal. we have a lot of work to do to make this a reality. these recalls, which have been made - not just by mattel, but by others in recent months - have shown that there is a very great need for action in the european union to ensure that the safety of products is at the highest level possible. three months before christmas, we have a special eye on toys that must be very safe. our children are our future, so we must be very careful about safety. we are therefore very angry that it has taken so long for the european commission to finally launch a review of the toy directive. i hope that it will come true that we will have the amendment of this directive by the end of this year or before the end of this year so that we can really bring it up to date. i am also very curious to see what proposals will be put forward, because it is still very unclear. there is another point which is very important, namely the enforcement of this right. the commissioners have also raised this issue, and this too is a problem. i had the opportunity on monday to go to a certification body and look at this and ask what the problems are. a very clear problem that has been identified is that the ce mark does not deliver what it promises. we must work on this, and that is why we are calling for additional safety labelling, especially for toys, so that this safety can also be guaranteed. it is not enough to carry out checks when the products are already in the store, but this must be done beforehand. we need these controls first, and they must be mandatory where necessary, and this is particularly true of toys. third and lastly, the rapex system needs to be improved. if we look at the figures, we see that the member states are very different in their activities in this area. i think we must call on the member states to improve and develop this system so that we can really take the necessary action to withdraw products and also ban them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. controls and a new forest of characters that goes past the core problem! control is good, laws are better! we need no more false security and no more pseudo-political actionism, but better laws and better standards. cmr substances, carcinogens, reproductive defects and genetic modification have not lost their place in children's toys. toys must not become a poison trap for children. poison is not for children, not even in small quantities. mr verheugen, i find it intolerable that you are using your scolding of producers and consumers to distract attention from your own failure. we know that the legal basis, the toy directive, has not been able to protect children from toxic toys for years. the commission knows this. in your own report from 2004, you can read that you are being dealt a loud slap in the face. it says in black and white that the toy directive has failed. since 2001 we have been calling for the directive to be revised, and it has been repeatedly put on the backburner. it is also not true to say that lead is banned in toys. lead is not prohibited per se under the toy directive! or can the commission explain why it did not initiate a legal withdrawal but a voluntary withdrawal by the toy manufacturers? so we can no longer fool the consumer into thinking that we have the problem under control. we need better protection. this must be clear and it must mean that we have to change the foundation and replace the lack of standards with clear prohibitions and bans. it is absurd that carcinogens should be allowed to fall into the hands of children. we can't get better controls to help us. that is why we must tighten up the laws and then implement better controls. we can't let our children poison themselves playing!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i took the liberty of googling "toys" and "china". i would recommend that you all do that for once. you'll get a whole list of suppliers, of chinese suppliers and manufacturers and see what you can buy there. 80% of the toys from china are on the commission's website, and vice versa: the european market imports 80% of the toys from china. when you put these two numbers together, you can get a rough idea of the dimension we're dealing with. on the one hand, of course, we must recognize that we are now operating internationally in a context in which the world economy has grown together and european industry and, in some cases, jobs are naturally dependent on chinese supplies. on the other hand, it must also be said that such a global networking in the field of economics only works if there is trust. this trust is based on certain aspects which must be respected. trust grows when you have fair competition. fair competition is achieved when there is assurance from the chinese side, but also from the producers and the local supplier industry, that they are actually able and have the know-how to carry out all the necessary controls for exporting the products to europe according to the criteria of the european market. but of course, trust will only grow and fair competition can only come about if producers, and here in particular the chinese state, ensure that to the same extent as we have environmental, social and labour standards, these are also gradually introduced on the chinese side, otherwise we have the conditions of unfair competition. unfair competition always affects the control possibilities of that country. and you can see that because all the data shows that most of the problems we have with dangerous toys from china are not necessarily from the big brand manufacturers, but from those who are stuck in insecure supply chains. in this respect, this control function needs to be strengthened by the chinese side. the commissioner, of course, has to put our house in order, and i think there is still a lot of damage on the european side. i do not want to repeat what colleagues have already said, but just to mention a few points concerning the committee on international trade, namely the liability of european importers, border controls, the need to introduce legal withdrawal measures, and the question of when import bans and under what conditions import restrictions generally take effect. we will soon have a difficulty, at least in certain sectors, such as textiles, because the safeguards we have at present are running out. we shall then have additional problems in this sector at least.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the importance which the commission attaches to this subject today. the fact that two commissioners have come to the floor clearly shows that the commission is finally clear that action is needed here. however, the fact that the responsibility of the member states and the manufacturer is the main point of reference leaves the statements in doubt. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. that's the wrong answer to the challenges of globalization. but still, that alone is not enough. the revision of the toy directive is urgent. and when you consider that this is the fourth recall since november 2006, you have questions like, who is actually tracking these recalls? what is the situation with the sanctions in the member states and with the liability of importers and producers? we urgently need a revision of the toy directive that is truly responsive to the new challenges. this directive is not a response to these new challenges. we have to deal with issues like the right to sue. you have rightly said, mr verheugen, that consumers must be made aware that quality is also important and that prices and quality must be in line with this. but then, of course, i also wonder why consumers do not have more options, such as a european court of justice, to insist that something be changed on the cost side. i would like to comment on the issue of ce marking. we have discussed this at length and we know the shortcomings and limitations of this ce marking. i think it is wrong to suggest to consumers that the ce marking is a clear signal of the safety of a product. the ce marking is primarily a statement of conformity with european directives. these are certain parts of a product, this can be a whole product, but it says nothing about the safety of the product as a whole. we have a shortcoming here which urgently needs to be addressed in the new toy directive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that's a very unemotional discussion this morning. i am very pleased about that, but it is a very difficult subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the market surveillance authorities and you, commissioner verheugen, have mentioned that an iron in the european internal market was incorrectly fitted with two different safety labels. it is bad enough, but the worst part is that one member state found this iron and only informed the other member states a year later. the council, in particular, needs to be changed. secondly, the importer's liability has already been mentioned. i can only support what has been said. but i think that a crucial problem - and this is my third point - is that we have different approaches at european level. we have the general product safety directive (gpsd) on the one hand, which covers all consumer goods, and the new approach on the other. this differential approach to consumer products is not yet fully secured at all points. i therefore believe that we need the ce marking, which is the new approach, as the basis for safety and product for access to the european internal market, but on the other hand we need an additional certification for all those manufacturers in the european internal market, but also beyond, which must be voluntary and which offers the european manufacturer the opportunity to compete in the global market, because the european internal market is the largest consumer internal market, larger than the us and also larger than any other in this area of products, to raise the standards overall. this solution - a voluntary basis, regulated by law at european level through a regulation - offers the consumer the security of knowing what is attached to a product by means of a certificate. this is a solution that is in line with the internal market and at the same time with the requirements of globalisation. one more point about toys. toys are two different things. i am fully aware that a teddy bear that a child puts in his mouth must of course meet different conditions than a computer keyboard, and we should take this differentiation into account in the legislative implementation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank vice-president verheugen and commissioner kuneva for being here and for making a contribution to the debate. if trade and economic policy have a really important role to play, it is where the safety of our children is concerned. children's toys have become cheaper and cheaper over the last few decades, and the cheaper the toy, the more likely it is that it was not produced in the eu. i am a liberal, but i have to say that there is a reasonable doubt that when parents buy toys, they always know best what is good for their children. the choice is vast and unpredictable; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. competition requires people who can and want to take responsibility. if you buy your children the cheapest stuffed animal without checking it, you don't want that responsibility! we must also consider whether we are going to have an information campaign by the commission for such parents. yes, i am for free trade, but not at any price! as europeans we have certain standards, and we have to enforce them more clearly. i would like to draw attention once again to the 'made in ...' campaign. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade in toys is not affected by the current situation. i am aware of the efforts made by commissioner kuneva in this area and can only encourage her in this. the label must be of sufficient size to be visible on the goods. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this proposal concerns the participation of farmers in the restructuring fund and the committee voted on the wording: ... 50% of the corresponding restructuring aid .... i'd like to change it to 25%. i have already discussed this with the other groups and i hope that it will be accepted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask for referral back to committee on behalf of our group, pursuant to rule 168 (2) of the rules of procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the sugar beet growers are not forced to pay the price of their sugar. in the last version, member states were able to go further. that too has now been abolished. we have already considered whether we should ask for a transfer back at this point, and then we have settled on 10%. we shouldn't do this again! the only way we can talk to the commission, because we are in the consultation procedure, is to send the report back now and negotiate with the commission and the council.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the council's efforts have been well described by secretary of state lobo antunes. i have nothing to add to what the secretary of state has said. our group fully supports your efforts to make it clear that the european union is not only supporting a moratorium, but is also strongly committed to the objective of abolishing the death penalty worldwide. the european parliament - my predecessor has said this - has already said on two occasions this year: we in this parliament are at the forefront of this fight to abolish the death penalty. for us european social democrats, the death penalty is the lowest point of human morality! i come from a country where the dignity of the human person is the first article of the constitution. to preserve and protect them is the obligation of every state order. that is the message of my country's constitution. in line with this message, we in the european union have drawn up a charter of fundamental rights, the first message of which is precisely this: human dignity is the european union's supreme maxim for action! only, the death penalty is the opposite of human dignity. it is the degradation of man to the lowest point of his existence. it is the duty of every morally-minded democrat to abstain. we are fighting for the european union to support this moratorium. why, however, is there no unanimity in the council? there is a member state in the council which is boycotting a joint decision of the european union. i have no hesitation in saying this name here: it is the polish government which does not want us to take this fundamental decision. it links the question of the death penalty with other questions and says: if others mix their views on this question with those on abortion, assisted dying, then we are also prepared to oppose the death penalty. that is a long-winded argument! why would you do that? i'd like to tell you that. i would like to read you a quote from a radio interview on july 28 of this year. i quote: "i personally have been, am and remain a supporter of the death penalty. at present, there is no possibility of returning to this punishment, but i am counting on a more favourable climate in the eu in the future. lech kaczyński, president of the republic of poland. that is why there is no decision by the european council on this moratorium. the president of poland is a supporter of the death penalty! and he hopes that there will be a better climate in the european union to reintroduce it! that is why i say: this parliament is here to ensure that the climate in europe remains against the death penalty! that's the crucial point! (applause from the centre) as long as we european socialists have a say in this, we will do so. i would like to ask the council, however, a question, mr secretary of state lobo antunes, not to you personally but to the heads of state or government of the other 26 member states: how long will the other 26 heads of state and government be prepared to tolerate and remain silent about the fact that a supporter of the death penalty who is openly saying so can paralyse the whole european council on this issue? we need an answer to that, too! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make a personal remark on the basis of article 145. the polish colleague, who was speaking on behalf of the uen group, made a very wrong statement about my speech, and i should like to make that clear. i asked the council how long it would continue to tolerate the attitude of polish president kaczyński. i quoted mr kaczyński, who said that he wanted a better atmosphere to enable the death penalty to be reintroduced in europe. so my question to the council was: how long will the council allow this to continue? how long will the other 26 governments keep quiet about this? i have not said a word about deciding how long mr kaczyński will remain president of poland. it is an absolute sovereign right of the polish people to elect their government and their president. i hope very much that the polish people will be wise enough to send this government home as soon as possible!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have asked for this debate in the inta committee because we are simply concerned, because we see that we are concluding more and more agreements of various kinds, which affect all our work in the field of foreign trade and which of course always have a foreign policy component. we have bilateral free trade agreements, regional free trade agreements, partnership agreements and strategic agreements, and we are simply concerned about how to bring them together so that we have a unified european approach to responding to the challenges of globalisation in the field of foreign policy and foreign trade. commissioner, you have rightly said that brazil is an important country for us - and i am very grateful for the presence of the presidency of the council - and of course we all share this opinion. it is not only an important country, it is also a fantastic country in many ways. the question is, however, how can this strategic agreement be rationally merged with the contemplation of concluding a regional agreement with mercosur, which is in a very difficult situation? it is not that we are shining in the negotiations. it's very complicated. we want to conclude a multilateral agreement in parallel within the framework of the doha round. this agreement does not look like we are going to make a great achievement, if we are going to make it at all. so how do you do all of this in parallel? that is our question. and at the same time, of course, a strategic agreement. what is the nature of a strategic agreement? it involves a lot of things, if you look at it. and again, we in my group are very pleased that they are included, but how do you want to correspond with the other members, for example in latin america, with whom we have free trade agreements? or how do you intend to communicate this back to us so that a unified european strategy is incorporated into our trade policy so that all our partners can understand it?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. even if the negotiations with mercosur are progressing slowly, the eu should send a clear signal to the brazilian government and our other partners that it will not conclude bilateral agreements with individual governments that oppose the integration processes in the respective regions: not with brazil, which is a member of mercosur and potentially of unasur in the future, not with colombia or peru, which are members of the andean community and also potential members of unasur. the difficulties in the negotiations with mercosur are not trivial. the future of agriculture, not just the future of large-scale agro-industry, but also the future of the service sector, industrialization, technology transfer, access to medicines - these are all questions to which we must find answers together with our latin american partners if we are to have real cooperation with this region. our aim should be a process of cooperation in which the interests of citizens are at the centre. cooperation must not be limited to sharing market shares and access to energy and water or to sharing patents on intellectual property. my group very much welcomed the fact that brazil, despite the objections of the pharmaceutical industry, has taken important steps to improve access to medicines, as has thailand. such steps should be supported by the commission and the council. we also welcome the fact that brazil has agreed to discuss the problem of the destruction of the amazon rainforest, which is essential for stabilizing the climate. although the destruction has slowed down in the last two years, it has not stopped. the push by both the european union and the us and other actors to gain access to biofuels, especially ethanol, rather than better control their consumption behaviour, is another threat to rainforest and food security. we occasionally hear from brazilian authorities that the country needs to expand its agricultural industry in order to improve its financial situation, especially because it faces the problem of foreign debt. as you know, new governments in the region are trying to find new ways to solve this problem. bolivia, ecuador, nicaragua, venezuela, paraguay and argentina have joined together to create a bank of the south, thus becoming independent of the world bank and the imf. this is also good news, even if we as the european union are shareholders in the other banks and thus lose out on lending. but then we have to end our way of conditionality. the european union should not stand by passively, but should take action and strengthen and develop these approaches, which are fully in line with our own objectives of cooperation and environmental protection.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. on behalf of my group, i thank you very much. this is a great idea, to promote mobility and at the same time take measures to prevent accidents and environmental pollution. but you have stressed that you want to respect subsidiarity. if you read the paper, you make very specific suggestions, for example, about city tolls and other things. how do you ensure that your good proposals and the debate we are all waiting for and will be having for a year will not lead to the patronage of cities and regions, but actually only to the encouragement of best practice? we agree that we need to do something for cities and get best practice. we know the accident statistics. some cities and towns have high accident rates, while others do not. it's because of the way things are done locally. how do you propose to develop common ideas without giving the cities and regions the feeling that europe is their patron?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. it is true that more and more people are living in cities and agglomerations, but there are of course the specific problems of shrinking cities which should not be entirely ignored. my first question is, are they in the picture? we have an overload in the inner cities, mainly due to individual traffic, with the consequences of excessive emissions, fine dust, noise and also safety problems. secondly, if we are to further strengthen public transport and its intelligent interconnection plays a decisive role in the solution, then of course the question arises whether we can possibly use funds from the structural funds to do so. thirdly, as regards the many individual proposals for freight logistics, etc. do we also have a forum for the exchange of best practice models, where this exchange takes place on a regular basis?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, thank you for your report. you write here that you want to promote alternatives to the car, namely bus, train, cycling and walking. but you also know that 95% of the eu co-financing that cities apply for goes only to the streets. so consider whether you say at least 50% must go to these alternatives in the future, because my home city of berlin, for example, says that eu money should not be spent on public transport. i think this is crazy! if you don't change the funding, you're not going to succeed. so how do you intend to ensure that the european union can consider the alternatives in the future?
the commission's vice-president madam, your concern joins mine. i would very much like the new member states, particularly romania and bulgaria, to make the best use of the cohesion fund and it is true that we must, as far as possible, give priority to rail transport, which will then save us major problems in terms of environmental requirements and the risk of congestion on european motorways. so thank you for your question. i'll ask my staff to fill in the answer. we are of course at your disposal when i have the opportunity to go to those states to supplement the information i have.
the commission's vice-president i answer to mr posselt. the paris-strasbourg-stuttgart-vienna-bratislava railway line no 17 is one of the 30 priority projects of the transeuropean transport network. the stuttgart 21 project you mention, mr president, is an important link in this priority project. on 19 july 2007, an agreement was signed between mr tiefensee, german minister of transport, and the authorities of the land of baden-württemberg, the region and the city of stuttgart and deutsche bahn. the agreement is a key step in addressing the bottleneck of the stuttgart-ulm section, as it provides for funding for the start of work in 2010. the commission is closely following the modernisation of the sections between stuttgart and ulm. in july 2005, the commission appointed a european coordinator for this line, mr péter balázs, who submitted his second report to the commission. this report was forwarded to the chairman of the tran parliamentary committee. it is available on the internet site of the directorate-general for transport and energy. mr balázs, the coordinator, continues to pay the greatest attention to the stuttgart-ulm bottleneck, which must be resolved. in his report, the coordinator analysed the progress of the paris-bratislava priority project and concluded that the project could be largely completed in 2015. however, due to the complexity of the stuttgart-ulm section, this section will only be completed in 2019. it is obvious that a priority project does not exclude continuation to other destinations. other priority projects, such as the athens-sofia-budapest-vienna-prague-nuremberg-dresden railway line, will allow the paris-bratislava project to continue to the black sea and greece, and the eurocaprail pp28 priority project will link brussels via luxembourg to strasbourg. member states submitted their proposals for community co-financing in july 2007. the evaluation of these proposals is ongoing. on the basis of this evaluation, the commission will propose to the european parliament and the council an allocation of the ten-t budget for the period 2007-2013. that, mr posselt, is the answer i wanted to give you. i am very, very interested in this great paris-budapest axis and i can tell you that, together with mr balázs, we are really anxious to mobilise all the energies around this great project.
i'm not going to tell you. in fact, you deserve the historic credit of having set in motion what kohl and mitterrand decided in 1982 and which is now finally becoming a reality. i have two quick requests. firstly, the crossborder projects in strasbourg, kehl, appenweier and munich, mühldorf and salzburg are also very complex. is there any news? secondly, if we are already spending so much european money on crossborder routes, can you perhaps influence the railway companies to stop the reduction in crossborder train services? we are using our own money to build the railways, and at the same time the railway companies are cutting the track with national timetables.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr paasilinna, for the excellent cooperation he has shown. it was a tough job, but you were always cooperative. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his tenacity over many months and for his commitment to the project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. since president barroso was apparently inspired by mit and brought the idea of creating a european institute of technology to the world, this idea, this project, has changed. it looks different today than it did in the original version. that's good, because we were a little vague in the wording at the beginning. now a european project has emerged from this, and above all, something new has emerged. we are a continent of ideas. we know that. we are very good at research, we are very good at science. but what we have difficulty with is actually turning these wonderful ideas that have revolutionized the world into tangible products. that's our problem. so if we were to define research as an investment of money in knowledge, then innovation would be the reverse process. knowledge becomes a product, a license, a patent becomes money again. this is our weak point in europe and it is here that the eit, the european institute of technology, can help. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. you can tell that right off the bat. it's a compromise. but it is a good compromise and it is now up to us to bring it to the people and to clarify it with the parties involved. the rapporteurs have worked very well together. we must not lose sight of the very great objective, for the target audience of the eit is in particular small and mediumsized enterprises. the aim is also to get the knowledge from university institutes, but it's mainly about this process of networking, which doesn't work that way for us. i would like to address a few controversial points: the commission proposes that it should itself prepare the eit's strategic agenda. i'd say we shouldn't do that. there must be autonomy here, as in the european research council. otherwise the private sector has little chance. then the intellectual property issue must be resolved in such a way that it is attractive for a medium-sized enterprise to participate in the eit. of course we need an eit that is a brand, has a brand name. we want a strong eit, and we do not want just a pilot project. because that would scare off a lot of investors, and we need the investors. let me say something about financing. i have been personally speaking for some time on the subject of the 'lisbonisation' of our budget. that means that we can 'lisbonise' the large budget we have in the field of agricultural and regional policy, and apparently we are now at a point where we are talking about putting the galileo and eit together, and that is very close to 'lisbonising', namely investing in innovation. so butter on the fish. i would ask my colleagues to vote for this compromise tomorrow by a large majority. i would like to congratulate you on your work, mr paasilinna.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr paasilinna, and all the shadow rapporteurs and members of the committees of inquiry who have worked very constructively together over the past few months to bring the eti into a form which we can all decide on tomorrow by a large majority. the european institute of innovation and technology has the opportunity and the potential to become a european beacon. i am convinced of that and i regret that we have called for a debate on this important matter so late today. in fact, this dossier deserved to be discussed in the morning. but i very much hope that the motions for rejecting the commission's proposal in its entirety will not find a majority tomorrow. we have always been united in our objective for the european institute of technology: we want to strengthen europe's capacity for innovation. and we have always agreed that we must improve the transfer of technology and know-how from research and teaching to industry and the economy. the question gretchen always asked was: can the european institute of technology make a valuable contribution to this? i think that the eit in the form we have now created in the report by mr paasilinna really has a chance to do this work and to generate european added value. we did it our way, not like the americans, that we put an institute on the green and pumped a lot of funding into it. no, we are doing it in our own way, the european way, by building a network structure here and by supporting and supporting the universities, colleges, research institutes and teaching institutes that we already have here. we hope that we will then be able to create european added value through an intelligent network structure. i am confident that the eti will be a success and i am happy to contribute to it. i am not going to make a speech about munich, which has of course also applied for the eti. the important thing is that we give our blessing to the project tomorrow by a large majority.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i agree with the rapporteur, mr saryusz-wolski, on the problems of import dependence and the growing dependence on imports of energy raw materials, and i disagree with him on this point. the report describes this very well. i do not agree with the solutions proposed in this report, however, and i believe that important strategic objectives of internal, internal european energy policy should have been reflected in this report. in my view, the most important instrument for reducing this growing dependence on imports is the reduction of energy consumption in all areas, and i also believe that the 20% energy efficiency increase europe has committed itself to by 2020 must be a target that must be incorporated into the strategic energy external policy. if we realise that in russia the amount of gas unnecessarily consumed in the building sector alone is equal to the amount of gas exported by russia to the european union, then it is clear how much we can gain if we implement our efficiency strategies at home and make russia a viable option in an energy strategy of the european union that is also oriented towards the outside. this means that we can also influence russia's internal energy policy by example. on the subject of oil - dependency on opec is always lagging behind in the face of the heated debate on russia - i would say that if europe succeeds in making fuel-efficient and efficient cars the model and in imposing a kerosene tax on aviation fuel, then this would be more useful than heated debates with opec on markets and export opportunities. we support some of them, but not others, mr saryusz-wolski!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in a way, this is a very honest account. it is clearly stated that there is no contractual basis for this external energy policy. that's right! the question then is: why is this initiative being taken? the initiative is being taken - this was also heard in the speeches, but more clearly than in the report itself - because of russia's energy policy. this is the general line that runs through the whole report. it is an anti-russian report - this is expressed differently in different places - and it is a report which clearly states that the european union wants to be a global player and that energy foreign policy is a means to that end. this too is in some ways honest and something which may or may not be politically desirable. we don't want that! clear demands are made for specific projects. the lobbying policy for the nabucco pipeline project, which is also being carried out in this house, is reflected in this report. in total, the countries covered are: turkey is almost exclusively seen as a transit hub for energy supply. that is a little less than what turkey really is. i particularly like the wording used in relation to the united states. it says: 'in particular, it underlines the importance of enhancing energy dialogue with the us and other key partners in the energy sector who share the eu's values.' i would remind you that the united states is at war in iraq with a number of allies, including on energy issues. if these are the same values, then we must say very clearly no to this development! it is clearly stated that the g8 is intended to represent the energy interests of the various eu member states involved and links are made with the military component. as i said, the whole thing is, in a way, an honest account. a colleague of mine put it this way: there is a cold war element to this report. i think that is true, and that is why my group will reject this report.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by paying tribute to the rapporteur, mr saryusz-wolski. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so it's a compliment that the paper was actually written and passed. as rapporteur for trade and economic relations between the eu and russia, i would like to highlight two aspects and then make a general comment. the first aspect concerns the bilateral energy agreements. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. so as long as it doesn't exist, it must be possible to find other ways to talk about energy. the member states can effectively coordinate among themselves - this is very desirable, it is not an obligation. it is not possible to veto bilateral agreements. it speaks to the rapporteur's sense of reality, because i know that he wanted something different, that he wrote it in his report. secondly, combine the energy charter with russia's membership of the wto. the link between ratification of the energy charter and accession to the wto is a setback. it is also beneficial for the eu that russia is a member of the wto. we are not the only ones who can decide that. the report by the rapporteur on the common energy policy is a burden on russia, but that is the situation today.
the commission has already done so. we have worked quickly, but the commission has also submitted late. it has been discussed for a long time and has caused a great deal of impatience among the farmers: when will it finally come? we have not delayed anything, that is right, we did not want to do that. the reason given is that prices are high and that some stabilization is needed. i hope we're both happy and your husband especially with his business that finally money is coming to the farms. it's long overdue for that! and we should be careful here to say we have to do something to push prices down. also, it contradicts something you said this morning about sugar. you remember you said, with the price of grain, maybe now people will go into grain and out of sugar faster with the offers. if you push grain prices down again now, it could undermine your own logic and your own plans. they also say it's about the fruit sequences. yes, that's right. originally, this was a measure included in the crop rotation, since the crop rotation also required greening. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. we are asking you in an amendment not only to look at what you are planning to do in 2008, but also to tell us in parliament how the consequences should be designed in the interests of environmental protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. we've talked a lot about migrants today. i would now like to turn my attention to what our citizens are asking us. we have the question from the citizens that we have millions of unemployed in the european union, and we are talking about the influx of highly qualified people at the same time. it will take a lot of political courage to explain to our citizens that we need the best minds in the world among the highly qualified. the citizens also ask us: are you taking our concerns seriously in this context? we're talking about circular migration here. in my own country, we have brought in fellow turkish citizens in recent decades to work as labourers. in the czech republic, we have vietnamese. circular migration - that is, the return of these guest workers to their homes - has not worked in these countries so far. how do you want to solve this problem? how does that fit together? we will also have to make it clear to the citizens that we consider it the duty of migrants to integrate - as mr lambrinidis said earlier - to learn the language and to make efforts to integrate. we will only find an understanding of a european migration policy for legal immigration if we say clearly in the case of illegal immigration: illegals must also leave europe. only then will we get approval for legal immigration. the most important thing in my view is the clear promise to the european citizens that we will continue to leave the question of quotas, the number of people entering the labour market, to national competence. there is much more confidence among the citizens. i would like to thank our two rapporteurs for the excellent report they have produced. i would like to express on behalf of my group, the epp-ed, that we are pleased that our colleagues from the left-wing parties in parliament have also moved towards our position in many areas, when it comes to a robust return policy, when it comes to the question of leaving quotas to national decision-making and when we are building effective border security. i am very pleased that we, the epp-ed group, have been able to win our way through.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is good that it has finally been recognised that it is not just a matter of jointly fighting illegal migration, but that we also need comprehensive approaches to jointly address and coordinate legal migration, especially in an area without borders. but this cannot be the task of the home ministers alone, who quickly agree on the need to deter illegal immigrants, but it must also be the task of the minister for labour and social affairs. i therefore welcome the initiative of the council and the commission to involve the relevant departments, including our vice-chancellor, mr müntefering. legal migration always means immigration to the labour market and thus to social security systems. but we must also do more to combat the causes of the many people who seek their salvation by fleeing their desolate countries. we need to create legal employment opportunities. the blue card and circular migration are a first step in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. solidarity, which is always called for, must apply to all eu countries, not just a few, and i believe that refugees must be distributed among all member states in a key to be defined. this cannot be a matter for malta or the canary islands or greece alone. in the end, frontex can only be as good as the member states allow it to be. and on the fringe of frontex: frontex always names its actions after terms from greek mythology, such as the nautilus. but if i call one of the next actions hydra, then i think that's tasteless, and that needs to change. because anyone who knows anything about greek mythology knows what hydra means. (applause from the centre)
in writing. i think it was a mistake to stick to the idea of an eit. all the arguments put forward are not convincing because they are based on false premises. 1. the original idea of commission president barroso, to use the eit to find a european answer to the american mit, was already lacking in reality; the proposal which is being put to the vote today is a further deterioration of the original proposal. mit has grown with a lot of money and a lot of support, and in europe, there are already many 'mini-mits' doing world-class research. europe's dilemma is the lack of financial and moral support for innovation and cutting-edge research. the financing of the planned eur 309 million from the reserve budget blocks other initiatives of parliament such as the strategically important galileo project. the proposed financing represents only 1/8 of the estimated budget and thus does not provide an incentive for serious additional private initiatives. bp has invested usd 500 million in the biofuels sector in berkeley, usa alone. 3) the eit would have a chance with its own generous sources of funding and with grants directly to the existing european top institutions. for example, the eu could follow canada's example by setting up an innovation fund, which would be funded by the money remaining in the eu budget at the end of the year. the proposed network structure is a virtual supranational body with no relevance in the european and international research landscape. it is an unfortunate and bureaucratic compromise. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. the report advocates a ‘common european foreign policy on energy’. although so far there is not even a legal base for such a policy, it aims to push ahead with it even before it can be inserted in the new reform treaty. instead of solving the problem of expensive and polluting energy, the report wants to shape the eu as a hegemonic, global actor. such an expansive geopolitical approach of the eu would create more tension and conflicts worldwide. a strong anti-russian current is seen as a red thread in the text. almost every idea which could hinder the normal development of relations between russia and eu member states has been included. critics therefore speak of a touch of cold war. by the inclusion of a so-called ‘energy security clause’ in all agreements with producer and transit countries the eu will define its interest far beyond its borders. we are concerned about the foundation of an eu energy foreign policy that would be founded on geopolitical pressure, a background of military threat. the report calls for a close partnership with the usa on energy security, being aware that the usa is waging war in iraq to secure cheap energy resources.
in writing. the gruber report looks at immigration in parts only in terms of the utility of immigrant workers to capital. the report thus 'highlights the importance of building stable and legal employer-employee relations between enterprises and workers in order to improve the eu's productivity and competitiveness' and 'calls on the commission to take into account the impact that circular migration could have in this respect'. while the repressive measures against migrants and asylum seekers meet no resistance, 'any measure to increase the attractiveness of the union for highly qualified workers to meet the needs of the eu labour market, in order to ensure the prosperity of europe and the achievement of the lisbon objectives' should be supported. while the aim is to prevent the 'danger of the departure of top-level workers', 'return' is envisaged for migrants who can only enter fortress europe illegally. the approval of the strategic plan on legal immigration will focus on admission procedures which will allow for immediate response to changing demands in the labour market. immigration cannot be regulated on the basis of the criterion of its usefulness to eu capital. instead of immigration for eu companies, it must be about fundamental and human rights for migrants and asylum seekers. i am opposed to the idea of judging people on the basis of their usefulness.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the secret detention and illegal transport of prisoners in connection with council of europe member states (reports by claudio fava and dick marty).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the fava report was accepted by this parliament in february 2007 and contains a number of recommendations, both on the legal and political side. i would have liked the council to refer to these recommendations and to look at what has happened since then. if the council does not have mr fava's report, we can send it to it again. we would also like to know what has been done since then with regard to the recommendations made in this report concerning cooperation with the member states and the role of the council, which was mentioned in this report. mr dick marty, rapporteur for the council of europe, also presented a second report in july of this year. i would like to limit myself to two points. the report also mentions that there have been some european governments which have not only obstructed the search for the truth but continue to do so to this day by referring to so-called state secrets. this is nothing less than the misuse of state secrets to protect people who have acted against the law. unfortunately, he also speaks explicitly of my own country, the federal republic of germany, and of italy, but on the other hand he praises bosnia-herzegovina and the observer country in the council of europe, canada. but in a second paragraph he also mentions poland and romania specifically, and he mentions these two countries in connection with so-called secret prisons. this is another point on which i would like the council to tell us what has happened in this matter. the reference to the subsidiarity of the member states is not sufficient in this case, because we are referring to common european values. i refer to articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaties. they apply in all member states, irrespective of subsidiarity.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not what we have had to experience in the so-called fight against terrorism is what i would call a method of outsourcing human rights violations. people are being held in guantanamo, where they are denied the most basic human rights. people have been turned over to torture regimes because they don't want to get their hands dirty. secret prisons were operated, as president bush himself admitted. and european governments simply looked the other way when systematic human rights violations were committed on their own territory by american intelligence. the council of europe and our house have not remained silent on these monstrous acts, they have compiled the facts, they have investigated the violations of human rights and they have criticised them in the clearest possible terms. dick marty has done a very dedicated job here, and i want to thank him for that. the report by mr fava, which my group supported, urges a change from the practices that have become known. but what happens instead? my government, for example, has been making a tail on the american government in the case of khaled el-masri a few days ago. it refuses to forward the request for the extradition of the thirteen suspected cia agents to the us administration. why would you do that? only because the mere issuance of this request would have angered washington. i am not opposed to my country and the eu joining the us in confronting the threat of terrorism, but does that mean that kidnapping and torture are no longer wrong? there's no way cia agents can be issued a free pass and be allowed to do whatever they want. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. our fundamental values, in particular the comprehensive protection of human rights, must not be compromised in the so-called fight against terrorism. the european parliament and the council of europe have rightly stressed this, and i also expect the council and the commission to fully endorse this statement and, above all, to act on it. i would like to say that what i have heard from the council here today is by no means sufficient. i really expect the council to act in accordance with these principles which it has formulated itself and to give practical effect to the recommendations of the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we in the committee have done our job. it's been proven that the cia has been kidnapping and transporting people in europe. the prosecutors in milan and munich have clearly established and proved this. but what kind of policy is this if the authorities in berlin and rome refuse to send the us government a request for an arrest - the technical term? the kidnappers and nothing else are the cia agents who kidnapped khaled al-masri in skopje must be handed over. in a state governed by the rule of law - and we are one of them - there can be no exceptions to the law. and when as so-called high-ranking security officials in berlin claim relations with the us government are being disrupted by the work of the munich prosecutor's office, which is merely doing its job as it is supposed to, that says a lot about the mindset and attitude of these people to the rule of law. the european union must be prepared to take action against terrorism. but please with those of the rule of law and not with wild west methods according to the country of origin principle, as the cia has organized here. it is also good and right that chancellor angela merkel should exhort the chinese to respect human rights and receive the dalai lama. but that's not enough. we have homework to do at home, too. there must be no strong rule of law à la carte, which can only be strong if it fits into the system. and when i hear the questions, what did the committee cost? what does democracy cost? then i can only say to those: dear people, a dictatorship is much cheaper to have, but then please also name the price for it! we're not prepared to pay for that!
acting president of the council. i shall be as brief as possible, but this was a very well-attended debate and a number of questions were raised. as you will understand, mr president, some of them will certainly merit my attention and my reply. of course, during this debate, members expressed a number of different views, not all of which were unanimous. all of them, of course, deserve my full respect, even if i cannot agree with all of them. i cannot, of course, agree with the speech made here by a member of parliament elected by my country, who in her speech referred exclusively to the situation in portugal, and i cannot, of course, subscribe to that speech in any way. but nevertheless, and despite our differences, i'm sure we agree on the essential, and the essential is that we wage the war on terror in the name of freedom, and that we can only win this war in freedom. as i said at the beginning of my speech, the fight against international terrorism can only be won by a common effort and by respect for the fundamental values and principles that are shared by the european union and the united states. the council has indeed been called upon to act, but as i have said, and as previous presidencies have also said, the council itself has no competence in this area. the honourable member may regret it, but that is the truth of the matter. in this connection, articles 6 and 7 of the treaties have been invoked (as we know, articles 6 and 7 lay down principles, establish values but do not confer powers) and the institutions, in accordance with the so-called 'principle of conferral of powers', can only exercise those powers which are actually clearly and expressly conferred on them by the treaties. this is the way the union's institutions work. but nevertheless the commission has put forward a number of proposals and initiatives here, some of which it has already taken, some of which it will take and which will of course deserve the full attention and effort of the council and of course the commission's proposals will not fail to be welcomed by the council. on the other hand, i should also like to say that numerous initiatives have been taken in the member states, and especially by their parliaments, and investigations are being carried out in line with the recommendations made in the european parliament's report. in this connection, and with specific reference to what is happening in portugal, i represent the portuguese government, a government that has emerged from the socialist party, a party which in portugal has been exemplary and exemplary in the struggle for democracy and freedom in our country. neither the government nor, of course, the socialist party has ever, or will ever, agree to violations of human rights. as i said, we welcome the efforts and initiatives to find the truth on this matter. this requires rigor, and the basis for rigorous analysis is not to confuse or present mere assumptions as facts. as regards the transatlantic relations mentioned above, the council reiterates that, in general, in the field of the fight against terrorism, internal security measures of general application and not limited to a member state of the european union can only be implemented in the framework of very close cooperation with the united states. this cooperation must of course be developed, as is also clear from the declaration of the last transatlantic summit held during the german presidency.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that no one in this house has any doubt that these actions are illegal. the added value i see in mr fava's report is obviously that we all, the three european institutions, must ensure that this does not happen again. it is a strong urge which i take from the conclusions of the fava report and which seems to me to be the political point to be made. so i think there are two aspects: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not think that anyone thinks, as has been said many times, that we can take the place of our judges, who, according to the rule of law, must investigate with full evidence and respect for the presumption of innocence, which mr fava himself has just mentioned. past and future: these are the two levels of attention that are needed. europe and the united states, ladies and gentlemen, share - and this cannot be denied - a constitutional tradition and history of guaranteeing fundamental rights. i therefore believe that torture, illegal detentions and the abduction of people suspected of terrorism are themselves against our common transatlantic history of democracy and rights. so i think the political conclusion is how to strengthen our euro-atlantic bond, so that there is more security and at the same time more rights. it would be extremely wrong to point the finger at the united states, when we should instead find a way of fighting terrorism together on the basis of respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. this is the lesson i personally draw from many of those recommendations. and then there's how to strengthen our sovereignty, it's a serious issue. how can europe strengthen its sovereign space to be a stronger, not a weaker, ally in euro-atlantic cooperation? the first example is the reference i made to the single european airspace. when there is a common rule for 27 member states on the rights of overflight, the definition of aircraft and the powers of control of this single european sky, as from january 2009, europe will have strengthened its sovereignty. and then, of course, the commission will have a power of coordination and supervision, because then the rules will no longer be national but will be european. finally, mr president, this debate gives us one more reason to include the charter of fundamental rights in the future constitutional treaty or institutional treaty, as you will call it. this is all the more reason why the institutional reference to the charter of rights will give the union's institutions powers - including the power to monitor and take action before the court - in areas which are absolutely key to the daily lives of all of us.
the debate is closed.
thank you very much. we shall see if this is possible from a procedural point of view.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the operations in the framework of the european security and defence policy in eastern chad and northern central african republic.
acting president of the council. thank you very much, mr president. the presidency appreciates this opportunity to exchange views on the possibility of conducting an esdp operation in eastern chad and the north-east of the central african republic. the conflict in darfur remains one of the union's main foreign policy priorities. we welcome some recent progress, in particular, firstly, the announcement that talks will begin on 27 october under the auspices of the united nations and the special envoy of the african union to find a peaceful solution to the conflict which will strengthen the prospects for peace in darfur, and secondly, we also welcome the unanimous adoption of security council resolution 1769 establishing unamid, which is giving a new impetus to efforts to develop the darfur conflict. however, for these efforts to bear fruit, it is important to address the darfur conflict in a broader regional context. the negative impact of the conflict on the humanitarian and security situation in neighbouring countries, in particular chad and the central african republic, is of particular concern. we believe that a lasting solution to the conflict in darfur cannot be found without stabilising the situation in these neighbouring countries. as you know, in the council conclusions of 23 july last, the council drew attention to the urgent need to contain the destabilising impact of the darfur crisis on the humanitarian and security situation in neighbouring countries and reiterated its support for a multi-dimensional united nations presence in eastern chad and the north-east of the central african republic. the council also decided to continue planning work with a view to a possible decision on a transitional operation, called 'bridging operation' under the european security and defence policy, esdp, to support this multi-dimensional united nations presence in order to strengthen security in these areas. preparations for a possible operation have been going on all summer. on 12 september, the council adopted the crisis management concept which defines the main planning parameters for this transitional operation. it gives particular emphasis to the objective of protecting civilians in danger, in particular refugees and displaced persons, and of facilitating the delivery of humanitarian aid, thereby increasing security in the region. as regards the internal political situation in the two countries, the council considers that the mission should maintain its independence, impartiality and neutrality. planning work is under way on the basis of this concept, in accordance with the european union's crisis management procedures. the next steps will be the adoption of a joint action concept of the operation and the plan of operations, including the determination of the composition of the force. the operation is expected to last one year and is expected to be replaced by a multinational un mission. any esdp operation in chad and the central african republic will be based on a resolution by the united nations security council and will be conducted in close consultation with that organization and our african partners. we, the union, welcome the statement by the president of the united nations security council on 27 august, in which he expressed the willingness of the security council to authorize the deployment of a multidimensional force to eastern chad and the north-east of the central african republic. the possible projection of an eu operation for chad and the central african republic will need to be complemented by political initiatives to address the regional dimension of the conflict in darfur, in particular any efforts to normalise relations between chad and sudan in accordance with the tripoli and riyadh agreements should be supported. sudan, chad and the central african republic should also be encouraged to respect their commitments not to support rebel movements operating from their territories against any of the other countries.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption yesterday by the united nations security council of resolution 1778/2007 on the deployment of an international force in eastern chad and the north-east of the central african republic, the door is now open for the council of the european union to approve, in the very next few days, an esdp operation in these countries. this is obviously a major development, which i think should be welcomed. the regions concerned by the operation are characterised by widespread instability and insecurity, affecting hundreds of thousands of civilians, who are forced to live in extremely vulnerable conditions. as you know, this situation is not explained solely by the export of the darfur crisis to chad and the central african republic. there are also endogenous reasons, specific to these countries, particularly in the case of chad. the stability of these regions of chad and the central african republic can only be ensured if international action, and in particular that of the european union, incorporates the following factors. firstly, the quality of the military and police presence in chad and the central african republic. secondly, an approach which is not confined to the security aspect but also covers the assistance and political aspects. finally, the capacity to contain and stem the interference between sudan and the darfur region with chad and the central african republic. the first point is that this is a field which falls under the second pillar. the council's colleagues have therefore spoken and will probably continue to speak. an important element to be taken into account in the deployment of this european force is, of course, the preservation of humanitarian space. that is why my services at echo have worked closely with the council's military planners to ensure that the respective mandates are respected and that there is very good cooperation between military and civilian humanitarian personnel. we have in particular requested that liaison officers from the eu force be present on the ground to ensure a permanent link and exchange of information with the humanitarian workers. now for the second point. the assistance measures envisaged by the commission cover three aspects. first, a security component to support the chadian police operation, under the auspices of the united nations. the main purpose of the programme is to finance the training of 800 chadian police officers responsible for maintaining order in refugee and displaced persons camps. it's crucial that this police action be exemplary. it is also very important that it be welcomed by the people. funds from the stability instrument of around eur 10 million will be committed before the end of 2007 for this purpose. the humanitarian side comes next. in 2007, the commission allocated eur 30.5 million for emergency humanitarian aid and multisectoral assistance programmes for both displaced refugee populations and host communities in chad. eur 8 million was committed for the central african republic. at least similar amounts will be provided for 2008. the third element is the reintegration, rehabilitation aspect. additional funds from the 9th european development fund, amounting to approximately eur 13.1 million, will be mobilised in the short term in chad and the central african republic. the programme is intended to continue the echo actions as part of a strategy of rehabilitation and transition towards development. ladies and gentlemen, these assistance measures are necessary but must be coupled with measures concerning the political process. to ensure lasting stability, international and european action will have to be complemented by various activities in the areas of restoring the rule of law, reviving economic governance, reforming the justice and security system and also pursuing political dialogue between the government and opposition parties. this is of course important, especially in view of the 2009 elections. the european commission will continue to promote this comprehensive approach in chad and the central african republic. the commission is also fully active in helping to resolve the conflict in darfur, both through its humanitarian assistance and reconstruction and through its support for the negotiation and mediation process, in which we are of course very much involved. in this connection, i recently informed the un secretary-general, mr ban ki-moon, and the chairman of the african union commission, mr konaré, that the commission would contribute to the darfur trust fund in support of the negotiations. in addition, the commission is also financing initiatives to ensure the involvement and participation of darfur civil society in the conflict resolution process.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the humanitarian situation in chad, particularly along the 1,360 km border with sudan, but also in the border area with the central african republic, calls for action by the international community. i myself was in chad a few days ago and i had a good idea of the situation there. over 400 000 refugees and displaced persons live in refugee camps in this border region. these camps are under constant threat from bandits, marauding gangs, but also from janjaweed militias from sudan. the situation is even more difficult in the flat country. the lack of security there has led to more and more people seeking refuge in the refugee camps. to help the people who are suffering there, the security situation in the region must be improved so that they can return to their homes. this is a difficult challenge. to cope with them, division of labour is necessary. the united nations has taken on the task of helping to build up police forces which can then also serve as a contact point for the security forces. the european union, on the other hand, was asked to provide troops capable of deterring the janjaweed and the bandits and preventing attacks on refugees, displaced persons and the civilian population. in this draft resolution, parliament agrees to such action, subject to the following conditions: firstly, mr president, commissioner, you have said that the political negotiations must continue because, in the end, we need a political solution. but if we send troops there, they need a strong mandate that actually allows them to deter the janjaweed and the bandits. we have a very large area to secure. the troops must therefore be large enough to actually improve the security situation. it must be made clear that this is a european association involving several european nations. eufor shall also have adequate equipment to enable it to fulfil its mission. given the relatively small size of the troops and the size of the border area, this requires, above all, excellent skills in reconnaissance and transport, as the troops must be able to quickly identify where danger is threatening and then be able to reach that place quickly. in no case should a situation arise whereby an eufor force in chad would be able to protect itself only, due to its mandate or due to equipment shortages, without being able to fulfil its essential mission. the european parliament also demanded that a clear exit strategy be presented, setting out how and by whom eufor will be replaced after the planned duration of one year. the european parliament also stressed that, in view of the complex political situation in the region, eufor in chad should act as a neutral force for security and protection of the civilian population. the eufor mission to the congo last year has shown how important credible non-partisanship and independence can be to the success of an operation. in the present situation, the european union can make an important contribution to improving the humanitarian situation in the region and to supporting the african union in taking on more responsibility in the region by deploying for a year. both are necessary! i therefore ask you to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to add a few figures to what we are talking about: 230 000 refugees, 170 000 internally displaced persons and an estimated 700 000 people who are indirectly threatened by attacks. we are in favour of closing this gap, this vacuum. that must be the focus of the european mission. the precondition for a robust mandate was laid down yesterday. the question of neutrality is not settled. at the moment it looks as if the french troops already stationed will be augmented by only a few countries. this threatens the neutrality and the success of the mission. but what i would like to ask in particular of the foreign ministers who are to decide on friday is to ensure that the area of operation of the eufor mission is clearly identified. that is not the case today. it would be a disaster if this mission were not allowed to operate where aid is most urgently needed, namely in the border region. i expect the european union to deal with the chadian regime there and to have the right to take action on the 35 km frontier. otherwise, it's a fig leaf operation that could endanger people.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. to clarify, this is an esdp mission in chad and the central african republic under chapter 7 of the un charter, i.e. it is a combat mission, not sudan and darfur. the french government is very keen on this eu mission. she wants to put the force headquarters and the operation headquarters itself. the german and british governments are very sceptical. french soldiers are already in chad. it is quite obvious that france is acting as a protector of the governments in chad and the central african republic and now simply wants to hide its involvement under the eu logo. the french troops are not neutral, but clearly biased. they've bombed the rebels in the area. the rebel leaders have announced that if the eu troops are not neutral, they will go to war with these troops. the nordic battle group is not available, as i have just heard, and the un resolution calls for open cooperation with the military and police of chad. it is obvious that chad and the central african republic are not democracies. refugee return is not the mandate of this eu force, and this operation is - to put it bluntly - very dangerous. we as a group will vote against the resolution because we believe that this action will not improve the situation but will make it worse.
i have to say, madam president, the situation in chad and the central african republic is difficult for the people affected, and i therefore support in principle an eu commitment to stabilise the situation and improve the concrete living conditions of those affected. in his statement of 27 august, the president of the world security council outlined the intentions of the international community to deploy an eu operation for 12 months to bridge the time for a un-led mission. this is why the eu has a clear limit of one year. i am convinced that we need a strong mandate to do this, which means not limiting ourselves to mere self-defence but, if necessary, also enforcing our objectives against those who want to prevent us. the text of yesterday's un security council resolution goes in this direction: 'the presence aims to contribute to a security situation which allows the voluntary, safe and lasting return of refugees and displaced persons.' we are authorized to take all necessary measures. i call on the council to ensure that these troops are not just cosmetically enhanced french troops. the nationality of the commander should also be respected. unfortunately, france has not been neutral in the conflicts in chad and the central african republic, but has traditionally supported the government side. the language of command and operation on the ground should therefore be english, so that people will at least understand that the europeans are obviously not the usual ones. as for british affairs, i find it extremely critical that the uk has prevented the eu command centre in brussels from leading the operation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have no doubt that the objectives are achievable. have we set ourselves specific targets? how many of the internally displaced are expected to be back home by the end of the year? how many darfurians are back in darfur? it would be too little to pass on the baton after a year and still have the same number of people in the camps. the cost is considerable, i hear, 100 million euros alone for the construction of a suitable runway and for the headquarters. and then there's the ongoing cost of the troops. can the council give any concrete information on the overall financial framework? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i heard what the fellow said. i want this in writing in the form of an official document from the government of chad and not verbally from the minister in the world security council. if i have that assurance, i can agree to the matter. on the other hand, we would really be faced with the alternative of either extending or withdrawing after one year and leaving a military vacuum which would lead in a short time to a situation identical to the present one. we would then have literally put hundreds of millions in the sand.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe, yes the whole world is looking at burma. today, for the first time, blood has been shed, as my british colleague has already mentioned, because there is nothing to hide, and this is a new situation in the debate. the socialist group is appalled by the military regime's brutal crackdown on peaceful demonstrators. we expect the un security council, which is sitting in parallel, to take immediate action and also to exert influence, influence over china and with china. the second message today must be that the european parliament is sympathetic to the people of burma, that we sympathize with them, that we help them and that we admire their courage. the buddhist monks are not a small elite minority. they are part of the citizenry and are supported by thousands. the demonstrations were certainly caused by the arbitrary increase in prices, but violations of the human rights charter and, more specifically, of the international labour organization, torture and forced labour have been practised by the junta for years. in times of globalization, isolation is no longer possible, and that is a good thing! the basic democratic rights, the universal value system, also apply to the asian continent. we expect that in burma the long-planned constitution will be put on the agenda immediately and burma - as, incidentally, interestingly enough, thailand - will hold democratic elections relatively quickly. it is possible to establish and implement democratic systems in these regions. the asean countries must of course also take a more active role, alongside the un and europe, especially since they have the right to be something like the eu. the demonstrations in the philippines today are a good sign of solidarity in the region. there is no turning back on the road to democracy - not even for burma!
acting president of the council. i am very grateful to you, mr president, and i think that i may have given this answer, that answer to this question, in the previous speech. the funding issues are on the table. the council will have to discuss them, there is no decision on this matter. and it is to be expected, of course, that there may be different views in the various member states on this subject too. but i think there is, in fact, a consensus among us on the strategic nature of this project.
acting president of the council. the european union will take stock of the reform process under way in bosnia and herzegovina in the annual progress report which is due to be published in november, as is usual. the council has reiterated on numerous occasions the importance of a swift implementation of the four conditions for the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement negotiations as set out in the council conclusions of 12 december 2005, in particular the implementation of police reform. however, as is well known, the political situation has remained tense in recent months due to a radicalization of the positions taken by the main bosnian political leaders, and it seems at the moment extremely difficult to reach a consensus on the reform agenda, especially with regard to the restructuring of the police forces. the high representative met miroslav lajčákbe, the european union special representative for bosnia and herzegovina, in september, and therefore on 10 september in brussels, and expressed his full support for the eu special representative and his efforts to reach a compromise on police reform with the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina. the secretary-general, high representative solana, urged the bosnian leaders to engage constructively in the latest initiative presented by the special representative in order to remove the last obstacle preventing bosnia and herzegovina from concluding the stabilisation and association agreement with the european union, and also called on the bosnian authorities to act responsibly so as to finally fulfil their obligations towards the people of bosnia and herzegovina. the council also expressed its support for the efforts being made in bosnia and herzegovina to reform the constitution with a view to creating more functional state structures that are better able to meet european standards. the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of national accounts for the financial year 2000 to ensure that the accounts of the member states are kept up to date. under the instrument for pre-accession assistance, the european union has earmarked eur 1 million for constitutional reform in bosnia and herzegovina. the council also approved, as you know, on 7 february 2007, a joint action amending and extending the mandate of the eusr in bosnia and herzegovina and under this amended mandate, the eusr will provide political advice and good offices in the constitutional reform process.
bosnia-herzegovina will have a future only if it is transformed into an equal federation of all its three peoples, including not only the herzegovinian but also the central bosnian croats. my question is quite specific: what can be done when a sub-state such as republika srpska blocks police reform and the return of displaced persons from within, but the eu only exerts pressure on the whole state from outside? do you also talk to the individual entities and apply pressure on them, or is this just the central government? then it will be very difficult.
acting president of the council. i have not read or heard mrs riis' statements and therefore would not like to comment directly on them, but i would like to say to her the following: we have a process going on now, a process which is led by a troika with a representative of the european union, a representative of the russian federation and a representative of the united states of america. we have to let the troika play its part and we understand that it is good that it does so in a calm, confidential atmosphere and on the side of the european union, and of course we fully support the work of the troika. and the troika also has a very clear mandate, which is to present a report in december, which will be the conclusion, which will tell the conclusions and very likely recommendations of what has been its work developed over these months. we hope, therefore, as i said, that the work will be completed, that the report will be known and that any recommendations from this troika will also be known to us. and above all, it is a fundamental point for the european union that whatever conclusions or recommendations or perspectives on the future of kosovo may be contained in the troika report, that the european union, above all, should remain united and cohesive in the decisions it has to take, if it has to take them. this has been the consistent appeal of the portuguese presidency and we are confident that it will be heard.
mr. president, are you aware that mr. papadimoulis is completely isolated here? do you know the resolution of this house in which we said with a majority of 75% of the members: we are in favour of the ahtisaari-rohan plan and we are clearly in favour of internationally controlled sovereignty? do you know that we have clearly ruled out the option of partitioning kosovo? i also want to ask you what you think about these rumors that there's talk of a split. the fact is that both the contact group and this parliament have ruled this out.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too would like to thank the rapporteur, although i have not yet had the pleasure of reading one of his books. but it will be noted by me and will be brought up at the next opportunity. i would like to thank you for your cooperation and for the effort you have made to address important issues in your report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the services market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies, and that the services market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. i therefore regret that the council is not here tonight, and that it could have been made clear to it once again that we expect both directives to be implemented in due time and that the work in the member states will be carried forward accordingly. but we need more initiatives - the rapporteur rightly pointed this out - to strengthen consumer confidence in crossborder services in the internal market. there have been reports on this before, too, which have raised important questions. in her report, mrs roithová pointed out that we still have many shortcomings in the internet sector in particular and that consumers, particularly in the internet sector, do not yet have the necessary confidence in crossborder services. in his report mr lehtinen also points out the obligations of service providers and the question of what legal protection can be given to consumers. i would like to return to a subject which has already been mentioned by two previous speakers today, namely the subject of crossborder collective redress. we urgently need initiatives in this direction so that consumers have confidence in crossborder services and this can only be achieved by strengthening their legal position. i think both reports - the roithová report and the lehtinen report - give important indications of the deficits we still have. the commission should take both reports seriously when it is now doing the work of really revising, modernising and upgrading the consumer acquis.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank the rapporteur. the discussions leading up to this report have always been very fruitful and interesting. most of these discussions are also reflected in the report, although - in my view at least - not all of them, unfortunately, because the report stresses in some places that the completion of the internal market for services is lagging far behind the internal market for goods in the european union. i think that this is not really scientifically or factually provable, because we have the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and other directives in the service sector in addition to the directive on services. secondly, the services sector in the internal market is a much more heterogeneous sector than the goods sector. it ranges from subordinate services to medical or legal services to mass services such as large banking and insurance services. i think it is dangerous to sum up all these services in the way that is done here in parliament. i think that - as some speakers before me have already pointed out - a more nuanced approach would certainly make sense. the third point that is raised again and again, the so-called collective redress, is probably not going to make any more sense by being raised again and again. i think it is clear that parliament expects the commission to examine the various models that already exist in europe in a study to see which would be the best for the european union. i think that says it all on this subject as well. the liability systems in the member states - this is my fourth point - are still very different. this is why a uniform system of obligations for service providers is needed. the clarification of the legal system for these obligations will bring more competition and more choice for consumers, but i believe - as my predecessors have also said in part - that it would be wrong to ask the commission to present a horizontal instrument now. i am very sceptical about the creation of such a liability law at european level.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. education has played and continues to play a key role in the development of the european economy and in the personal development of young people. i fully agree with these and many other statements in the report and i would like to thank the rapporteur and express my appreciation. it is also true that education systems are effective when the resources used lead to the best possible results. these are the objectives pursued by all eu countries, but comparative studies often show the results. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the causes of such differences in outcomes are to be found in the differences in the quality and intensity of teaching, which result in different levels of achievement and thus in unequal distribution of the life chances of young people. i believe it is urgent to stress that the current generation of students is in an international competition for training places after they have completed their education. equal opportunities for all therefore require member states to provide young people with the best possible education in the provision of the intellectual equipment. however, equality of opportunity always has something to do with quality and performance. this in turn requires greater attention to the concepts of quality and performance in the training system. this should not be about equal education for all, but about equal entry opportunities for everyone, and then about the best possible education, taking into account individual abilities and differences in physical and mental capacities.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i, too, am delighted that the important issue of the rise of dyslexia is being discussed here tonight. it's certainly the first time we've talked about it, but it shouldn't be the last. i hope that the commission will do everything it can to promote this issue. we're not starting from scratch on this subject. there are already programmes and initiatives in many member states. it's important to me that we don't talk about dyslexia as a disease or a disability, because that's not true. as mentioned earlier, many children with dyslexia are even gifted. you know, these kids are faster in their minds than they are in their motor skills. we should therefore - and this is my urgent request to the commissioner - first of all take stock of what research has already achieved, what we already have in programmes and initiatives at european level, and then put it all together. one of my concerns is that we don't confuse dyslexia with add. it would be really fatal to throw this in a pot. we also know that add is closely linked to excessive tv viewing, excessive stimulation. on the subject of dyslexia, we should also think about how we can introduce children to books and reading at an early age. it is known that children who read a lot and have easy access to books are less likely to develop dyslexia. this may be one way to stop the alarming increase in dyslexia. we call on the commission to bring together the diversity we have in europe, the different approaches that already exist. another suggestion would be to call a conference where all these people could come together with their different experiences in this field. we know that children are our future and that knowledge is our most important resource in europe. so we should try our best!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can assure you of the full support of our socialist group on all the points raised by mrs kauppi in her report. the report on equal opportunities comes out in the year of equal opportunities for all, and we also have 50 years of equal opportunities policy in the european union. if pressure is not applied and if the facts do not change, then the women of the european union will no longer have confidence in them. the european institute for gender equality was also announced for 2007. what about the board of directors? we as a parliament have a say in this. where is the preparation finally progressing so that work in vilnius can begin this year? the eu's core competences in equal pay - a very large area that has been raised by many colleagues - have not been realised. i think it is a scandal that women are still paid 15% less than men for their work. only sweden is better off by almost 10%. in my country, germany, i am - here, 26% - no longer prepared to accept this. the commission must also show courage and put pressure on the member states. better reconciliation of family and work: mr špidla has taken action here. i like that. we support the idea of involving fathers in the responsibility. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we have therefore, as a group, launched a europe-wide campaign to support this. we want a qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the measures we are taking, for example, through the structural funds. a recent hearing in the committee of the regions revealed that the fact that women benefit much less from the eu budget than men is still almost not taken into account. so gender budgeting is a core requirement that we have here as well. the commission has announced measures in two areas: defining and legally enforcing measures against multiple discrimination and violence against women. we have hardly touched on this today, but it is a burning problem that needs to be solved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have celebrated 50 years of the eu this year, and we can also look back on 50 years of milestones for equality between women and men. but i find the eu commission's conclusion in the 2007 gender equality report bitter. it shows that in many areas equality is just a buzzword and we are still far from reality. we have heard many figures today - there are large differences in the employment rate between men and women and women have higher unemployment rates in many member states with few exceptions. almost a third of women work part-time. we know that women are still significantly underrepresented in the leadership and power centers. the average wage gap of 15% is a scandal, in germany it is as high as 27%! i am also pleased that the commission has brought compulsory parental leave for fathers to the fore. it was clear that the issue of reconciling family and work was on the agenda of the european commission. but in other areas of eu gender equality policy, you seem to have run into a dead end. in the meantime, we are in the dark because we do not hear from you about any political initiatives other than the mentioned inclusion of fathers in parental leave. the gender institute has been mentioned, violence against women. what are you doing to address this wage gap? i don't hear much except poetry. we have an obligation to do as much as possible, including gender budgeting announced for years, but where are the indicators? so you are making gender equality policy in the eu a beacon of hope again by proposing ambitious legislation.
i am very pleased to welcome a delegation of members from the people's republic of china to the visitors' gallery in the chamber. (applause from the centre) the members of the delegation came to strasbourg to meet their colleagues in the european parliament on the occasion of the 25th interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and china. the delegation was chaired by mr wang yingfan, vice-chairman of the committee on foreign affairs of the national people's congress of the people's republic of china. it is composed of five members of the standing committee of the national people's congress accompanied by the chinese ambassador to the european union, his excellency chengyuan, and several high-ranking officials of the foreign affairs department of the national people's congress. this afternoon the delegation will travel to athens, where it will continue its visit to europe. i wish the delegation all the best for their continued stay in the european union.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we expressly state in this resolution that eufor has a bridge role with a limited-time mandate and a follow-up mission. the letter from the government of chad dated 21 september does not indicate that it will agree to this. i therefore have the following supplementary amendment to paragraph 3 (h): 'a clear commitment by the government of chad prior to the start of the eufor deployment is needed to accept the assessment of the international community with regard to the necessity of a successor mission'. and then it goes on in the text.
i have the text here, of course, and the crucial point is: 'after six months the government of chad will assess the initial outcome of this presence with a view to a possible succession to the european union operation by other contingents within the framework of the united nations and with the consent of chad'. that means chad has a veto. if the government doesn't agree, it won't happen. that is why i said that chad should accept the assessment of the international community and not use its veto power. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with mr van orden and the other members - also with regard to the presence of mr wang and the delegation - that this house should send a strong signal. but we have a request to make on paragraph 5 that we amend the text as follows because we have checked what has happened so far in the security council and we are not sure that we have written the text with absolute care. but because we want to be very precise, we ask that we draft paragraph 5 as follows:asks china fully to support a clear statement of the united nations security council condemning the use of brutal force it remains to be seen whether the veto has been invoked, but we need a clear condemnation by the security council, and china should do that, for which we ask for approval.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we should also have tabled an oral amendment on behalf of our group, but i think we can agree on a common line here. i have information that china has already voted against, but not only china, but also the other permanent member of the security council, russia. that is why i would agree to adopt the formulation of martin schulz, so that we have china and russia standing there.
mr borghezio, i shall now give an answer for the occasion. we have taken action and i would like to reiterate that we will not accept that, in any event, when high-ranking personalities or personalities in general want to visit the european parliament, that this is prevented by anyone in the world. this has also been made clear to those concerned by the president of the european parliament. the dalai lama is always welcome in the european parliament!
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.50 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 27 september 2007.
i am not going to go into detail. i have the sad duty to inform you of the death of a colleague and former colleague. our colleague fausto correia died yesterday morning. he was born in coimbra on 29 october 1951 and lived to be only 55 years old. he leaves behind his wife and three sons. he studied law at his home university of coimbra, and then had a distinguished career as a lawyer, journalist and then politician in portugal. he was a long-time member of the portuguese parliament and also served as secretary of state to prime minister antónio guterres. he has been a member of the european parliament since 2004. in portugal, fausto correia was and remains known and loved for his tireless, lifelong commitment to democracy and his dedication to the fundamental values of brotherhood and friendship. fausto correia will be sorely missed by his family, his friends and by us, his colleagues. a condolence book for members and staff of the european parliament is displayed outside the chamber during this week's sitting on wednesday and thursday. it is with great sadness that we have learned of the death of our former colleague, christian de la malène, who was twice a member of the european parliament, from 1959 to 1961 and from 1962 to 1994. christian de la malène, who was also a former minister under president de gaulle and a senator, died on 26 september at the age of 86. as former chairman of the group of the european people's party and of the group of the european democratic alliance, christian de la malène was a convinced european with heart and mind. throughout his life he has been committed to a strong and democratic europe, to a political community. christian de la malène was a colleague and friend who will be remembered for his humanism and political commitment. in this sense, we should remember him with gratitude. i would ask that you hold a silent memorial for our departed colleagues. (the assembly rises to a moment of silence.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today is not just the international day against the death penalty. the council of europe, with its 47 member states, supported by the european parliament and the european commission, also declared 10 october as the european day against the death penalty. we are very pleased to have among us on this day the nurses from bulgaria and the doctors who have recently escaped the death penalty in libya. (parliament adopted the resolution) i would like to take this opportunity to extend a very warm welcome on behalf of the house to the nurses, mrs nasya nenova, mrs kristiyana valcheva, mrs snezhana dimitrova, mrs valya chervenyashka, mrs valya siropulo and to the doctors, mr ashraf ahmed gomma el hagous and mr zdravko gueorguiev. they had to spend eight years in custody in libya since february 1999 after being falsely accused of intentionally infecting hundreds of libyan children with hiv. we are against the death penalty. we have therefore repeatedly called on the libyan authorities in the past to release the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. the death penalty is a serious violation of human rights, and above all of the right to life. i would therefore like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the european parliament, to stress our unwavering commitment to the fight against the death penalty. we attach great importance to this in our relations with our neighbours and partners all over the world. we thank those countries which have recently abolished the death penalty, especially rwanda. this example shows that even states whose citizens have suffered the most horrific crimes are renouncing the death penalty as a means of justice. another opportunity to promote the abolition of the death penalty worldwide is the olympic games, which will be held in beijing next year. they offer an opportunity to break the walls of silence that china has built around the use of the death penalty. the european union has submitted a draft resolution on the death penalty to the united nations general assembly. this initiative, which has been praised on many occasions by the european parliament, is an important step towards the abolition of the death penalty, and we call on the portuguese presidency of the council to actively promote this issue at the united nations in new york. the european parliament has devoted much debate to this issue and has adopted three resolutions on the death penalty this year alone. the european parliament has never dealt so intensely with a subject. we are firmly opposed to the death penalty in any form and for any reason. the member states of the european union have achieved, on the basis of our common values, to become a community without the death penalty. the commitment to this is also enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. as soon as the charter becomes legally binding under the reform treaty, we can even say that the death penalty has been abolished at all levels in the european union. i am glad and grateful that no member state of the european union has questioned the abolition of the death penalty in the charter of fundamental rights or ever seriously considered its reintroduction. the european union can thus also, in its action as a global actor, refer to and defend this extraordinary achievement in the field of human rights. in memory of the victims, i ask you to observe a silent commemoration. today, on the european and international day against the death penalty, we, the european parliament, call on all those states which still execute people to follow our example: abolish the death penalty! the european union is ready and willing to offer you its assistance. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank mr cohn-bendit very much. i will do what you have asked of me out of conviction and duty.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the informal summit of heads of state or government in lisbon on 18 and 19 october 2007.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that before i refer specifically to the item on the agenda which brings us here today, and brings me here, i would like to express our gratitude to you, on behalf of the portuguese government and also of the portuguese presidency of the council, for the very warm and friendly reference, and i think also very fair, which you have made to the unexpected and very painful disappearance of my compatriot and member of this parliament, dr fausto correia. the portuguese people were shocked by this news because it was the news of the disappearance of someone who was, indeed, a good man and who was, for all of us, an example of the struggle for human dignity and for the values in which we believe: the values of the rule of law and the values of respect for human rights. his immense loss is a fact, we must only try, if we are able, to follow his example and i sincerely thank this parliament for the tribute it has paid him, as the portuguese government obviously does too. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. mr president, last year i spoke to parliament about what the commission saw as the motor of progress in today’s european union and we outlined the so-called ‘twin-track’ approach – an activist policy agenda and an ambitious approach to the treaty reform were goals that supported each other. there was a lot of consensus in that debate, and i think there were three reasons for that. first of all, it reflects a degree of maturity in the european union, because europe today touches on so many areas of people’s lives, and this has created expectations. retreating into a lowest-common-denominator europe would be a big mistake. second, i think that the challenge of communicating europe with and to our citizens demanded a fresh approach, with a more profound awareness of how europe relates to their social needs, their economic aspirations and their underlying values. finally, this new approach was based not just on political instinct: it was grounded in the work launched by the commission in its plan ‘d’ for democracy, dialogue and debate, in which so many members of this parliament took such an active part. the informal european council next week will be the twin-track approach in action. on the one hand, we should see the heads of state and government concluding the intergovernmental conference (igc) and agreeing a new reform treaty. on the other, the presidency has signalled its intention to deepen the debate on how europe responds to globalisation. so, to start with the reform treaty: we now have a text in front of us and this is a major achievement. i want to pay tribute to the work of the portuguese presidency, as we have to the german presidency, for the way they have moved the process forward calmly and steadily, showing great commitment. like my colleague from the presidency, i also want to pay tribute to parliament for its constructive role in this last phase. we have worked well together, and, thanks to mr brok, mr barón crespo and mr duff, we have a better treaty, in terms of its provisions on rights and citizenship. we will also be giving the charter of fundamental rights full status through a formal proclamation. remember how many said that an eu of 27 would never be able to agree a treaty text again. we are on the verge of proving them wrong yet again. the determination of all of us to reach agreement also points to a europe with plenty of ideas for the future. if we agree a deal next week, the agreement to stick closely to the mandate will have been vindicated. we now have to carry this past the final hurdles. i am sure that the heads of state and government will be fully aware that an atmosphere of recrimination and dispute at lisbon would do nothing to help the process of ratification. of course, we would have liked to avoid opt-outs, but, if that was the price of making progress with an ambitious reform treaty, we have to accept it. it is the nature of compromise and negotiation. i would also like to thank parliament for having responded rapidly and efficiently to the invitation of the european council to come up with proposals for its future composition. this is a difficult and sensitive issue for all of you, as it is for member states, and i would emphasise the need for agreement by both parliament and the council. one last word on the treaty: political agreement by the european council is an important step, but, as we all know, it is not the end of the story. i hope we will be able to work together during the ratification process, seeing it as an opportunity to communicate, to explain and to listen about the european union. where possible, we should coordinate, as the commission proposed last week in a new paper entitled ‘communicating europe in partnership’. we also need a treaty that is as accessible and understandable as possible, with a consolidated text that should be made available as soon as possible after the conclusion of the igc. during this ratification process, leading up to the european parliament elections in 2009, the delivery of our policy agenda for europeans will be equally important in setting the mood, and next week, thanks to the presidency, we will have a debate on europe and globalisation. this is very timely: every year it becomes more and more clear that globalisation is central to the concerns of this generation of europeans. it touches every citizen in one way or another: the goods and services we buy, the television we watch, the energy we use and the work we do. the european union has been successfully developing a policy which recognises the fundamental link between economic success and social security. but globalisation is not static, as this summer’s turbulence in the financial markets showed all too clearly. we need to adapt constantly to changing circumstances. last week, as mr lobo antunes has mentioned, the commission adopted a paper for this debate that will also set the scene for proposals later this year on reviewing the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. it argues that europe must shape up for globalisation in order to deal successfully with the pressure it puts on our economies, our institutions and our citizens, but also to seize the opportunities for greater prosperity, for lifting people out of poverty, for new markets for our products, for closer cooperation and for more sharing of values. the paper also states very clearly that globalisation is not some irresistible external force of nature, with the eu as a passive bystander. we can shape globalisation and shape it, to some extent, in our own image. that is our task: to be confident enough about our values, our vision and the tools at our disposal to ensure that europe succeeds in the age of globalisation. it also rejects protectionism. yes to protecting our citizens, but no to protectionism that can only impoverish them. it also serves notice on our partners: we will not be a soft touch; we will defend the european interest. that means a level playing field; it means ensuring that openness is a two-way street; it means making clear that we will not water down our high standards of health, safety, environmental and consumer protection. the paper is equally uncompromising when it comes to our values. we can prosper in the age of globalisation, but we will want to do it our own way. our growth will have to be sustainable. we have set ambitious targets for cutting greenhouse gas emissions and using renewable energy sources, and we will meet them. the meeting will provide an important opportunity to restate europe’s leadership role in the run-up to bali. we will use our social models to spread the benefits of globalisation throughout our society. they are among our biggest assets. they will help our citizens to adapt and equip them for dealing successfully with rapid change. the tripartite social summit just before the informal european council will provide an excellent opportunity to set the scene. it is clear that, today, the european union offers a route for europeans to make the most of globalisation, to provide a continental context that individual countries cannot match. to deliver this european interest, we have a ready-made tool in the shape of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. our economic analysis shows that the lisbon strategy is beginning to deliver. the paper points to a number of policy areas that deserve even greater attention during the next three-year cycle up to 2010: education and flexicurity, including more attention to active inclusion policies and adequate social protection; a fifth freedom for ideas and researchers; eco-innovation; a small business act for europe to help millions of small companies across the eu to grow and create more jobs. none of this is easy, but it is achievable. i know that this parliament will remain intimately involved in following the progress of the lisbon strategy at both eu and national level. your views on the points sketched out here will be an essential input for the package, which we will adopt in december. the informal european council is an important rendezvous at an important time. let us use the opportunity to show europeans that the european union is looking ahead, shaping its policies to meet tomorrow’s challenges and equipping itself with the right tools. (applause)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have an example of good cooperation between two council presidencies: the german presidency, which prepared a mandate which has now proved to be extremely stable, far-reaching and profound in its implementation by the portuguese presidency. the fact that we are now faced with the situation after the work of the legal experts, that the issues are manageable and manageable and that this may be even more successful in the framework of the foreign ministers next monday, shows that there is a really good chance that the reform agreement will be concluded on thursday next week. the three representatives decided to support this mandate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to the capacity of an enlarged union, and to greater capacity to deal with the new challenges we face in this world, from energy security to terrorism, foreign and security policy as a whole, globalisation, organised crime to climate change and many more. this has been achieved by the fact that we have improved decision-making powers in the council, that new responsibilities have been added in the field of energy security and that in the field of justice and home affairs, which my colleague will discuss in a moment, we have the dismantling of the third pillar, and here the european parliament - and this is the second gain - becomes more equal in its co-decision on these questions, so that in future, with this treaty, in 95 per cent of the cases of legislation, the european parliament will have equal co-decision rights, also in the field of agricultural policy and the budget as a whole. it is often forgotten that all this is included in this package. this means that the democratic gap that the european union has had so far will be closed decisively. this is a major advance! other countries in difficulty have been given opportunities under this mandate and in the negotiations to compensate by an opt-out with clear deadlines, which does not impede overall development but preserves their opportunities under the common law and so on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the charter of fundamental rights, by becoming legally binding, makes this union a community of values, even with the opt-out that some may have. but this does not apply to european decisions, because european legislation is made as a whole. the only question is whether it applies in individual member states, where the rights of judges and citizens are concerned, and we must see that the charter of fundamental rights and the creation of legal personality are also pushing us into a new dimension here. the european union has a number of points to consider. point 1: article 24 of the mandate data protection in external relations needs to be reworded in my view, or it needs to be clarified by a statement that it does not concern general data protection issues such as pnr . this is yet to be clarified. data protection citizens' data may not be disclosed without judicial control and parliamentary involvement. i think that is a very important question. the second point concerns transitional arrangements. i would also like to ask the council and the commission for support, and this is in the commission's interest. if the treaty enters into force on 1 january 2009, it will not be possible for the foreign minister, who we are no longer allowed to call the high commissioner, to be appointed by the council in a 'light' procedure. we want all this to be resolved in 2009 in a package, in full respect of the rights of the european parliament. the high commissioner is also vice-president of the commission and must submit to everything. the commission's interest is also there: a future president of the commission must have a say in the selection of the high commissioner, who is also vice-president. the high commissioner cannot therefore take office until the european parliament has elected the president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we'll have to do some fine-tuning in the next few days. (applause from the centre)
thank you, elmar brok, i'd have been surprised if you'd taken nine minutes. the next speaker of the representatives in the intergovernmental conference, enrique barón crespo.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to thank the representatives of parliament in the intergovernmental conference. our colleagues enrique barón crespo, elmar brok and andrew duff have represented the interests of the european parliament in an excellent way. i would like to thank them very much on behalf of our group. (applause from the centre) we have rightly heard from mr daul that the portuguese presidency of the council is now in a position to complete what was necessary after the failure of the attempt to draft a european constitution, namely to present a revised and revised treaty, to agree among 27 countries on the essential elements of the reforms needed in the eu, to secure the legal and political unification process at an intergovernmental conference which is now coming to an end, to finalise things at the summit in lisbon and then to move on to the really decisive phase, namely the ratification of this revised treaty in 27 member states under the specific legal and constitutional conditions of each country. i therefore want to stress that we can be optimistic about lisbon. if we compare what was achieved under the german presidency of the council at the summit as a mandate for the intergovernmental conference here in brussels with what was worked out at the intergovernmental conference, we can also assume, following the reports of our representatives, that this is almost - with a few exceptions - equivalent. we in the socialist group say: it must be so! we cannot and will not accept as socialists changes which go beyond the mandate agreed here in brussels. but we are assuming that we have a draft on the table which corresponds to what was agreed here in june and for which we all praised mrs merkel. if we take this to lisbon, it'll be interesting. the question then will be whether this treaty will be ratified by 27 member states, and then it will be up to the members of this house to fight. then we must fight in all the countries to ensure that the work of european unification is also accepted. i would venture to say that if this revised treaty fails again - as the constitution has failed - it will be the end of the european union as it stands today. the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome for a long time, and it is not the council that has been the party to the treaty of rome. i hope, mr daul, that all the members of your group will do the same. i have my doubts. i will also tell you what we have to keep in mind in this house if the project fails. what will happen if the european union fails to make its next attempt to bring the revised treaty to fruition? what is the european union up to? europeans believe that we are one big continent: 500 million inhabitants in 27 member states, one big single market. we make up 8% of the world's population. india has 1.1 billion people, china has 1.3 billion, and those two countries together make up a third of the world's population. if we want to remain competitive in the long term, if we want to defend the social gains we have made in europe, if we want to stabilise the economic base which is the prerequisite for social justice, then we must be able to survive in the global group. but we can only survive globally if this union is united - economically, socially and politically. that's why she needs this reform treaty! if this eu breaks up into its individual parts, if we follow the nationalists who tell the peoples that we can do better alone than 27 countries together, then this continent is heading for bad times! i hope that what is agreed in lisbon will survive ratification, and that is why we will have to fight. if we want peace in europe, if we want europe to be a factor of peace in the world, if we want economic growth and more jobs and fair distribution in the union, we must strengthen, defend and enforce this reform treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but europe is a concept born of the wounds of war on this continent, and that is why european unification on the basis of a reformed treaty is the aim of all the democratic and progressive forces on this continent. i therefore wish you the best of luck with the igc and the summit. but much more luck for ratification in 27 states. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we should commend the portuguese presidency for the way in which it has conducted the negotiations: very committed and very focused. i think it is good that you have, with a few exceptions, adhered strictly to the mandate of june and have resisted the many extra demands, from the desire of the european central bank to have its own article to austria's desire to limit the number of students from other countries. all of this is not part of the new contract, and i think you're on the right track. it's not long before we have a consensus on the new treaty. painful are the opt-outs. this gives the impression of disunity and disunity. this is fragmenting the eu and it is taking time to take decisions in the third pillar. this is a real drop in the bucket, especially what britain wanted. andrew duff had talked about a self-service mentality. i hope that's not a school. i think the essential wishes from london have all been fulfilled. i was concerned to read what was discussed in the house of commons yesterday. there's nothing to do. it would be unacceptable to make any further demands now. the desire of poland to anchor ioannina somehow will be discussed, but it cannot be that the blockade capacity will be increased. we want to increase the capacity for action. this has to be an exceptional case. that was a gentlemen's agreement, and it cannot become the rule. i hope that the commission and the council will be able to proclaim the charter here in the plenary chamber of parliament with the three institutions. that would be a really good signal to the citizens out there. i also hope that mrs wallström's wish to have the right to information for citizens will be reflected in the treaty. two-thirds of the people feel uninformed. that would be a nice addition to the contract. mr president-in-office of the council, parliament will do everything possible to ensure that there is a treaty of lisbon. i thank our three representatives and also the president, who will ensure that this happens at the summit in lisbon.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have fought for more democracy and more efficiency in the constitutional process - and now in the process of this reform treaty - with some success, but there is really no question of transparency. the council presidency has presented this house with the information it has already been able to read in the newspapers. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. that is why the fight for transparency must continue! where this parliament has been very much involved - and i am extremely grateful to our representatives for this - is in the fight for more rule of law. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of personal data in the field of the common foreign and security policy, increased parliamentary participation, the abolition of the third pillar in favour of a common internal and judicial policy, the legal binding nature of the charter - these are all issues of central importance for liberals, which concern our common values. as for the opt-outs, let me say this: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i am sure that the commission will continue to do so. in the field of internal politics, they may have to do with a legal culture, national traditions, different ideas of social values. i can understand it now, although i don't approve of the opt-out. what i cannot understand or approve of at all is the blockade by some member states, particularly the united kingdom, in the area of the common foreign and security policy. timothy kirkhope has just said that we should develop policy where the people support it. the citizens support a credible common foreign and security policy. it is objectively necessary in the face of the challenges we face: the fight against terrorism, the crisis in the middle east, the fight against poverty, infectious diseases, migration. there are a number of challenges that we can only overcome together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the us, china, india and the uk? no one believes that! neither germany nor france. we'll either make it together or we won't make it at all! we need a european spirit and we need this reform treaty!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the report provides a clarification for which i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr lamassoure and mr severin. it shows that we always use up the upper limit and the lower limit. i would like to thank you very much for that. this is a clarification that is important for all of us. secondly, there are two conclusions to be drawn from this report. firstly, the less degressivity we have, that is to say, the more we orient ourselves towards proportionality, the more real authority and legitimacy parliament has. the debate about how much degressiveness we need - how much less, how much more - has to be fought over and over again, and i think it's logical to say that the less degressiveness, the more legitimacy. as a german, i can add that it is of course a bit problematic that we germans are the only ones who get less than on the basis of nice. we are asking for a lot of support here, because the discussion in the german press is very clear on this point. we are supporting this because we also believe that the european aspect is more important than all the others. finally, two lessons that we should take to the future. first, we should really work towards a long-term logical system that we don't have to re-discuss all the time. secondly, there are two controversial amendments, nos 2 and 3. our group has decided that, whatever the outcome of the vote on the two controversial subjects, the group will vote in favour of the lamassoure/severin report. the council has no excuse. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's budget is properly used and that the budget is properly used. i think that this is why our parliament and all the political groups have, after weighing up many aspects, fulfilled their duties, and the council can decide if it is of good will. thank you for the fairness of the discussion on a difficult subject!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in my group there are different views. i do, however, support the report by mr lamassoure and mr severin. the report is a responsible exercise of parliament's right of initiative to submit its own proposal on its future composition. it does so thanks to the intensive work of both rapporteurs in a truly european spirit. the proposal is balanced, it is based on a clear, comprehensible and transparent system, and it is also viable in view of future enlargements. the proposal follows the principle of plurality. the use of all 750 seats available will ensure that the parliament continues to reflect the spectrum of the main political orientations from each country. and: the proposal is based on the principle of solidarity, whereby the most populous large states accept to be less present in order to allow for a better representation of the most populous small states. all this contributes to strengthening the cohesion of the union. i therefore hope that the council will implement parliament's proposal without reservations and swiftly before the 2009 elections. one final note: the basis for calculating the number of seats in a state is, as in the case of the council, all the people living in that state, including third-country nationals, because they are part of that society. but that's only one side of the coin. third-country nationals who have their place of residence in our member states must also be given the right to vote in the european parliament. i have always fought for this and i will continue to fight for it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are already making the distribution of seats in 2009, whereas the new formula for the distribution of votes in the council of ministers will not come into force until 2014. but we are ready to start this operation for the next period now. however, the whole proposal is only valid under the condition of a new treaty. if the new treaty is not applied, the treaty of nice and the accession treaties will remain, which means that all countries will have fewer seats. that is why there should be a great deal of interest in supporting this proposal in the plenary tomorrow. i thank the two rapporteurs lamassoure/severin for the work they have done. i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposal. no one is discriminated against. on the contrary, a proposal has been made which is plausible and follows criteria which are objective and which allow the allocation of the seats we have. we must continue the debate that our italian colleagues have started, namely the debate on whether the concepts of citizenship in the european union are the same as those of citizenship at national level. the nation state has closed the borders and excluded everyone else. the eu is based on a different concept, and we are indeed in the process of deepening this debate so that we represent all the inhabitants of the eu and not just those who hold the passport of a member state. there are 30 million people in the eu who do not have a passport from a member state, but who follow our laws. we shall return to this in the next period. i thank you for this proposal, which now puts us on the road to a successful conclusion of the intergovernmental conference and the new european treaty.
i have to say, madam president, let me start by saying that the fdp mps have cleared this vote for tomorrow. so there will be no uniform line. why is that? there is a dilemma. of course, the situation for germany is deteriorating. the number of voters per member will now be 858 000 instead of 832 000. parliament wants to do this as early as 2009. the council will not start until 2014. this is one of the points referred to. even good german newspapers such as the berliner tagesspiegel write that the seats will be redistributed tomorrow. there are colleagues here in parliament who say that germany will lose three seats tomorrow. the problem -- and this is going to the part where i personally stand -- is that this is wrong. the lamassoure/severin report guarantees the maximum number of seats that germany can get under the treaty. the maximum number of seats has already been fixed at nice at 96. the report states this clearly. so why this debate? why the provocation of the hundt procedure, where only the big countries win and the small ones lose massively? it is a proposal which, to my great surprise, is supported, even initiated, by my colleagues in the cdu. what are you doing? i believe that this is an un-european proposal. the balance, the fair and just balance between large, medium and small countries is being lost. it is also a proposal that has no chance in the council. do we and our cdu colleagues really believe that in belgium, ireland, sweden or estonia there is no way to analyse and that this proposal will be accepted by the council? i'm not going to. this proposal is an empty bubble which will burst without any consequence, with one exception. this is a further consequence of the deterioration of the political climate in europe in our own country. we should support the lamassoure/severin report. we should ensure that the european parliament sends a strong political signal to the council that we can take care of our own affairs. if this signal, a european signal, is strong, then that is good for all of us, and i am including germany specifically.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to apologize to the rapporteur of the green paper on the marine environment, mr willi piecyk. he can't be here today, and he asked me to give him my best. i would like to commend the work of the environment committee on the landing of the vessels. this has been taken up, and it is very good for the air quality in europe if we can bring about such a decision, and also very good for the saving of co2. the green paper on maritime policy also mentions the inclusion of ships in the emissions trading system. we are in the first reading on the inclusion of air transport in the emissions trading scheme. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to say a few words about the report on regulation 1290/2005 on the financing of the common agricultural policy. first of all, i would like to thank mr chatzimarkakis and the committee members for their efforts. the commission proposal contains two items which are of political importance. first, to provide for the necessary follow-up on the relevant part of article 53b on the financial regulation, which stipulates that the transparency obligation and ex post publication of beneficiaries by the member states must be ensured by sector-specific legislation. second, to reinforce the mechanism by which financial discipline is safeguarded through a new reduction-suspension mechanism of agricultural aid, which is more structured and more transparent than the current mechanism already laid down in the regulation, and by introducing the possibility for the commission to make financial corrections for failing ex post controls. the commission is very much in favour of openness and transparency. one element of this is the right of the public to know what is happening with the community aid and to see who is receiving what amounts. article 53 of the financial regulation sets out that there should be an ex post publication of beneficiaries by member states. the follow-up to this general obligation is, as far as eaggf and eafrd spending is concerned, to be found in the commission’s proposal. the commission insists very much on the member states publishing this information, as, under shared management, they are the contact for the farming community and are therefore in a much better position than the commission to validate the information to be published. i am very grateful for you support on this issue. the commission will take inspiration from some of the amendments proposed when it adopts the implementing legislation, but it would not be in line with better regulation and simplification if all the – sometimes very technical – details were put into the council regulation. however, let me make one thing clear. beneficiaries are to be informed beforehand of the fact that certain information needs to be published, and publication will take place only within the context of the full respect of the privacy legislation applicable. as you know, there is already a reduction-suspension mechanism in regulation 1290/2005. in comparison with that mechanism, the proposed provision offers a new transparent and effective mechanism allowing a further simplification of the existing possibility to reduce or suspend payments to a member state in case of serious and persistent deficiencies in the national control systems. this new provision has the advantage that certain elements are determined in advance, so as to ensure a more efficient use of such an instrument. it goes without saying that the reduction mechanism already in place will continue to be applicable for other types of cases. however, amendments aimed at diluting the reduction mechanism are not acceptable to the commission. finally, i have noted quite a number of amendments aimed at further reinforcing the overall system for the management of agricultural expenditure which are not related to our proposal. on these, i think that the present text strikes a good balance, and we should give all actors time to put it into practice before considering any changes to the rules which, after all, just entered into force less than a year ago.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thank you very much for finding the time to come here tonight, despite the late hour. it is not a marginal issue of minor importance, it is european agricultural policy. i would like to remind you first of what the european agricultural policy actually means for the vast majority of our almost 500 million citizens. these are the people for whom plenary debates are designed. and yet, it is clear that for many citizens, the eu's agricultural policy is first and foremost a badge of the eu. but unfortunately, in the most negative sense. export subsidies, alleged unfair trade with the so-called third world, feed scandals, farmers' protests, excessive subsidies, genetically modified crops - the number of negative issues in european agricultural policy is immense and unfathomable. the failure of the european agricultural policy is a major factor in the eu's poor reputation in many parts of europe. that reputation, ladies and gentlemen, will not be wiped out with a wave of the hand tonight. but with this report - and provided that the council follows it - european agricultural policy can be put on a new course, one closer to the aspirations of the majority of citizens. i would like to begin by referring to the commission's proposal: the commission proposal essentially contains four elements: transparency, i.e. publication of the beneficiaries of agricultural payments; introduction of the possibility of suspending payments to first pillar member states in the event of serious infringements in the management and control system; reduction of the commission's review periods in the event of non-compliance with control obligations (exceptions to the so-called 24-month rule); and adaptation of the implementing powers. the ep is also calling for the commission to be given the right to adopt a new directive on the protection of the environment. the commission is thus finally implementing the decision of the council and parliament on the 2007 budget. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission's eafrd implementing regulations already provide for publication of all recipients of payments under the second pillar. the other funds (regional, fisheries and cohesion funds) now also have all the rules on publication. the budget decision has made transparency a matter of principle, not of 'if' but of 'how'. 11 member states already publish all payments in full. so we need more transparency. the lack of transparency has given rise to rumours and disinformation campaigns that have done more damage to the cap than individual errors. the only problem is with the 'how' procedure, since the commission does not give any further details on the procedure and wants to regulate all the detailed rules in implementing regulations. as this is an interference with the right to informational self-determination, i have proposed in my report some clarifications as to which data should be published and under what conditions. i am referring specifically to an opinion of the european data protection supervisor. we must take data protection very seriously, despite all the wishes for rapid implementation! and that is what we are doing here in the european parliament. the objectives of this report are: more transparency, and at the same time clearer data protection requirements. the general public must also be informed. now, how can this spaghetti be made? i believe that prior information of those concerned is essential and that transparency is only possible if we can do something with the figures. i therefore propose a more detailed differentiation, for example by the purpose of the intervention. i'll put in my report the name, payment and address of the company. transparency today means publishing on the internet. the commission is to set up a general internet platform with links and references. member states are invited to make the data understandable by providing explanatory notes. member states are allowed to publish data at regional level if this is considered appropriate. different databases need to be linked. the question of who publishes was a matter of great controversy in the council. it is a mixed financial management, and this is clearly the responsibility of the member states. so too does article 53b of the budget decision. publication by the commission also raises legal protection problems, since those affected by a mispublication must then go directly to the european court of first instance. that's not civic-friendly and not exactly transparent. the commission's proposal is simpler, more transparent, less administrative and more citizen-friendly and i therefore support it. it is in line with the rules in all other areas (the structural funds and the rules which have hitherto applied to the second pillar). since the publication of data is linked to budgetary control, my report proposes a flat-rate (but moderate) penalty payment for failure to publish. i am in favour of reducing penalties in principle, but i would like to see the principle of proportionality taken more into account in some areas. my colleague, jan mulder, has made proposals in the committee on budgetary control on the budgetary dimension of the dossier, which i can fully support. the committee on budgets has expressed its opinion on the transparency aspects, and this largely agrees with my proposals. ladies and gentlemen, and in particular, honourable members of the council. this report was unanimously adopted by the committee on agriculture. i hope for a large majority in the vote tomorrow. i urge the council and the commission to take this vote by the european people's representatives seriously. this report and the way in which all those involved deal with it are certainly also linked to the health check to be held. we shall certainly return to this subject during this health check.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to thank mr chatzimarkakis for his report, which the epp group can support in all its aspects. the question is, was this regulation necessary? it will lead to intense envy-based discussions because it is difficult to present the context to the citizens. i therefore think it is good that when payments to farmers are published, the reasons for these payments should be explained. our farmers make a valuable contribution to our society, providing us with food every day, maintaining our cultural landscape and making a major contribution to the functionality of the countryside. but transparency cannot be a one-way street. it has to be mutually beneficial. that is why my group supports the report's call for the user to log in and register to use the information. it is also important - as the honourable member has just mentioned - that the directive does not override data protection rules, especially those of the member states. i would ask the commission, however, in the interests of equal treatment, to come forward with a regulation to ensure transparency, for example, also in the case of non-governmental organisations. i am convinced that more eu money is going to dubious projects here than in agriculture. we have the opportunity in this report to show the public why the taxpayer is spending money on agriculture. if we use this report wisely, we can succeed in making the public aware of the importance of european agriculture, and then this transparency directive will have served its purpose.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not transparency is necessary, not only in agriculture, but also in agriculture. mr. dess, you said that money goes to shady projects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. in the budgets of recent years, billions of dollars have been allocated to farmers, but they have not reached them. the whole of the export subsidies for farmers, the whole of the european union's intervention practice of stockpiling, has swallowed up billions of dollars, but has not helped the farmers. it has at most - and this is what the liberal colleague said - kept prices down by stabilizing the market downwards, which is a kind of brake on inflation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also true what the rapporteur said, that there must be a frame of reference, that you cannot just publish it. i would like to give you a frame of reference: even after the reform of the agricultural policy, a rationalised farm where one worker has 400 hectares - this is the highest level of rationalisation - will receive approximately 120 000 euros per worker at 300 euros per hectare. 80% of the farmers don't get a tenth of that! so it is also a question of explaining what happens to these funds. we must establish this framework politically, it does not come about automatically with publication. the commission's proposal to introduce a modulation in the second pillar, because the money is being spent more on labour and the environment, is a precursor to what we are now expecting, namely the discussion after this publication. and then we have to let politics rule again. but the numbers have to speak, they have to stand, and we have to endure that, and if they don't, then we have to change the policy so that the numbers are right again. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the upper house is much more concerned with spending money than with receiving it. that is why it is a great credit to the state that we are turning today to the trifle of revenue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it's a good thing we're talking about this today. there are obviously winners and you, commissioner, can only be congratulated on that. we are pleased that we have succeeded - also in cooperation with the member states - in finding ways of doing so. it is imperative to strengthen the future of olaf, the european anti-fraud office, so that it can play its role in the eu even better and more efficiently. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are all very proud of these achievements, because it was these experts who made them possible. the fact that progress has been made in the dossier on counterfeit tobacco products and that the member states have also taken part is not something that can be taken for granted, particularly in this area. we would like to see this applied to other operations which are concerned with the protection of the union's financial interests, including the fight against vat fraud. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money, and we have to be very careful about the way we use it. i believe that continuing the fight against cigarette smuggling is an important task, that the deployment of an olaf investigator in beijing is urgently needed and that we need to increase our presence worldwide. the question now is how we can put pressure on the other cigarette manufacturers to join the agreement between philip morris and the community in the member states. i think we need to think very carefully about how we're going to follow up now and how we're going to stay on top of this, because otherwise we're going to discredit ourselves.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to reject the arguments of mrs lichtenberger and mr romagnoli. of course, there is no total reciprocity of rights, but in relation to the previous situation, this is a balanced agreement. that is why we are voting for it. if you think it is not a balanced agreement, you can vote against it, but we and the rapporteur think that this is a balanced first step and we agree that a second step must follow. i support the rapporteur's request, of course, as my colleague mr rack has already said, that we should move quickly to the second stage. we should just use what we've agreed to. i therefore call on the european airlines to take advantage of the new opportunities which this agreement gives them to exercise their ownership and control, to establish licences, to pursue a brand policy and to participate in part in the american government programme. they should not wait for the second stage but should use the first stage now so that when we enter the second stage of the negotiations we can benefit from the first stage experience and see what we are still lacking in terms of the rights of our european companies in the american market. we must call on the administration and also on our commission to use the possibilities of this agreement, for example to agree on a more sustainable one-stop security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. my colleagues and i thank the commission, with whom we have worked well on this case, but we must also insist that we also work well on the negotiation of the second agreement. i warn the americans to accept mr oberstar's proposal, because if they try to undermine this agreement with all their unilateral proposals, we will react strongly. so let us tell the americans that we are still willing to talk between congress and the european parliament, but they must not undermine the agreement by unilateral interpretation.
the commission has already done so. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his clear description of the situation and his position. first of all, the positive aspect, which my predecessor also mentioned. the open skies agreement between the united states and europe finally provides the opportunity to fly from the european union via the united states to third countries such as mexico or south america. and it is possible for any community airline to fly from anywhere in the european union to anywhere in the united states without any price or capacity limitations. i agree with the rapporteur that these opportunities must be seized. the agreement also provided for progress in the area of investment in us airlines. the open skies agreement thus represents an important first step towards the creation of an open aviation space without mutual restrictions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of air transport. on the other hand, it must be made clear - and this has already been said - that this is only a first step, it cannot be a final agreement. we expect the commission to negotiate with the united states, as a second step, the outstanding issues of cabotage, right of establishment, property and state aid. the potential for conflict has been made very clear by you, commissioner. but i hope that the work of the transatlantic relations committee will move forward so that we can finally enforce reciprocal rights that really live up to the name of the agreement, open skies. in parallel, the committee should also push for the inclusion of flights from the usa in the emissions trading system, because we know that we did not achieve much at the icao meeting, as you mentioned. and of course, it should express our demand that we want one-stop security.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. many of you have arrived in brussels via the airport in my home town of frankfurt am main. the speed of the handling was crucial to the quality of the ground transport services. they handle loading and unloading, cleaning and refueling the planes, and transporting passengers. but these processes must work together like clockwork. in order to maintain the same level of professionalism at all airports, the european parliament decided in 1996 that, in addition to airport operators, only those service providers would be allowed to operate which guarantee good work in a sustainable manner. but their number is limited. i was then, as i am now, rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs and i was able to prevent a wave of liberalisation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. not every provider can guarantee high training levels, adequate pay levels or good service. the price competition is increasingly turning more and more permanent jobs into low-level temporary contracts. thank you very much, anne jensen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the 1996 directive is properly implemented in all eu member states. the data presented to us are outdated. they only reflect the experience of 15 member states. we call for a careful analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of liberalization, both for workers and for passengers. ground handling services are a key contributor to road safety. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the internal market.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we want to reduce the negative impact of air travel. that is why we have agreed on emissions trading in aviation. we have different timing and different methods, mrs lichtenberger, but in principle we agree that the aviation sector must play its part in reducing the environmental impact. but then, mrs lichtenberger, we must also have the courage to say that for economic reasons we need a growing air transport market, both within and with third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's airports are equipped with the necessary infrastructure and equipment. if airplanes didn't have to stand on the ground for long before they could take off, if they didn't have to fly in airspace for long queues, what do you think we could save for the environment? so we have to say that we want to expand airports. mr blokland is right: we do not want to take away the responsibilities of the member states and the regions, but we have seen that in some parts of europe there are difficulties in developing airports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second point is ground transport services. i think we should wait for the new impact analysis. i think the basic directive has been very successful, the efficiency of ground transport services has been increased in recent years. the cost to passengers has gone down. whether we need further changes is open. i do not want to make any decisions today, but we should wait for the commission's impact assessment, which we can expect for the winter, and only then should we decide whether there is a need for revision or not. we shouldn't make any rash decisions today.
in writing. the report by mr raül romeva i rueda on the murder of women in central america and mexico and the european union’s role in preventing this is a well balanced report. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and his engagement. he led the negotiations in a very sensitive and positive political style. i would also like to thank him for the attention he devoted to this topic. human rights enjoy a high-ranking importance in the european union. luckily, between the eu and mexico, human rights topics play an important role; as part of the free trade agreement they even have a kind of formal character and they also play a crucial role in our joint parliamentary delegation, which i have the pleasure to chair and which is now chaired on the mexican side by senator josé guadarrama márquez.
in writing. i have supported the report by mr raúl romeva i rueda because it clearly identifies the main causes of the murder of women in mexico and central america: the murders are taking place unhindered in a socio-economic environment that is biased towards economic interests. they occur most frequently in the so-called free trade zones with their maquiladora industries (export-market factories), where the absence of social infrastructure is accompanied by high poverty rates and the semi-legal security forces favoured by impunity. this is a structure that is also helped by the eu's trade-facilitated relations with mexico and central america. the eu's association agreement with central america, which is due to be concluded later this year, already in its present form shows that the eu's main interests are market opening and deregulation. the 'creation of an environment favourable to trade and investment' called for by the commission (8.12.2005) leads to precisely those structures which the report rightly identifies as the unfavourable socioeconomic conditions for the high number of murders of women. the report is also an important signal that the human rights clause agreed in the so-called global agreement between the eu and mexico is finally being respected. the work of the associations of relatives and victims must also be strengthened.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 11 october 2007.
i am not going to go into detail. we had a very successful summit last thursday and friday of the heads of state and government of the countries of the european union with the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament and our three representatives in the intergovernmental conference. i do not want to prejudge tomorrow's debate with the president-in-office of the european council, josé sócrates, but i would like to point out that for the european parliament this summit was a very, very great success, because with the entry into force of the treaty, which is due to take place at the beginning of 2009, the european parliament will have equal rights in almost 100 per cent of european legislation. we as the european parliament have followed the convention and the two failed referendums in france and the netherlands, and we are largely responsible for the fact that this treaty is now in existence. we hope that the ratification process in all 27 countries of the european union will be successful. the treaty will be signed in lisbon on 13 december and the day before, on 12 december, - as agreed with the presidents of the european council and the commission - we will proclaim the charter of fundamental rights in a solemn session here in strasbourg. this is a momentous event. i would like to thank in particular our three representatives in the igc - elmar brok, enrique barón crespo and andrew duff - for their work. (applause from the centre) i am glad that my colleague enrique barón crespo is here, but i cannot see the other two representatives. then we'll put the protocol back.
i know that mr cohn-bendit's curiosity is boundless. i can tell you that there was no doubt for a second about the actual procedures. the summit did not raise this issue at all in the official meeting. but there have been these rumors in other circles. i immediately countered them wherever i could. it is impossible that the european council or anyone else could deprive the president of the european parliament - it is not a personal matter, it is the institution of the president of the european parliament - of the right to vote. i would be very against it. we are in agreement on this point too. (applause from the centre)
that's wonderful. i am grateful to you that we are in complete agreement on this point too.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on wednesday 17 october, in accordance with rules 130 and 131, has been distributed to you. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: the commission is also proposing that the council and the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present their views on the draft budget for the european union.
mr bösch, you are a good man. the 'lords' are all of you, all of you are members of parliament. you see, those who sometimes think they are, are then voted down here in the house. this is our democracy. thank you for your comment. thursday:the epp-ed group has asked for the sub-item 'uzbekistan' to be replaced by 'pakistan' in the debate on human rights violations.
it's a great compromise.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
mr president, we should be careful with such language.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteurs, mrs belohorská and mrs klaß, for their extremely diligent work and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, as well as mr ebner and the committee on agriculture and rural development and mrs corbey and the committee on industry, research and energy for their reports and the opinion they delivered at the first reading. over the last thirty years, european union policies and laws to protect public health and the environment have enabled us to make significant progress and to reduce the risks of pesticide use considerably. however, the legislation in force focuses on the authorisation and placing of products on the market and on the control of residues in food and feed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of pesticides is not restricted to the use of certain products. and yet this is the critical stage, which creates the greatest risks to human health and the environment. monitoring programmes in the member states show that pesticide residues are found in food and feed and in the environment at concentrations exceeding the limit values laid down in european legislation. it has also become clear that pesticides are a matter of serious concern to european citizens. we must therefore intensify our efforts to better protect european citizens and our environment. it is in this context, namely to address the risks posed by the use of pesticides to human health and the environment, that the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides and the accompanying framework directive fit in. the main elements of the commission's proposal for a framework directive are as follows: first, each member state will draw up national action plans setting out objectives, measures and timetables for reducing the risks and dependence of pesticides. secondly, professional users of pesticides - mainly farmers - as well as distributors and consultants, should have access to appropriate training, which will provide them with adequate knowledge of the risks of pesticide use and the application of alternative techniques. in the same way, a public awareness system should be set up to provide information on the risks of pesticide use. thirdly, professional pesticide spraying equipment should be subject to regular checks and proper maintenance. fourthly, aerial spraying will be prohibited, but member states will retain the possibility of derogating in a limited number of cases where aerial spraying is the only feasible solution. fifthly, specific measures will be taken to protect the general public and vulnerable groups of the population, as well as water systems and geographical areas such as natura 2000 sites. such specific measures may include, inter alia, the establishment of buffer zones and the prohibition or restriction of the use of pesticides. eighth and last, but equally important, we need to support low pesticide input farming techniques and create the necessary conditions for the implementation of integrated pest management - 'integrated best management' - which should become mandatory from 2014. other measures provided for in the thematic strategy have been incorporated or will soon be incorporated into other legislative acts. these are: proposal for a regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market. the regulation will further restrict harmful active substances on the market, in particular through comparative evaluation and compliance with the principle of substitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. proposal for a regulation on the collection of statistical data on plant protection products. this is a key proposal, which establishes indicators to measure progress in reducing risk. this proposal is now being discussed in the committee responsible for the subject. proposal for a new directive laying down basic requirements for spraying equipment to be placed on the market. it will complement the existing provisions for the maintenance and regular inspection of spraying equipment. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to stress one important aspect of the proposed directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is properly implemented. this is a key measure in the commission proposal, which has been discussed in the various committees of parliament. it is not disputed that we need to reduce our dependence on pesticides and to turn to more environmentally friendly alternative techniques for plant protection or pest control. integrated management and control is the most effective way to achieve this objective and it is therefore particularly important that it be retained in our proposal and made mandatory in all member states from 2014.
member of the commission. mr president, it is indeed a difficult but very important subject that we are going to discuss today. i would like to begin by thanking all those who have worked to make this debate possible today, in particular the rapporteur, mrs breyer. it was and is a difficult issue because a balance must be struck between increasing the protection of health and the environment and simplifying procedures and reducing the administrative burden in order to be able to strengthen competitiveness and innovation. i am convinced that the commission proposal achieves both of these objectives. at the same time, it complements the internal market through the system of mutual recognition of zones, but with flexibility, allowing member states to take measures and adopt restrictions in cases where there are specific risks, specific threats either to health or to the environment, in the whole member state or in specific areas thereof. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the introduction of new products. i wish we didn't need them, because they certainly have an impact on human health, animal health and the environment. it is therefore important to ensure that the relevant rules are effective and balanced. the existing case law dates back to 1991 and, on the basis of a 2001 commission report on functionality and areas for improvement, both the european parliament and the council asked the commission to submit proposals for amending the directive. i do not think anyone is disputing the need to modernise existing legislation. i would like to take this opportunity to thank and acknowledge the very important contribution made by the various stakeholders in the preparation of this proposal. the commission has also carried out a comprehensive impact assessment. the first priority is undoubtedly to achieve the highest possible level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. this will be achieved through various provisions, such as clear and strict criteria for the approval of active substances, the introduction of the central role of the european food safety authority in the evaluation of active substances and the obligation for farmers to keep a record of the use of plant protection products made available to neighbours and the water industry on request. the member states' authorities should also step up controls on the marketing and use of plant protection products, and the commission will examine and monitor whether these controls by the member states are being made effective. the repeal of animal experiments will be permanently banned and, in the context of promoting sustainable agriculture, safer alternatives will replace the most dangerous products. the proposal will thus create a safer framework for the use of plant protection products in the european union and will strengthen environmental protection measures. the proposal reflects the lisbon strategy because it will at the same time reduce the administrative burden - the procedure will be shorter and more efficient - without, however, and i stress this, compromising on the levels of safety and environmental health protection. member states will no longer work in isolation, as mutual recognition of approvals will now be the rule rather than the exception. this will prevent the internal market from being fragmented in the case of plant protection products, and on the other hand it will prevent the market from being fragmented in the case of agricultural products. changes in data protection rules will lead to more transparency and fairer competition without hampering research and innovation. the proposed regulation is one of the pillars of the commission's overall strategy in the field of pesticides. it complements and is compatible with the proposal for a directive on the sustainable use of pesticides, as my colleague mr deimas has already analysed it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. i'd say it's no surprise for such a complex subject. it may mean that we have not yet reached a complete agreement. i am optimistic that in the future and in the next stages of the process, we will be able to achieve this. in the meantime the commission may accept some amendments and reject others. the full list of the commission's positions on each amendment and the corresponding explanation is available to parliament and members. i shall not go into each of the amendments here, because there is certainly not enough time. i would ask that this list be entered in the minutes. i look forward, mr president, honourable members, to a constructive and interesting debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioners dimas and kyprianos, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i welcome the commission's proposal for a framework for action on the sustainable use of plant protection products and i shall speak here today only about this part of the whole package. this is a wide area where much still needs to be adapted across europe for the benefit of consumers and users and, in particular, for the environment. different regulations in the european union not only bring different safety standards, but they are also confusing and distort competition. the time when the crops of an entire year were the victims of pests has, thank god, passed in europe. but we are facing new major challenges today, which we must meet with a sensible plant protection policy. the world's population is growing, food is becoming scarcer worldwide. climate change has changed the conditions for agriculture: new pests are appearing, natural disasters are causing crop failures. so crops still need to be protected, and the use of pesticides helps. as with many things in life, the dose makes the poison. while one sleeping pill is a blessing, many sleeping pills can be deadly. the proper and professional handling of plant protection products must be ensured, as improper use brings risks. this applies not only to agriculture but also to the public sphere, parks, playgrounds, sports grounds, roads and railways. information and education and knowledge of the links, of the benefits, but also of the risks, are the key points of this directive. the seller and the user must be trained and informed. member states must ensure the sustainable use of plant protection products through national action plans. this must be consistent with other community legislation. well-tested and safe planting equipment ensures that plant protection is applied in a targeted manner. the aim is to reduce the risk. an arbitrary percentage reduction in the quantity of all authorised plant protection products undermines the objectives of good agricultural practice as well as those of integrated plant protection. commissioner dimas, we need both levels, we need good technical practice and integrated plant protection in the future too, because we need the dynamic. the strict regulation on authorization would also be rendered absurd. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. however, if pesticides have passed a rigorous approval process, there is no tangible approach to a percentage, flat-rate reduction in quantities. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to explain to me exactly how this is to be handled and calculated. the same applies to the protection of the aquatic environment. arbitrary fixed fixed buffer zones for water bodies are not useful. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. buffer zones must be appropriate to the geographical situation, the soil type and the plants to be treated. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the use of plant protection products are complied with. the spraying from the air. for example, in the steep-sided vineyards on my mosel river, or in the rice fields in southern europe, there is no alternative. the spraying of plant protection products in the air is essential here. however, the use of a jet helicopter must be regulated. special care should be taken in sensitive areas, parks, playgrounds and school grounds. the use of plant protection products must be reduced to the strict minimum, and non-chemical alternatives should be preferred. i think it could be a whole class of schoolchildren being sent to the school grounds to weed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of plants is not restricted to areas of flora and fauna. it is here that plant protection is essential to the preservation of these areas. plant protection is expensive, and no farmer will spend more than is absolutely necessary. additional taxes distort competition on the world market. the consumer will buy the cheaper third country product, and this will do a disservice to the idea of sustainability. we want the same protection and the same standard throughout the eu. in many countries the proposed measures have been a good practice for some time. the commission's approach is therefore the right one. it is now up to all of us - and i invite us all to do so - to put forward a directive which will reduce bureaucracy as much as possible, but which will meet our objectives. i'm asking for your support.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to say to the honourable member that there was no unanimous vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, that we were of the opposite opinion here and that the majority of my group opposed this. i have emphasized that i support the commission's proposal.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. i am pleased to present a report which will provide parliament with a blueprint for greater health, environmental and consumer protection when it votes on it tomorrow. the committee has taken account of the eurobarometer survey which shows that the use of pesticides is the number one concern of european consumers. in europe, over 220 000 tonnes of pesticides are used every year, which is 25% of the world's total, on only 4% of the agricultural area! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the pesticides are not used in the same way as other pesticides. these are pesticides that are carcinogenic, herbicide-modifying and reproductive-damaging, but also pesticides that are neurotoxic and immunotoxic and hormonally active. that would have made a huge contribution to making pesticides safer. but even for pesticides that are less dangerous, we need to have regulations. the active substances most frequently found above the eu maximum residue levels are not to be placed on the market, as they have unfortunately proved to be unmanageable. we are also pleased that the substitution principle, which was already a crucial step towards improved health protection in the eu chemicals regulation, is to be anchored here, because it is precisely substitution that strengthens competition in the pesticide industry. it is both shameless and frightening to warn that up to half of all pesticides could be taken off the market. i thank the commission for setting such strict criteria for substitution, because pesticides have to be ten times better. they should be authorised for no more than five years, as proposed by the eu environment committee. the commission proposal also regulates how we deal with resistance. another key element of the regulation is to improve the protection of sensitive groups. we know that fetuses, babies and children are particularly exposed to the threatening effects of hazardous chemicals. i am therefore pleased that the committee on the environment and health has proposed that the authorisation of active substances and their risk assessment should be targeted at sensitive groups in society. i am particularly pleased to be able to tell you today that we have also introduced labelling, because foodstuffs that do not comply with directive 2006/215 must be labelled. this is a very important step towards greater transparency, because a study carried out by environmental ngos in the parliament's supermarket has shown how risky everyday products can be. the levels were up to 200 times higher than what is normally prescribed for infant and toddler foods. more transparency for these sensitive groups, but also more transparency for consumers and local residents, which means more support for europe as a whole because we have to stop the 'in-the-mist-sniffing' on the issue of traceability. reporting, lists of authorised pesticides, residue findings and, above all, toxic and ecotoxic data should be made available to all on the internet in a timely manner, and residents should be informed through a central information system before spraying. the pesticide passport is the only way for wholesalers and retailers to trace which pesticide has been used and when. this creates competition and of course the consumers benefit first and foremost from this competition for safe products. but we also want to ensure a high environmental standard with the regulation. the committee on the environment has therefore spoken out against the division of europe into three zones which do not meet any ecological, climatic or spatial criteria but are arbitrary. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are in the same position as the council for better voluntary cooperation in europe on the authorization of products. i would also like to point out once again that there are major legal concerns because we do not have any state treaties within the zones that require these pesticides to be mutually recognised. these exist only at eu level with the corresponding contracts, but not at zonal level. the people of europe do not want poison on their plates! i hope that this regulation will also make a decisive improvement in the european economic area, because it will then be a consumer area from which everyone will benefit - not just the environment, consumers, animal welfare, but above all industry and farmers, because they will have more incentives for innovation and for more competition. i would like to end by thanking my shadow rapporteurs, who have been really very cooperative in this report. i hope that with this new regulation on pesticides we will be setting new standards for health and environmental protection in europe.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. the commission is not as the author of the opinion on the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market, the breyer report, i would like to comment on this. it is important that we strike a balance between the following interests in the proposal for a regulation: the first is the consumer's interest in healthy food without residues, that is to say, in safe plant protection products which do not pose a danger to health and the environment, and also the consumer's interest in clean drinking water. on the other hand, consumers also have an interest in a secure supply of fresh and affordable products, and they want local fruit and vegetables and not those from third countries, where there is little control over the use of plant protection products. our farmers need certain plant protection products to be prepared for resistance. but this cannot be achieved without a certain number of plant protection products. but they also want safe pesticides that are not harmful. we therefore believe that substances which have been shown to cause cancer should be banned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is a balanced middle position that protects our consumers while ensuring that indigenous fruit and vegetables are affordable and are also sufficiently tested. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of pesticides is not restricted to the areas where they are used, and that the use of pesticides is not restricted to the areas where they are used. what should the consumer do with this information? how should the farmer inform all neighbours and residents before applying the pesticide? i therefore strongly oppose the proposal from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety which would lead to this. i would also ask that the commission's information proposal be rejected at this stage. because if we have safe pesticides, we don't need these bureaucratic procedures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is the most important point, including for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. the breyer report has led to the creation of 27 national authorization zones. we want to see harmonization in the final analysis, taking account of the views of the member states, who can then adapt this authorization to their conditions of use. i therefore support this harmonization and the commission's proposal on this point.
i have to say, madam president, many colleagues think that we need strict regulations on the use of pesticides. they're right. but we cannot ignore the full impact of the laws we pass. because pesticides are an important part of agriculture as it exists today. let us take an example from the regulation on authorization: we are in the process of banning substances in batches on the basis of exclusion criteria, on the basis of abstract dangers alone. this approach ignores the actual risk of using the product in the field. in the end, substances are banned which are not a problem when used in real life. the result is that in the future there will not be enough active substances for sensible pest control. using fewer active substances will accelerate the development of resistance. for some pest problems, there will be no reliable help at all. and these are probably the hours of the stars that mrs breyer was just talking about. if that happens, we shall have dawn hours for europe's security of supply. we should not be looking for blanket bans, but for a reliable authorization procedure which examines the actual risk of using a substance. the next example comes from the thematic strategy. we are therefore calling for a europe-wide target for reducing the use of pesticides. but that has nothing to do with the risks involved in using them. the commission had set targets for reducing the actual risk. we should keep this good idea! and we should finally focus on what is feasible: effective pest control with sensible risk management, and finally, how to meet the growing demand for plant-based raw materials in the future. in the past, innovative crop protection products have helped to increase production much more than the demand for agricultural land. it should not be our aim to reverse this relationship in the future.
member of the commission. madam president, i thank the speakers for their positive contributions to the proceedings this evening, and allow me to summarize the commission's views on some of the important issues raised. i shall start with the thematic strategy and in particular with the points not covered by the directive. first of all, i welcome the support of the report for the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides and in particular the proposal for new legislation to address the risks of the use stage of pesticides. i agree with the emphasis on the need for more research on the health effects of combined and cumulative use of pesticides. i also agree with the importance attached to the principle of substitution, which means that the most dangerous substances are removed from the market and replaced by safer alternatives, including non-chemical ones. finally, the belohorská report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety proposes some additional measures which are particularly positive. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. other amendments, however, may produce undesirable effects. i would like to comment first on the main amendments which the commission can accept in principle in full or in part. the commission partially accepts the proposal that member states should set targets for reducing the use of the most dangerous pesticides in national action programmes. the setting of such targets is indeed compatible with the general objective of the directive, namely to limit the risk from the use of pesticides. however, the setting of a general and vague target for the reduction of pesticide use at european union level, in addition to national targets, is not necessary and is therefore not supported by the commission. the general reduction in the quantity of pesticides does not necessarily imply a corresponding reduction in the risk, since the level of risk varies from one substance to another. action to reduce the risk must therefore be targeted and focused primarily on the most harmful substances. the commission can accept in principle the introduction of a minimum width for the buffer zones to be established in fields adjacent to watercourses, as this would bring additional environmental benefits. however, the imposition of 10 measures indiscriminately in all cases does not seem to be appropriate. the commission would prefer that member states should have some flexibility and determine the appropriate width of buffer zones, taking into account their geographical particularities. the commission may also accept some useful clarifications on other issues such as technical training and certification. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. firstly, the commission is convinced that the mandatory observance of common general principles of integrated pest control by professional users of pesticides is a key measure to reduce dependence on pesticides. it will bring significant environmental benefits throughout the european union and contribute to the development of a sustainable and competitive agricultural sector. i cannot therefore accept the deletion, by amendment no 86, of this extremely important measure contained in the european commission's proposal. secondly, the european commission agrees with the adoption of measures to protect the populations living near fields where aerial spraying is carried out. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of the self-employed. we must leave some room for manoeuvre for member states and local authorities to deal, if ever necessary and in exceptional and rare cases, with risks to public health or biodiversity which can only be addressed by the use of pesticides. thirdly, although the commission has committed itself to considering extending the scope of the directive to biocides, such a decision requires careful consideration, as well as the adaptation of certain aspects of the pesticide directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of pesticides is not restricted to the use of certain products, such as certain medicines, and that the use of certain products is not restricted to the use of certain products. fourthly, the commission cannot support the addition of a reference to article 152 (4) of the treaty, since the proposed directive clearly focuses on environmental protection, which already includes public health issues. fifthly, although the levying of taxes and fees is in line with the 'polluter pays' principle, there is currently no effective system for differentiating the tax rates according to the hazard of each pesticide. the commission therefore prefers not to impose taxes and levies at community level at this stage and until the relevant study on the matter is completed. madam president, the commission can accept 121 of the 166 amendments tabled, of which 25 are in full and 96 in principle or in part. i shall be putting to the secretariat of parliament a full list of the commission's positions on the amendments. i would like to thank again all those who have contributed to the debate this evening and especially the rapporteurs for their work. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. and of course a very important part of a healthy diet is eating fruits and vegetables. it's a very basic factor. so what we are asking for today is, on the one hand, to ensure the production of fruit and vegetables, and this is precisely the production capacity and support of agriculture, and, of course, on the other hand, to ensure that fruit and vegetables are safe for consumption. we believe that the commission's proposal succeeds in meeting this dual challenge in a balanced way. i have followed the debate with great interest from all the honourable members, the arguments that have been made are serious and we take them very seriously. i would not like to go into all the issues because of the time constraints, but i would like to focus briefly on two or three which i consider very important and which have been raised today. as a matter of principle, on the subject of the protection of vulnerable groups, i agree with the need to protect them, it has been taken into account in the proposal for a regulation and we are ready to accept the amendment to include the definition of vulnerable groups, precisely to ensure even more protection for them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to stress that these are also controlled for pesticide residues by another regulation on maximum residue levels for pesticides. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in general, approval criteria are a very important part of legislation. the main objective of the proposal is precisely the protection of public health and the environment, which is fundamental and must not be forgotten. the proposed approval criteria are necessary to achieve this objective and the commission will therefore not be able to accept any relaxation of these criteria. it is clear from the debate and from some of the amendments that these objectives are shared by the european parliament. some amendments have even strengthened these criteria. the commission considers that the proposed criteria must ensure a high level of protection without rendering plant protection ineffective and dysfunctional. the commission will therefore not be able to accept amendments which would weaken these criteria. finally, as regards the controversial issue of mutual recognition, recognition through harmonisation zones in this field. i think our proposal has been misunderstood to some extent. first of all, let me remind you that the new proposal will introduce stricter criteria, which will apply within the zones - let us not forget this - and therefore higher levels of protection of health and the environment. on the other hand, we must also take a step towards the single market, towards the completion of the internal market, and we must avoid the paradox of having a single market for agricultural products, but a single market which is divided for plant protection products. we also take account of the specificities of the climate and the terrain, and that is why we have set up zones. but the issue is not that simple and absolute, which is why i said it could be based on a misunderstanding. on the one hand, it is possible for member states to take protective measures and, on the other hand, in the decision-making process for approval by the first member state of the zone, experts from the other member states will be able to take an active part in the authorization process and thus be able to assess the conditions -through this - for the whole zone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to mention in particular the question of water protection, because this is also a sensitive point, and it has been raised by a number of honourable members, and i would like to say that the proposal takes account of the need to protect water resources and in particular the water framework directive. if it is clear from the risk assessment that, under the proposed conditions of use, the acceptable limits will be exceeded in the vulnerable areas, then the member state concerned must and may refuse the use of the pesticides for that particular area. furthermore, if a member state can demonstrate that its entire territory is a vulnerable area, it has the option of not approving the product in question at all. the specificities and the need to protect water resources are therefore clearly taken into account in the procedure proposed by the new regulation. therefore, the commission, in view of the above, could not accept the amendments related to the zone approval system. as i said, there are over 250 amendments, there is no time to analyse them in detail, i see that we still have a difference of opinion, but i hope that through the process and the debate we will be able to find common ground. annex position of the commission the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept amendments nos 2, 3, 6, 17, 26, 49, 52, 53, 60, 61, 66, 68, 76, 94, 95, 97, 103, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 111, 115 and 117. the commission is also prepared to accept amendments nos 2, 3, 6, 17, 26, 49, 52, 53, 60, 61, 66, 68, 76, 94, 95, 97, 103, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 111, 115 and 117. the commission can accept in principle or in part amendments 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 38, 39, 42, 43, 44, 45, 47, 48, 50, 51, 54, 56, 59, 62, 63, 64, 65, 67, 70, 71, 74, 75, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 85, 67, 90, 92, 93, 100, 101, 110, 112, 113, 114, 116, 118, 119, 122, 126, 128, 129, 130, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 148, 159, 150, 151, 152, 153, 154, 155, 156, 160, 163, 164 and 165. the commission is not in a position to accept amendments 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 10, 11, 11, 12, 12, 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 21, 27, 27, 31, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 38, 39, 42, 43, 45, 47, 48, 50, 51, 54, 54, 56, 59, 62, 63, 64, 65, 67, 67, 71, 71, 71, 72, 72, 73, 160, 163, 164, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, 165, and 168, and 165, which are not in the same position as the commission is in. the commission cannot accept amendments 1, 5, 16, 22, 23, 28, 29, 30, 32, 37, 40, 41, 46, 55, 57, 58, 59, 72, 73, 77, 84, 86, 88, 89, 91, 96, 98, 99, 102, 104, 120, 121, 123, 124, 125, 127, 132, 138, 139, 157, 158, 159, 161 and 162. the commission is not in a position to accept amendments nos 1, 5, 16, 22, 23, 28, 29, 30, 32, 37, 40, 41, 46, 55, 57, 58, 59, 69, 72, 73, 77, 84, 86, 88, 89, 91, 96, 98, 99, 102, 104, 120, 121, 123, 124, 125, 127, 132, 138, 158, 159, 161 and 162, which are not in the same position as the commission. the commission reserves its position on amendment 166. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept, or accept subject to rewording, amendments 9, 11, 20, 22, 26, 29, 31, 32, 33, 36, 41, 43, 45, 49, 51, 56, 57, 64, 67, 75, 78, 79, 82, 84, 92, 93, 96, 102, 107, 112, 114, 119, 124, 130, 131, 140, 145, 153, 155, 156, 157, 159, 160, 167, 170, 181, 184, 190, 195, 196, 197, 201, 203, 206, 212, 213, 215, 217, 220, 254, 258, 274, 282, 283, 286 and 301. the commission can accept, or accept subject to rewording, amendments 9, 11, 20, 22, 26, 29, 31, 32, 36, 36, 41, 43, 45, 49, 51, 56, 57, 64, 67, 75, 78, 78, 79, 82, 84, 92, 93, 93, 96, 102, 107, 112, 114, 119, 129, 130, 131, 140, 140, 153, 155, 156, 157, 157, 159, 160, 160, 170, 181, 184, 190, 195, 196, 197, 201, 203, 206, 212, 213, 215, 217, 220, 254, 258, 274, 283, 283, 286 and 301, which are not included in the list of amendments. the commission can accept amendments 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 14, 18, 19, 21, 24, 25, 27, 34, 39, 46, 50, 53, 54, 59, 61, 62, 63, 66, 77, 80, 87, 89, 94, 95, 98, 99, 100, 108, 109, 115, 116, 121, 122, 123, 133, 134, 136, 149, 163, 169, 175, 176, 177, 180, 183, 188, 189, 193, 199, 209, 218, 225, 233, 243, 244, 248, 251, 252, 268, 279, 284, 290, 296, 297, 300, 302 and 305, in principle or in part. the commission is also prepared to accept amendments 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 14, 18, 19, 24, 25, 27, 34, 39, 46, 53, 54, 59, 61, 62, 63, 66, 77, 80, 87, 89, 94, 95, 98, 99, 100, 108, 109, 115, 116, 121, 122, 123, 133, 134, 136, 149, 169, 175, 176, 180, 183, 189, 193, 188, 193, 199, 209, 218, 225, 233, 243, 244, 248, 251, 252, 268, 279, 284, 290, 296, 297, 300, 302 and 305, which are proposed by the committee on the rules of procedure, which is hereby authorized to amend the text of the proposed amendments. the commission cannot accept amendments 1, 2, 3, 8, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 23, 28, 30, 35, 37, 38, 40, 42, 44, 47, 48, 52, 58, 59, 60, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 81, 83, 85, 86, 88, 90, 91, 97, 101, 103, 104, 105, 106, 110, 113, 117, 118, 120, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 132, 135, 138, 139, 141, 142, 143, 144, 146, 147, 158, 151, 152, 158, 161, 162, 165, 166, 168, 171, 172, 173, 174, 179, 182, 185, 186, 187, 191, 192, 194, 200, 202, 204, 205, 208, 207, 211, 214, 216, 219, 211, 222, 223, 224, 226, 227, 228, 231, 232, 238, 237, 238, 237, 283, 283, 294, 295, 295, 295, 296, 297, 297, 298, 295, 295, 295, 296, 297, 298, 298, 293, 294, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 296, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 296, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, 295, and other than the amendments proposed by the commission, which were not accepted by the council on a proposal from the commission, which was adopted by the council on 20 december 1999.
the next item is the report by mr corbett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of rule 173 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament - report (a6-0354/2007) by mr richard corbett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of rule 173 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament - report (a6-0354/2007) by mr richard corbett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of rule 173 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament - report (a6-0354/2007) by mr richard corbett, on the amendment of rule 173 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament - report (a6-02137) by mr richard corbett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of rule 173 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament - report (a6-0354/2007).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have free choice in our group. i am not entitled to speak for all my colleagues. the basic question is again whether parliament's services are worth the money or whether we have to limit ourselves here because of the need to save. i also think that the new idea of video production is a good idea that should not be shaken. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i think that is not enough, because the written archiving service is an indispensable service. i'll give you four reasons: firstly, all the parliaments in the world make their plenary debates available in written form and archive them so that what was discussed in parliament can be read. secondly, the video recording gives an immediate, very interesting impression, but we also know that because of the rush, the oral translation is often not of the quality we need. we know this internally from our work with the tabling office. we have set up a tabling office ourselves to ensure that the applications and the written form are absolutely correct. because we are so multilingual, we must be especially careful. we want to maintain this care in the archiving process. thirdly, the scientists who have spoken on this subject may not have really known what they were getting into. because they make an immediate impression, but they lack credibility. in addition, it is much easier to evaluate a plenary debate if you can enter a term, be it 'pesticides' or 'co2', and then it is immediately directed to a debate on that subject. i don't think that's possible with the video. so, yes, the written archiving is worth the money, i'm for the written form in addition to the video recording.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 24 october. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr chris davies, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (a6-0343/2007).
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr davies, i think we need to remember once again very clearly why we need to discuss strict binding limits in the first place. it is because a voluntary agreement which was concluded between the commission and the automotive industry over ten years ago has been knowingly and willfully missed by the automotive industry. this was not an accident, this was not done to one's self, but it was brought about by decisions at the top of the group! i am therefore somewhat surprised, mr davies, that you have made it clear today, with your amendments - which i have only known about today, perhaps they have been around for a long time - that you are no longer interested in putting any real pressure on the innovative capacity and the innovative power of the automobile industry in europe, contrary to what has been decided in the committee on the environment. in my view, the only way to achieve europe's climate goals is to have the strict limit values - as originally proposed by the commission. i also think it is true - and you are right, mr dimas - that we can only guarantee the security of supply for transport in the long term if we immediately make cars more efficient, because we cannot stand by and watch valuable and hard-to-reach oil continue to be celebrated on our roads. the third point - and this is so important to the committee on industry for which i wrote the opinion - is that we must finally ensure that the knowledge and skills of engineers and designers in the automotive industry are put to use and that these good engineers are not further held back by bad management. i am firmly convinced that in the very near future only efficient, climate-friendly, affordable cars will be on sale, cars which are still classy, and those who today, by setting really harmless time limits for the limit values, mr davies, take the pressure off innovation, will be responsible for this if the european car industry is not competitive in the long term and if the car industry in europe loses jobs. it is quite clear that the world car market - at least if we believe our climate policy and our un climate policy - will change completely, and those who are on the brakes today on the limits are responsible for the fact that the automotive industry in europe is going down the drain and we are not taking our climate policy seriously at all.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. when it comes to co2 emissions, we like to talk very quickly about cars, because the way to our people's bad environmental conscience is through the car. that is why mrs harms, the greens and many environmental organizations in particular are very happy to talk about this subject. we have failed to commit ourselves, there is no question about it, and that is why we need regulation, there is no way around that. how you can come here and say, mrs harms, that the auto industry has deliberately and strategically torpedoed the commitment is a bit far-fetched. i would like to remind you that in a market there are not only suppliers of products, but also demanders. we are also demanding, for example, and if we go home with the service right now, we will also drive the cars that do not meet this very commitment. i would like to see an initiative from the greens: if you are honest, please order the small cars that will meet this self-commitment target next year, also for this parliament. we must make sure that the reductions required in future legislation are consistent with a cost-benefit analysis. the stern report, which you and the greens have also quoted, estimates that of 13 possible measures to reduce co2, the reductions in cars, which are by far the most expensive, are actually the most inefficient. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the car industry, including the introduction of a new car tax. the people who are not doing this are putting jobs at risk, mrs harms, not the people who are acknowledging it. so i am glad that our rapporteur has taken the very step of saying that anything before 2015 is not realistic at this point. parliament will vote tomorrow on something that is on the table, and you have to say: whatever it is, whatever year it is called, whatever average it is, it will always be the most rigorous and ambitious in comparison with the rest of the world. we should keep that in mind. the degree of incentive and punishment for our industry is very, very small, and we have to be very careful in the end to make sure that we are really exporting the best products, not our industry.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this own-initiative report should send a signal to the commission that the european parliament is serious about reducing co2 emissions from cars. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. three points should be borne in mind. firstly, from 1 january 2012, new cars in europe must achieve an average co2 emission of 120 grams per kilometre. we should not shake the date and the limit. the car industry committed itself in 1998 to reducing the co2 emissions of its new cars. i see no reason why we should shake the timing and the threshold, given the news about the progress of climate change. secondly, future legislation must make it clear that co2 emissions must be reduced in all vehicle categories. large cars have to make a bigger contribution, but smaller cars have to make a bigger contribution too if we are to reach 120 grams in 2012. thirdly, the car must remain affordable for the people who buy it. i agree with some of my predecessors. i come from a rural area where people rely on cars to get to work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. what good is a strict limit if people can no longer afford new cars and continue to drive the old ones? it takes over eight and a half years for the car fleet on europe's roads to be renewed, and we should bear this in mind in future legislation. the guideline for future legislation on co2 emissions from passenger cars should be to ensure greater climate protection and affordability of car driving.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the commission, the committee secretariat and the rapporteurs, because i have a few more minutes of my time. it was not so easy, and i am grateful that we were able to work together in a practical way and to try to achieve as much common ground as possible on a not so simple subject. the commission has been the subject of three different communications and we have tried to provide answers in this report in these three areas, which we have achieved in the committee responsible by a large majority. the starting point - and this is undeniable and is brought up in every debate on energy policy - was that both the commission and parliament believe that energy policy has something to do with three major objectives, namely competitiveness, i.e. good prices, environmental compatibility and security of supply. the part that the solution in the energy sector therefore lies in a continuous development of technology, in new technologies, was certainly the easiest. technology is the key to answering these three questions. so in a world where the demand for energy is growing, but the supply of fossil fuels is shrinking, it's important that we invest in research and innovation and try to move forward in these places. if you look at what could be achieved by more efficient coal plants alone - today's average: 34%, state-of-the-art: 55% - if you replace one third of the old plants with new state-of-the-art plants, you could reduce fuel consumption by 30%. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. it is undeniable that the share of fossil fuels in the gross domestic consumption of the european union, which was 79% in 2004, will continue to be there for the foreseeable future. we will have to work with fossil fuels for a while, however long that may be. coal is a major factor, and it plays an important role in this, because it is, of course, one of the few sources of energy, or the only source of energy, that we have in europe, although the availability of such sources varies from one member state to another. this is a major advantage, especially in the field of energy security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a critical issue is co2 emissions. one of the two possible ways is to have greater efficiency and better technology, and the second is to make sure that we can use new technologies to capture co2 and store it in the earth -- the famous ccs technology. of course, this is easier said than done, but there's evidence that it works. we have also made our views known in this report and said: yes, we want to develop this technology because it is the opportunity to have coal - a very reliable energy source for us - in europe in the future. we have therefore also pointed out that it is of course necessary to recognize that there may be a loss of efficiency, that it is therefore difficult to estimate when the use is possible, and above all that we must do our homework and also draw up legislation accordingly. the third and most controversial part is the question of nuclear energy: over 30% share in europe, with advantages that cannot be denied, no matter what political position one holds. it is there, it is cheap, it has a high level of security of supply, it is highly exciting, highly interesting in terms of co2 emissions, and i think it would be reckless if we simply pushed this type of energy aside and did not take it into account at all. we have succeeded - and it has not been easy - in finding a formulation which has been adopted by a large majority, which says: 'this is part of a full debate, but the decision whether to use this or not is a matter for the member states'. this is a relatively important point, but we want to make a contribution to the part where europe has a responsibility, namely the area of security. it is therefore a wise move to set up the high level group and the nuclear energy forum, and it is certainly right, as the pinc paper has suggested, to take this debate forward and not to let ourselves be cut off from something that is a potential opportunity when it comes to investing in new technologies. the 'mix' is not about excluding one type of energy, but about taking all of them into account. i hope we can pass this tomorrow, as we did in committee by a large majority.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. since it has almost been announced that the greens do not agree with the report, i want to concentrate on the points which have disturbed me the most. it is also reflected in our amendments. the report did not allow for any critical reflection on nuclear energy. all the problems that exist in europe with the decline of safety culture in nuclear power plants were not discussed, although vattenfall has just delivered a great negative example in germany. the difficulties in financing the disposal of waste are not an issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but one thing, mr reul, which i should like to say to you now, has really thrown me off balance, and i will say this before we meet in bratislava: that the italian company enel in slovakia is today - in 2007 - pursuing the plan to complete a nuclear power plant which was designed before chernobyl in the soviet union, which was built in czechoslovakia in the early 1980s, which is now two-thirds complete, that enel wants to complete it without a new approval procedure, without being tested against european standards - that is a scandal! the people who sing the praises of nuclear energy must not let this scandal go unnoticed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in all the necessary measures for climate protection and renewable energy, it is of the utmost importance that parliament should deal with the future of conventional energy sources. the reul report stresses the enormous regional economic importance of coal and nuclear power. we have 300 000 european jobs in coal mining alone. additional economic power is generated by the power plants and the tax revenue. we owe about 60% of our electricity to european coal and nuclear power alone. of course, we need to be more efficient and safer here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the environment. but we must not go beyond the legal framework in such a way that coal loses its international competitiveness. because renewable energy sources will not be able to grow as fast as we all want. we are threatened by foreign dependence and the arbitrariness of our energy suppliers. the only way to avoid this in the future is to have a strategic energy mix, including coal and nuclear power.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you have already pointed out, commissioner, that statistics of both the european union and the member states are of crucial importance for many policy areas. to avoid wrong decisions and mismatches, statistics must be meaningful, reliable, clearly interpretable and thus comparable. unfortunately, this has not always been the case. i therefore welcome the establishment of the statistical advisory committee and the advisory group on statistical governance. the amendments tabled by the european parliament will, i hope, give both bodies the necessary weight. i would like to emphasize that, firstly, the statistical advisory committee will be independent and will include all the groups concerned. the committee will have significantly fewer members than its predecessor the european consultative committee on statistical information (ceies) and will benefit significantly from the reduction in its membership from 79 to 24. i welcome the fact that the european data protection supervisor is to be a voting member of the advisory committee, but the director of eurostat is to be granted only a non-voting membership. this underlines the independence of the panel. a useful complement to the advisory committee is the advisory group on statistical governance. it will monitor the implementation of the code of conduct in all matters of european statistics and, i hope, actively promote it. it is hoped that these two institutions will help to ensure that user needs are better integrated into the statistical work programme and that the code of conduct is put into practice to the extent that deliberate or accidental misinformation and data will be a thing of the past in the future. in conclusion, let me thank the two rapporteurs warmly for their work and for their willingness to discuss controversial issues openly and constructively.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the question of whether eu tax policies are actually helping to promote growth, employment and innovation is, unfortunately, a very narrow one: she's not doing it! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. growth is not promoted by taxing earned income many times more than income from property ownership, and the gap between the two is even widening. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxation of small businesses is not disproportionately higher than that of speculative investments in stocks, bonds and financial derivatives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in short, a socially balanced outlook and development of the eu is certainly not being promoted, but rather strangled, as long as those who are floating in money are being blessed with ever new tax gifts and are being fattened up ever further, while those who already have little are being pocketed ever more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that on paper, of course, the design of national tax systems is still a matter for the member states, but the reality is different. in fact, the lack of eu-wide coordination - especially in the area of direct taxation - is leading to national tax systems becoming increasingly less politically oriented and more shaped by the icy logic of tax competition. this logic can be summed up in a simple formula: the more mobile a factor is, the greater its potential for extortion vis-à-vis the national tax authorities and, of course, the more extensive the tax relief it can enforce for itself. in order to avoid the total drain on government revenue, the sectors which are difficult or impossible to avoid taxation must be taxed even more heavily to compensate. this is why taxes are shifted from corporate profits to private income, here from capital income to labour income, which is just less mobile, within labour income from high paid work to the less well paid workers, who are just as much less mobile, and in general from income and wealth to consumption. the fact that this process has been going on for years and decades is very clearly demonstrated by the data on tax revenues and rates in the eu. not only the statutory but also the effective corporate tax rates in the eu have fallen by over 10 percentage points in the last decade. this is confirmed by all the studies on the subject that exist. in almost all eu countries, top tax rates have been reduced. in an increasing number of eu countries, the transition to dual taxation systems has led to a massive privileging of private capital income over labour income. and consumption taxes are rising more and more - on the one hand, because of so-called eco-taxes, which often, for lack of choice, have no environmental incentive at all, but simply drain households to the bone, and on the other hand, because vat rates are rising more and more and are approaching each other in more and more countries at the upper end of the agreed corridor. such a development is no coincidence. it is the direct consequence of unhindered tax competition in a single internal market. it should be noted that the downward trend in corporate taxation within the eu far outweighs that in the oecd as a whole. this means that tax rates have fallen significantly more than in the oecd as a whole. this too shows very clearly that the forces of globalisation, which are often and often invoked, are not at work here, but that these are home-made forces, made within the eu, and thus also forces which could very well be overcome on their own, if one wanted to. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. only such minimum rates actually offer the chance of stopping the race to the bottom in corporate taxes at some point. my report included the call for a stronger taxation of wealth and financial transactions throughout the eu, the call for a significant reduction in working income in the lower and middle classes, and finally the call to reverse the fatal trend of increasingly shifting direct taxes to indirect taxes and to re-establish the opposite trend. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, the changes made in the report show very clearly the interests of the majority of the members of the economic committee, and particularly the liberal and conservative groups, because it is quite obvious who are the beneficiaries of the current tax regime in the eu. we have now tabled our main demands once again in the form of amendments. if they do not get a majority here, my group will vote against the report. a different tax policy in the eu, which reduces social contrasts rather than increasing them further and further - as the current tax policy does - would be very possible and urgently needed. but this would require that the mainstream politics in the european commission and indeed in the individual eu member states actually take the interests of the majority of europeans as their guiding principle, rather than acting as the enforcer of the interests of the top ten thousand, as has been the case so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall continue to exert pressure on this very point so that at some point the unspeakable euphemism of socially intolerable conditions - which is characteristic of most reports and which is also characteristic of this tax report - will no longer be able to command a majority in this house.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i agree with mrs kauppi. the contradictions between the political groups in this parliament are becoming increasingly apparent on the taxation policy. we must take this debate much more seriously in the coming months. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the great effort they have put into bringing this report to a successful conclusion. not a happy ending for us. we as a group will not be able to endorse this report. there are pleasant aspects to it. it is a welcome step in describing and calling for the important step towards a consolidated tax base for corporate taxation. this is an important first step. but this important first step must be accompanied by equally clear statements towards the harmonization of minimum tax rates, because otherwise we will have uncontrollable tax competition in this area. we also see problems in paragraph 17, where the committee unfortunately has clearly spoken out against minimum rates of excise duty. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. we are supporting the group here. we believe that we must achieve harmonization in europe in the field of excise duties, that this harmonization must rather be strengthened, otherwise we will end up with uncontrolled tax competition in the field of excise duties. we also find it problematic that far too little is said on the topics of climate change and green taxes. i would also like to disagree with the rapporteur on this point. i believe that green taxes are an important tool to address precisely these climate change challenges. we need to do a lot more in this area. i think it is a mistake to rely on nuclear energy or so-called clean energy. it is important that we clearly set our focus on energy saving and energy efficiency. those are the important answers. and if you look at the challenges we face in the areas of building renovation and transportation, it turns out that we can actually meet the kyoto approach of saving energy if we do a lot more here. tax policy can play a major role in helping us to achieve greater energy savings, greater energy efficiency, and truly meet the challenges of climate change. unfortunately, this report does not reflect that position. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the informal summit of heads of state or government in lisbon. i should like to extend a warm welcome to the president of the european council, mr josé sócrates, prime minister of portugal. i would like to welcome you to the european parliament this morning. the president of the european commission, josé manuel durão barroso, is of course also warmly greeted for his work at the european summit. ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate - and i do not want to prejudge it in any way - i would like to thank the portuguese presidency for its great efforts and for the success of the vote on the treaty on european union and the functioning of the european union at around 1 a.m. on the night of thursday to friday. this is a great success for the european union, it is a great success for all of us. i would add, on behalf of the european parliament, that without the european parliament we would not be where we are today. this is also a great success for all of us, because the treaty was and is the top priority of the priorities for the european parliament, so that we are also a big winner and victor of this treaty. with these congratulations to the portuguese presidency, but also to the commission - and i see here also vice-president wallström, who also has a large share, alongside commission president josé manuel durão barroso - i am now pleased to give the floor to the president of the european council, josé sócrates. welcome to the european parliament.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my remarks today by recalling the memory of a friend of mine. the memory of mep fausto correia, who died a few days ago. he died young. his death was of course a great loss for the european parliament, but it was also a great loss for the portuguese socialist party. fausto correia was a man of great political and human qualities. all of you had the opportunity to live with him. he was an intelligent, prepared politician, and always devoted to the noble ideals of europe. but what i want to evoke at this particular moment are your human qualities of generosity, of fellowship and of tolerance. after all, it is human qualities that give political life meaning. his disappearance was a personal loss for me, the loss of a longtime friend with whom i shared many moments of my life and who leaves me with great sorrow. ladies and gentlemen, when i presented the programme of the portuguese presidency to this house three months ago, i made it clear that the main challenge - the main priority - of the portuguese presidency would be to draw up and reach agreement on the new treaty, ending the six years of deadlock in the institutional debate in which the european union was immersed. it is therefore with great pleasure that i stand before the european parliament today to present to you the agreement reached by the intergovernmental conference on 18 october. the new treaty of lisbon was born of this agreement. the treaty will be signed on 13 december in the city which will henceforth give it the name by which it will be known. the portuguese presidency has begun the task of transforming the mandate given to us by the german presidency, the clarity and precision of which i wish to stress here as i have always done, but transforming this mandate into a new treaty. that was our mission. the agreement we have reached confirms the correctness of the method and timetable we defined at the beginning of our presidency. it was necessary - as i said to you here at the beginning of the presidency - to take advantage of the june council to try to conclude the treaty not in december, as some advocated, but in october, in the informal council. and we were right. the fact is that we have held the fastest intergovernmental conference in the history of the european union on the revision of the treaties. we started on july 23 and finished on october 18. when we make the history of this treaty, we will understand better the importance of this political decision not to leave for the end of the year the task that was within our power to finish earlier. europe needed a quick deal and got it. europe needed a sign of confidence and it got it. europe needed to look to the future and it did. we worked quickly with all the member states, which without exception showed a constructive spirit and a willingness to overcome the remaining difficulties. this has enabled us to present a full text of the treaty on 3 october, bringing us much closer to our objective. the questions that remained for the lisbon summit were limited, but politically difficult, to be sure. in this context, our strategy was to try to reach an agreement on the first day of the summit. we felt that this was not only possible but also very desirable, because we were sending an important signal to europe. the sign that the european union is able to decide quickly, even when decisions are involved which everyone recognizes as difficult. it was very important that we could, on the first day of the informal council, deal with institutional questions and, on the second day, immediately after that resolution, discuss globalisation and how europe should deal with global issues. the following issues were therefore agreed at lisbon, which allowed agreement on the treaty to be finalised: firstly, the ioannina clause, and in the agreement a two-tier solution was reached: a declaration, a declaration which is about the system of decision-making in the council by qualified majority and which makes explicit the ioannina safeguard mechanism itself; but another, a protocol which makes the modification or repeal of this mechanism conditional on consensus in the european council. as i have always said, the ioannina question, as i saw it in the last council agreement, required that this clause be legally binding but not in the treaty. this solution we have adopted, a declaration plus a protocol which ensures that this decision on ioannina is only changed by consensus, seems to us to be the solution which is most faithful to the spirit of the last agreement. in this way we have given guarantees as to ioannina's commitment without affecting the integrity of the qualified majority decisionmaking process. a political question concerning the number of advocates-general of the court of justice also had to be resolved. a statement was agreed that the council would give its approval to a possible request by the court of justice to increase the number of advocates-general from eight to eleven (therefore three more). in this case, poland will have a permanent advocate-general and will no longer participate in the rotation system, while the current rotation system will cover five advocates-general instead of the three it currently has. as regards the appointment of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, we agreed on a declaration that the european parliament will be involved in the process of his appointment at the very beginning, in january 2009, through appropriate contacts. the conference also adopted a declaration clarifying the delimitation of competences between the union and the member states, as provided for in the treaties. and finally, the question of the composition of the european parliament. as you know, there has been an amendment to article 90a of the treaty on european union, which defines that the number of members of the european parliament cannot exceed 750 plus the president, that is to say 751, while maintaining the proportional degressivity of their representation. this amendment was accompanied by two declarations: one defining that the additional seat in the european parliament will be allocated to italy; the other ensuring that the european council will give its political agreement on the composition of the european parliament, on the basis of the parliament's own proposal. the council therefore accepted the criteria proposed by parliament and made an adjustment which it considered acceptable, with a view to adapting the current framework during the period 2009-2014. in addition to the issues i have mentioned, the portuguese presidency was also concerned to incorporate into the treaty those rules and exceptions which were part of the mandate, naturally respecting the positions of the member states which wished to obtain them, but always with the concern not to distort the essence of the community decisionmaking process and the overall coherence of the treaty. we have a new treaty. a new and a good treaty. a treaty that resolves the crisis of the past and puts europe on the road to the future. it is a treaty which has made significant progress, and i should like to highlight some of them. this treaty incorporates, without amendment, the extension of the european parliament's participation in the legislative process and also incorporates innovations in the budgetary procedure, thus reinforcing the democratic legitimacy of the union; other whereas this treaty improves the decision-making process, in particular by extending qualified majority voting to the area of freedom, security and justice; as regards the area of freedom, security and justice, this treaty lays down the legal basis for the development of more effective immigration and asylum policies, as well as for police and judicial coordination against terrorism and organised crime, which enhances the security of our citizens; this treaty clearly lists the areas in which member states have transferred powers to the union; this treaty strengthens the supervisory role of national parliaments. but among all the advances made by this treaty, there is one i would particularly like to emphasize: the treaty explicitly confers binding legal force on the charter of fundamental rights, which is to be proclaimed by the three institutions of the european union as early as 12 december. in addition, the union's accession to the european convention on human rights and the fact that a solution has been found to the question of the legal framework for european citizenship, as was requested by the representatives of this parliament. at the external level, the new institutional framework created by the treaty - in particular the merger of the posts of high representative and vice-president of the european commission for external relations - reflects europe's ambition in foreign policy, an ambition that will give europe a more prominent role on the international stage and the means for effective cooperation with our partners. ladies and gentlemen, it was a difficult and demanding negotiation, but europe has complied. europe has fulfilled and fulfilled the crucial objective, the objective of having a treaty that affirms european values, the objective of having a treaty that strengthens europe as a global economic actor and has fulfilled the crucial objective for europe of having the most effective institutional conditions to play its role. europe therefore emerges stronger from this summit. stronger to deal with global issues. stronger to take your place in the world. but it is stronger because it has given a signal of confidence to our economy and a signal of confidence to the citizens of europe. the treaty of lisbon now shows a europe that is prepared, a europe that is confident, and a europe that is self-assured. what the treaty of lisbon brings us back is a europe fit for the times. and let me thank the european parliament for that. i want to do so in the person of its president, hans-gert pöttering, and his representatives at the intergovernmental conference: elmar brok (epp-ed), enrique barón-crespo (pse) and andrew duff (alde). i would like to thank you on behalf of the portuguese presidency for your excellent cooperation in the work, for the constructive suggestions you have made, but above all for your commitment to ensuring that europe reaches agreement and that it does so quickly. (applause from the left) i would also like to thank the european commission, and i would particularly like to thank the president of the european commission, to whom the presidency owes so much over these months for his help in bringing the negotiations to a successful conclusion. thank you very much, mr president. (applause) but i also have the right to express my deep gratitude to the general secretariat of the council and, in particular, to its legal services and its director, mr jean-claude piris. i want to thank you, on behalf of the presidency, for your work, your competence and your dedication. you did an absolutely magnificent job. i would also like to thank all the representatives of the member states who took part at various levels in the intergovernmental conference. the presidency does not forget the spirit of collaboration, the commitment and the openness that everyone has shown in finding the best solutions. ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to express my very personal thanks. i would like to thank mr luís amado, the foreign minister sitting next to me, mr lobo antunes, the secretary of state, and all the portuguese diplomats who have given their best in this period for what will undoubtedly be one of the great successes of the european presidency. ladies and gentlemen, the aim of concluding the treaty in lisbon having been achieved, the heads of state and government were able to spend the morning of the second day discussing the external dimension of the lisbon agenda and europe's response to the challenges of globalisation. it was an excellent debate, in which we had the participation and valuable contribution of the president of the european parliament. and it was a debate that was forward-looking. the president of the european commission made an important contribution to the discussion, based on the communication on 'the european interest: succeeding in globalisation'. this document was highly praised by the heads of state and government. the debate focused in particular on financial markets in the light of recent turmoil and climate change in the run-up to the bali conference. and of the various conclusions i was able to draw from the debate, i would like to emphasize one: the idea that was present in the debate on friday morning, that europe has all the conditions - and even the duty in various matters - to lead the process of globalisation, whether in the reciprocal opening of markets, or in improving environmental, social, financial and intellectual property standards, as well as in strengthening strategic cooperation with our international partners. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make one final point before i close. it is true that 18 october ended with an agreement on the lisbon treaty, but that same day also began with another important agreement which i would like to mention here: the agreement between the european social partners on the new challenges for the labour market. that was an important deal, too. the social partners have set an example of constructive commitment, responsibility and social dialogue in this agreement. a good example of attention to the need for dialogue, the need for reform in the face of a globalised world and a world in constant change. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to close on a personal note. in political life, there are few moments when we have the opportunity to serve our country and serve europe at a critical moment. i'm honored to have had this opportunity. and i want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the support of all the benches i have ever encountered in this parliament. but the job is not done. we have a long way to go. i, for my part, just want to assure you that the presidency will continue to work with the same commitment, the same energy and the same conviction with which it was here in the first hour and to work for a stronger europe and a better world. (applause from the left)
i would like to thank you very much, mr president of the european council, for your report and for your work. ladies and gentlemen, you have heard about the composition of the european parliament, and the report by the president of the european council did not mention the right to vote of the president of the european parliament. i would therefore like to emphasize once again that this was not an issue at the european council. the president of the european parliament will of course exercise his right to vote, and no one can take that away from him, nor has the european council taken it away from him. i want to make this very official. i would now like to ask the president of the commission, mr josé manuel durão barroso, to speak to us.
president of the commission. mr president of the european parliament, mr president-in-office of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon summit was the summit of a europe united in solidarity. the european union has spent six years discussing institutional issues and also the divisions caused by these debates. we have reached an agreement on the treaty of lisbon. i would first like to pay my sincere tribute to the work of the portuguese presidency and in particular to the determined leadership of prime minister josé sócrates. i would also like to extend my greetings to your entire team, whose competence and dedication i have witnessed almost daily. it is also right to acknowledge the remarkable work done by the german presidency and, in particular, by chancellor angela merkel when she succeeded in defining a mandate, a clear and precise mandate which was the basis of the intergovernmental conference. but it is also true that without the determination and competence of the portuguese presidency we would not be celebrating today the fact that we have turned a mandate into a treaty. let me say that it will be of particular significance that this treaty is signed on 13 december in lisbon, in the jerónimos monastery, precisely where the treaty of accession of portugal to the european community was signed. twenty years after portugal joined the european community, portugal is in some way thanking europe for all that europe has done for portugal in helping europe overcome this impasse. mr prime minister, portugal has every reason to be proud of its work, of the work of the portuguese presidency to conclude the treaty of lisbon. let me also salute the european parliament for its commitment during the igc. throughout this process the european parliament showed a strong political will to resolve the institutional issue, being determined to reinforce european democracy. i would like in particular to pay tribute to the role of president pöttering and the delegation of the european parliament - mr brok, mr barón crespo and mr duff - and to thank them for the constructive relationship they had with the commission. this was indeed exemplary cooperation, and i think we both made a contribution to very important advances in the new treaty, namely the issues of citizenship. the treaty of lisbon is the first treaty of the enlarged union. it is the first time in the history of european integration that states which were once divided by a totalitarian curtain together negotiated and reached agreement on a common european treaty. it is appropriate that we all remember today the importance of the berlin declaration, which celebrated not only the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome but also the emergence of a free and re-united europe. let me recall today some of the predictions we have heard during the last two years. in 2005, after the two negative referendums, we heard some people saying that the european union of 25 or 27 would never agree on a treaty, whatever its content. there were far too many different national interests to allow the union to reach a consensus, some sceptics said. in 2007, critics said that member states would never agree on a mandate. then they said that a mandate from the june european council would never be respected. on my way to lisbon last week i was still hearing some critics saying that it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to reach an agreement and that delegations had even booked hotels until sunday morning maybe expecting to benefit from the very nice weather in lisbon and portugal. the fact is that 27 member states reached a consensus, respected the mandate and agreed on a treaty and all of this on the thursday night, after dinner. the success of lisbon tells us that the european union is, indeed, tougher than it looks, with a strong ability to recover from setbacks. i am proud to say that the european union today is alive and delivering. the commission is happy with the results of the igc. the two non-negotiable conditions set by the commission were fully respected. on the one hand, the lisbon treaty has clearly advanced from the current status quo. i have always said that the commission could not accept a solution less ambitious than the treaty of nice. in fact we wanted as much progress as possible. on the other hand, we fought hard to keep the commission's powers intact and to keep the community method at the centre of the european union. there were, let us be honest, certain attempts to reduce and weaken the competence of the commission. let me be clear, there is no european integration without strong european institutions, and i believe this treaty will reinforce the european institutions, not weaken them, because if you want the european union to have an increased capacity to act, you need strong, effective, democratic and accountable european institutions. the treaty of lisbon will reinforce the democratic nature of the european union. first, thanks to the efforts of the european parliament, there is now a clear definition of what european citizenship means. secondly, the reform treaty also gives legal force to the charter of fundamental rights, which will be a central part of the system of checks and balances in our union of law. together with president pöttering and prime minister socrates, we will proclaim the charter in the european parliament before the signature of the reform treaty. the solemn dignity of the charter will thus be properly recognised here in strasbourg. thirdly, the european parliament will have a greater role in the legislative process of the union. the fourth democratic advance introduced by the reformed treaty concerns the rights of national parliaments, which will reinforce the principles of accountability and subsidiarity. however, the central feature of the democratic nature of the union remains the european parliament. one of the things i enjoy most when i'm in strasbourg is listening to the many political leaders and political figures from all over the world addressing this plenary on their aspirations for democracy, and their strong beliefs in freedom and individual rights. that really is one of the vocations of the european parliament to be the house for the voices of freedom in this world. it is something that should make all europeans proud. when you hear those voices, you also realize what we have achieved in europe, because once we also had people in european cities, marching for the same democratic rights. we should be very proud to live on a continent where, thanks to the european union, we can enjoy fundamental rights, and we will say that together when we approve the reform treaty and the charter of fundamental rights. the european union faces many challenges, both internal and external. our citizens want results. the treaty of lisbon will turn a new page in our ability to deliver, and will reinforce our capacity to act. in particular, the treaty will introduce substantial advances in the area of justice and home affairs. the reform treaty will also reinforce the european union's cohesion in external affairs. i personally attached the highest importance to one of the most important innovations in this treaty, which is precisely the creation of a high representative of the european union for foreign policy who will at the same time be vice-president of the commission. this is a great opportunity for the european union to act in a coherent and united manner in the world. our internal prosperity, our freedom and our security depend on the european union's capacity to act decisively at global level. with the reform treaty, europe will have the conditions and instruments to shape globalisation and not to hide from globalisation. we should not miss this opportunity. i know that some committed europeans are not happy with the number of opt-outs. the commission and i would obviously have preferred to avoid those opt-outs and specific arrangements. however, diversity is a central feature of the european union, and sometimes it requires political and institutional commitments. i would rather have specific opt-outs for specific countries than be forced to lower the overall level of ambition of our treaty and our europe. the crucial point is that despite our diversity, we remain united regarding fundamental goals, fundamental values and fundamental principles. we have many tasks ahead: economic reform, growth and jobs, the reinforcement of social cohesion, our focus on innovation, our proposals on energy and climate change, and our programme for justice, freedom and security. we need to keep proving that we are not engaged in institutional navel-gazing and show that we are dealing with the real issues facing europe. a great signal also came from the social partners on the very day of the beginning of our summit, when the social partners at european level agreed on an analysis of the labour market in europe, and in general terms welcomed the concept of flexicurity. this showed that the social partners also want to work with us in this proactive attitude towards globalisation. regarding lisbon, we also made progress on the second day of our summit. we discussed the great issue for the european union in the 21st century, which is to promote the european interest in the age of globalisation. our discussion was the natural complement to concluding the reform treaty. the message was clear: after concluding the negotiations on the institutions, let us put those discussions behind us and face the real issues that are of most concern to our citizens, where they want to see us delivering concrete results. we had a very positive debate. the paper presented by the commission, based on the concept of the european interest, was fully endorsed, and the decision was taken to work on a declaration on globalisation for the december european council, to show that tackling globalisation is a common thread in much of the european union's work today. the heads of state and government welcomed the concept of the fifth freedom: freedom of circulation of researchers and ideas, which is a cornerstone of our response to globalisation. that is particularly important, as we are engaged in crucial debates about galileo and preparing to implement the european institute of technology. i truly welcome the spirit in which that debate was held. it was clear that we now need to reinforce the external dimension of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. it was clear that without further commitment from the member states on issues concerning education, innovation, research and technology, we would not succeed. i think it is also fair to say that all member states recognise the need for a european-level approach and that we need more action at european level if we really want to succeed in the age of globalisation. this commission has argued all along that institutional reform is important, but that we also need delivery of results, side-by-side. as the commission said in 2005 and 2006, that twin-track approach was the way out of the institutional stalemate. in lisbon we achieved the strategic objective: we agreed on a reform treaty. now it is crucially important to achieve a further goal, which is the ratification of the lisbon treaty before the european elections in 2009. i believe there is, indeed, a new political confidence in europe. the last polls show the highest support for the european union since 1994. the political climate is right to move ahead. the igc and the lisbon informal council demonstrated that, when european institutions and member states cooperate, we are able to solve what seem to be even the most complicated and most challenging problems. it is my wish that the spirit of lisbon which brought us a consensus on the eu treaty will inspire the european union in the year to come towards a successful ratification process. we need it for a strong european union that delivers results for its citizens.
i am very grateful to the president of the commission.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. let me begin by thanking josé sócrates and luís amado. you had a difficult task, you had a very difficult task. i am not saying that the commission has not done its duty, but that it has done its duty. i would like to congratulate you on this, mr president-in-office. (applause from the centre) europe is facing major challenges - not just today, but for years. we have been debating the same problems over and over again for years. the gap between rich and poor is widening within the european union and in the world, between our continent and other continents : social justice at home and social justice worldwide is one of the major challenges for the eu. the island states belonging to the united nations have been crying out for help to the united nations for years. many of these countries know that if climate change continues at this rate and sea levels rise, they will be gone in the foreseeable future. climate change is not a theoretical issue, but a practical one, requiring immediate action by the european union. we are facing challenges. you have rightly taken on one of these challenges in your presidency: the african continent. we cannot as super-rich europeans watch this continent die, either from civil war or from aids. the portuguese presidency was therefore well advised to put africa at the centre of the portuguese presidency. we europeans, the states and parliament have been called upon to address this issue, and this, ladies and gentlemen, not just for a few years, but for a very long time. but since 2001, the european union has not been dealing mainly with these challenges, but mainly with constitutional issues. that was way too long! and it is good that this is over now, that the constitutional framework is finally in place so that we can take on the challenges of a political nature on this basis. the great success of this past weekend is that we can finally focus on what needs to be done politically, what the people expect of us. that is why, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there were encouraging signs last weekend. the summit with the social partners is a step in the right direction. capital and labour must once again be able to talk to each other on equal terms. for us socialists, this is an element of this new draft constitution - which cannot be called that, and it must be said that it is far behind the constitution - that social justice is practiced here in europe, through more participation of the european parliament. the qualified majority cannot do anything without us socialists, without the left in europe. i therefore say that this treaty will help to make european legislation more social, on the basis of the objectives which you agreed with the social partners at this summit. this gives us the opportunity, in future majority decisions - and also in agricultural policy - to tackle the reforms we have been advocating for a long time. these reforms are also necessary because anyone who wants to be credible at the world trade organisation, at the doha round, or in bali, will have to say at some point: yes, we need a reform of the subsidy policy in the european union. we have challenges to face. the american president is talking about world war iii and we are talking about whether the president of the european parliament has the right to vote or not! this is the disproportion that must be ended in europe. and that too can be ended by this draft treaty. i think we have made a great step forward with this agreement. europe is becoming more democratic, europe is becoming more transparent, the institutions are becoming more effective. we as the socialist group must admit that we have not got everything we wanted, and those who are already shouting that this is the constitution - i read in some british newspapers that some of my colleagues are saying that this is the constitution - i regret to say that they have neither read the constitution nor have they read this treaty. this treaty is behind the constitution. but it's much more than nice! and that's why progress doesn't always come to us the way we want it to. sometimes it's slower. but one thing can be said: what is on the table now is more appropriate democratically, socially and institutionally to enable us to tackle effectively the global social challenges we face. the socialist group in the european parliament, all the delegations of my group, can therefore, as our debate yesterday showed, agree to this treaty. (applause from the centre)
representatives of the european parliament at the intergovernmental conference. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! it has been possible to create a mandate in the german presidency and to implement and implement this mandate in the portuguese presidency. i thank you for that. the discussions over the last few days on many small matters have lost sight of the fact that this treaty is a breakthrough in democracy and the ability to act. the european parliament now has 95% of the legislation in the codecision procedure, because the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure has been abolished and because full rights in the budgetary field also exist in the agricultural field, because the european parliament has a say in treaties with third countries, in ratification, because the european parliament elects the president of the commission and because without the european parliament the commission and the high representative cannot take office. the fact is that the abolition of the third pillar has created capacity and democracy, and the new decision-making methods in the council, including the extension of co-decision, have improved capacity overall. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is a reversal of things that is of great importance. the charter of fundamental rights and the legal personality are there, and the uk's red lines have been fully maintained because in these areas opt-outs in law and home affairs are provided for in the charter. we have certain things to settle: the questions relating to article 24. we must fight to ensure that the council does not abuse the transition from one treaty to another when it comes to filling posts such as that of high commissioner. we can only say that there are 751 members of the european parliament and i see no difference in voting rights in this text. i must also say that we really have to make sure that this text is implemented, that we also implement constitutional reality as we understand this treaty. mr president, let me say this: in 1994 i was appointed for the first time - and i thank you for that - to the westendorp group on behalf of this house. this was my fourth intergovernmental conference. when we started, we had no say as a parliament. i would like to take this opportunity to thank, along with my two colleagues from this intergovernmental conference, elisabeth guigou, dimitris tsatsos, klaus hänsch and íñigo méndez de vigo for the good cooperation they have enjoyed over these 13 years.
i would also like to thank the commission for its continuity in its work to extend parliament's powers.
thank you, enrique barón crespo, for taking on this task, but also many other tasks before.
thank you very much, mr duff, for your great engagement in your responsibilities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have the lisbon strategy and we are now hopefully getting the lisbon treaty, and both are moving europe forward. this parliament, and in particular the constitutional committee, has been fighting and working for a new european treaty for seven years. we have not got the constitution, but we say that this reform treaty is progress in all respects. there is no point where we fall behind nice. everything is moving forward and will also take us further in the union of 27. we must also tell the citizens outside. the people of europe are the winners of the new treaty. there are many forms of direct and indirect participation in european politics, and we are able to solve the major problems mentioned here more quickly and better. the chambers of the european people, the national parliaments and this european chamber of the people, this parliament, are also winners. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it is not only the council that has been involved, but also the commission. that was the fourth settlement. i hope that was the last time the member states had to sit down together. all our efforts must now be directed towards ratification. i hope no country says no. this may be the last chance to get that new contract. any 'no' would lead to the isolation, if not the self-exclusion, of this country. we hope not. all the energy should be directed towards ratification so that we have this treaty by 2009.
i would also like to thank you for your report on the distribution of seats, and also adrien severin. you did a great job, and you got 99% of the vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in a liberating move, the european union has broken out of its constitutional deadlock. the new european union will be more capable, more democratic and more transparent, and will be able to fulfil its tasks more successfully at home and in the world. that is good, and in that respect, congratulations to the portuguese presidency! if i say with pride that the german presidency of the council was the starting point of the road to lisbon, you will not take it personally as a german. now, not all problems are solved. the absurd episode of the 751st mandate, the president's right to vote, has made this clear. it is not a question of whether the council has the right to restrict the voting rights of an elected member of parliament, whatever his position. i am grateful to the president and to the representatives of parliament in the intergovernmental conference for their rapid and clear statement of this. there is a problem, though. it concerns the composition of the parliament, which is still unclear as of 2014. and i am convinced that the point here is to find a system which, independently of political arbitrariness, regulates and determines the composition of parliament according to objective criteria. it is not acceptable for the council to allocate the seats of parliament in a manner that is, so to speak, patronage. that is why we must continue to work until 2014. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. this is a very important step towards involving the national parliaments in the responsibility for european legislation as far as subsidiarity is concerned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall continue to do so in the future. i can only ask the national parliaments to make full use of these new possibilities. (applause from the centre)
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the excellent debate we had on the summit and the lisbon treaty. let me start here. we can say whatever we want about this new treaty, but one thing no one can say is that europe is not stronger after this treaty. this treaty affirms european values, the good values that have always been at the basis of the construction of the european project. this treaty strengthens the european economy and this treaty creates the conditions for europe to play its role in the world better. this is a treaty which makes the european institutions and the political functioning of europe more democratic, as has been noted by many. this treaty gives the european union 27 the conditions for more efficient decision-making and those who like democracy also want democracy to be appreciated as a method of making effective decisions and all those who follow european political life realise that europe needed more efficiency in decision-making. finally, i would like to say to all those who have doubts about the treaty and about the capacity of europe - please wake up to reality, the world has already said what its conclusion on the treaty was. europe has become stronger, more able to respond to global challenges, more able to respond to what strategic issues are and the world has looked to europe after lisbon with the hope that europe is back to take its role in the world. no, this treaty has made us progress. the others have said it about europe: no, no doubt, wake up, we are stronger. europe is more confident after the lisbon agreement and europe is now in a position to speak out about the future, it is in a position to move from a defensive discourse during the last few years to an offensive discourse. graham watson was kind enough to mention the word 'person' in his speech. i want to thank you very much for this personal kindness, since you are one of our great poets and i want to evoke person with another verse: he once said, "i miss the future". i too, as a european, miss the future and i miss the time when europe discussed the future, took the lead, and that is the time i miss and i think this treaty gives europe the conditions to do so. if i may, mr president, i would also like to make two clarifications: the first is on the president of parliament, to tell the honourable members that it never occurred to anyone that the council would propose that the president of parliament should not have the right to vote. i am sure it will, i do not know where this misunderstanding came from, but what the council has decided is that this european parliament will have 751 members (750 plus the president). then i would also like to say that the ioannina clause has been resolved as i always said it would be. iannina the european parliament, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter. i also want to commend the previous presidency, as i have always done and always do in the same way. there were two decisive moments in the whole process of this treaty. the first decisive moment was when angela merkel, in october last year, decided to make the question of the treaty the central issue of her presidency and future presidencies. that was an act of political courage, of political risk. back then, nobody gave a damn about the conditions for success. this is what i call a decisive moment because europe needed to return to politics and also to return to political courage and risk. the other decisive moment, as i have had occasion to say, was when we decided, taking advantage of the moment of the last council, to make the agreement as early as october and not leave it for december. finally, mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that there are certainly many, many people in europe who have never believed in europe who are as dissatisfied with this treaty as they would be with any other. but there are perhaps some who would like to see another treaty and it is worth having a dialogue with them to tell them that at this moment the alternative was between this treaty or maintaining the institutional crisis. and i think that all those who are aware that a politician should deal with reality and not fantasy support what was decided in lisbon. and as for ratification, i want to make it clear that ratification is a matter that concerns each of the countries. but what i cannot accept as a democrat is that those who fight for national referendums do so by trying to undermine representative democracy by calling into question the legitimacy of the ratifications in parliament. (applause) i would like to thank i am a democrat and europe is democratic and because it is democratic we leave it to each country to decide the best method of ratification. finally, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very proud, very pleased and honoured to have been able to take part with so many others in a historic and decisive moment, the moment when the treaty of lisbon was born, because it means that europe will move forward. (applause from the left)
president josé sócrates, i would like to thank you. i would also like to express my sincere thanks to mr amado, mr lobo antunes, mr mendonça e moura and the legal service, coordinated by mr pires.
president of the commission. mr president, ms thyssen asked a specific question: can we make progress between now and the final ratification? as i said, it is by delivering results to european citizens that we can help to create the right political environment to facilitate ratification. it would be a mistake to slow down our delivery, and it would be against the twin-track strategy central to the commission, which stated that we should at the same time solve the political institutional matters and deliver concrete results to our citizens. on the contrary, this commission, and i am sure also this parliament, should be active – and we could be even more active together – in promoting a european citizens’ agenda. the second issue concerned communication and democracy. communicating about a treaty and explaining it to our public is primarily the responsibility of the national authorities. however, it is also a task for the european institutions. i agree with what mr queiró said about the importance of the role of the european parliament in this matter. we in the commission are ready to assume our responsibility in close cooperation with member states and the european parliament. i agree with the points made about subsidiarity by mr kelam and mr nassauer. it is very important to highlight the added value, in terms of democracy, of this treaty. it makes europe more democratic and more accountable and places a stronger emphasis on subsidiarity. subsidiarity is a way to reinforce europe and the european institutions, not to weaken those institutions, because by working close to the citizens they get more legitimacy and can take better decisions. i also believe that it is right in our communication, as mr corbett highlighted, to explain the new democratic dimension. we in the european union are proud to have this kind of democratic system. we can always make it better, but there is no other place in the world where there is such democratic participation at transnational level as the european union. we should also, in communication terms, make clear our reinforced capacity to act on behalf of the citizens in areas relevant to their concerns, like climate protection, energy and migration. those are concrete concerns for our citizens and we are addressing those concerns. in communication terms, we should also highlight the reinforced capacity to act in the international scene. finally, i want to highlight one point that was made clear by mr poignant and i thank him for highlighting the importance of jean monnet. it is true that this is not a perfect treaty, but sometimes people say we are giving up the values and the commitment of the founding fathers. that is not true. we are doing what jean monnet and many others have said, which is to build pas à pas – step by step – this common project, and we have to do it by conceding now that we have to commit to our citizens, and that we have to fulfil concrete tasks and deliver concrete results. the lisbon summit, in concentrating on the treaty and the institutions and, on the second day, showing the way to globalisation, and the way we can together reinforce our capacity to act so that we can meet the challenge of globalisation, has indeed set the agenda for the future of europe. it was therefore a great success, and the portuguese presidency, the member states, the european parliament and the commission should really celebrate this fact and look to the future with renewed confidence. (applause)
i thank you very much, mr president of the commission. this debate has shown that we can believe in the future of our european continent. we will continue to work diligently for this. thank you very much. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are all in favour of this. mr cohn-bendit has summed up what we all think. however, there are rules of procedure in this house, and they are not because we want to torture people, but because large groups with well over 200 members also have problems, which you, mr cohn-bendit, perhaps have to a lesser extent in your smaller group, namely that we have to be able to consult. if i add the members of the ppe-de group and my group together, there are well over 450 members in this house who need a little consultation time. i therefore propose that what mr cohn-bendit has said here, that we should tell the russian side that we consider this law to be unjustified and that it should be withdrawn, can be taken up by the commission and the council from here. this is certainly an expression of the will of the whole european parliament, as has already been made clear by this debate. but a resolution containing 60 or 70 paragraphs must also be subject to a little consultation, that is all that is required. we therefore ask for a debate, a draft resolution, but then for a vote at the next part-session. it's actually a fair compromise. i'm asking for your approval!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the members for the outcome of the vote. the outcome of the report on the sustainable use of plant protection products can be used as a basis for further work. we've got the tops out here. we have, however, placed the emphasis on education and information for users and also for sellers. only the expert and knowledgeable use of plant protection products ensures sustainability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we promote and support integrated plant protection. the commission is calling for the introduction of mandatory integrated pest management for all farming by 2014. we need common standards for this. integrated crop protection cannot be defined by fixed criteria, and certainly not at european level. integrated pest management must be developed with flexibility. it needs the impetus of good professional practice, it needs the momentum. we must maintain the momentum. that is why we must discuss this before the second reading. we still have the opportunity to reach a good agreement with the council and the commission on this matter, so that we can continue to make plant protection possible in the european union.
in writing. i am voting against the report because the clear line which is important to me is no longer there after the various amendments. the protection of plants is for the benefit of man and plant health and is not a pretext for policies which are not based on scientific knowledge.
in writing. i am voting against the report because it is not based on strict scientific criteria and because i think that the zoning model - whatever its form - is nonsensical. the only way to achieve a common market is to have a uniform authorization. i hope that the second reading will bring about a substantial improvement.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr kyösti virrankoski, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the general budget for 2008: specific programme iii - commission (c6-0287/2007 2007/2019(bud)) (a6-0397/2007) and the report by mr ville itälä, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the general budget for 2008: specific programmes i, ii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii and ix (c6-0288/2007 - 2007/2019 ((bud)) (a6-0394/2007).
before i give the floor to commissioner grybauskaite, i should like to express my surprise that the other commissioners we have asked to be here are not present. there are various reasons for this: apparently, our invitations were sent out a little late. i might be, i'll check that out. but i would remind the commission that, under an interinstitutional agreement, it must be present during the european parliament's week of part-sessions. i will look into the matter and i expect both the commission and, of course, parliament to respect our obligations under the interinstitutional agreements. i would ask the commissioner, mrs grybauskaite, who is present, to inform the commission of this. i have already said this at the conference of presidents. but i do not want to make any one-sided accusations here, but i will look into the matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by saying that we have a general problem with the existing financial perspective, because from the point of view of the green group, the budget we have until 2013 is not really adequate to the major challenges facing europe and the 27 member states. i would like to say that i see a lack of european spirit in the council when it comes to budgeting, when it comes to finances. i believe that we need, as we have already seen with the lisbon strategy, a real high-tech offensive for europe if we really want to shape the path to the knowledge society. we're way behind on that. i also believe that we need to do more for research and development and also for lifelong learning if we are to make european citizens truly fit and qualified for globalisation. we also have to - and as all the polls show, the european citizens demand that we - make a responsible foreign policy. but if we are to invest more in crisis prevention and responsible action in the world's crisis centres, we need the resources to do so, which we do not have enough of at the moment. and i think that, also, in terms of climate policy, we need to show the world that climate policy, in its right way, and selective growth go hand in hand. europe must take a big step forward, because only if we can convince the other continents and big countries like china and india and the united states that we can shape climate policy and create new jobs will we win the hearts of the citizens. on the other hand, i believe that there are of course ways of saving money in the european budget, for example in agricultural export subsidies, but also in tobacco growing and in the cost of our meetings here in strasbourg. we see that our large, ambitious scientific projects, such as galileo, the satellite navigation system, do not have the budget. many speakers have already said that. but if we think that is politically correct, the council must act here, otherwise we will lose our connection with the united states, but also with china and india. the european institute of technology: if we really want to show that europe is a continent that really values knowledge and wants to be a knowledge society, the council should do more here too. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this budget. it is only a compromise, but at least on the part of parliament it is a good compromise which we will defend.
these remarks deserve no answer.
member of the commission. i'd like to start right away by saying that it's a real pleasure to speak to you today, before the important vote, just after your first reading. i would like to thank first of all the president, mr bioge, and also the rapporteur-general, mr virrankoski, and all the political group coordinators for the really very successful, coordinated and positive work that has gone into reaching agreement on the first reading in the committee on budgets (cobu). and most importantly, i would like to thank you for the fact that all the lines that the commission has provided have been restored. for the establishment of practically all gdp lines, i would like to express my thanks to parliament. i repeat this in english, in case of an inexact interpretation, because that is the most important part of my speech. at the same time, i would also like to say that, no matter how satisfied we are and our cooperation is, we still have some comments to make and say that still, in most cases, parliament made reservations. this is something we tackled last year, and the commission was able to tackle last year, and we will try our best to ensure that all the conditions are met by the commission, providing all the information necessary for you to be able to release the reserves before second reading. i would like to mention in particular the pilot projects, where parliament took the initiative and put into practice this year an enlarged number of new pilot projects and preparatory actions which you propose. as usual, we will look carefully at each case and will present our opinion at the beginning of november through the so-called executability letter, which will come in time, well before conciliation and the second reading. on executive agencies, which are the very large, enlightening item on our budgetary procedure this year, i would also like to stress the constructive framework set by the july conciliation between us and the overall issue of agencies. i would also like to thank parliament, in particular ms haug, for her cooperation, especially in finalising the revision of working arrangements for executive agencies which we agreed recently. the commission will do its best to ensure, as an honest broker between the two budgetary authorities, and will try to have the best and balanced result between all of us for finding the budget, especially knowing and bearing in mind that we still have big problems to solve together, such as galileo and the eit, which is on the table after our proposal pending, mainly, the decision of the council. we are satisfied at how parliament tackled this question in the proposal and at first reading. so i hope that altogether all three of us we will be able to conclude the budgetary procedure successfully and on time.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission is not the expenditure ceiling for heading 4 is set at eur 7.002 billion under the multiannual financial framework. the council increased the commission's 2008 preliminary draft budget from 6,672 billion to 6,89 billion, mainly through additional amounts for palestine and kosovo. the ep has indicated at an early stage that these funds cannot be sufficient because they do not take into account foreseeable challenges. now we are hearing from the council that much higher amounts are needed, especially in the field of security policy. unfortunately, we still do not know what specific proposals are to be made. but we must agree with the council on the cfsp. let us therefore openly and honestly negotiate the actual needs for 2008. if we have agreed on an average of about eur 250 million per year for the cfsp from 2007 to 2013, then the underfinancing is already becoming apparent. our security policy costs are running out of time. another important issue is palestine. in 2007, we will spend well over the budget, up to 400 million euros. we need more money next year than the commission and council have proposed so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the exact division of tasks and financial needs for 2008 are also still unclear in the case of kosovo. i know, we'll have to wait for the exact mandate. i would like to conclude by referring to the political dialogue which we must establish soon. the european parliament has made its case for it in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and has enshrined it in the interinstitutional agreement. this would be the right forum to deal constructively with significant developments in a timely and mutually trusting manner. this would be the right framework for preparing for the review of the new financial instruments.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the development committee shall endeavour to set priorities through its expenditure entered in the budget. we know that development aid, our aid to the poorest people in the world, is not something that happens in a flash, and the results fall from the sky, but there are processes, and we have to work on those processes continuously. we have made it our priority to fight poverty. that means we have to provide people with education, and we have to make sure that they are healthy so that they can develop in their own environment, in their own home. we have invested a lot of money in the past to fight malaria, tuberculosis and aids, and we want to help ensure that these countries can actually develop by taking preventive measures, such as the elimination of small arms, landmines, abc weapons, by establishing a conflict prevention network and cross-border cooperation between developing countries. but it cannot be - and this is my two little petites to the council and the commission - that the council, at short notice, just because a new item is on the agenda, says: 'now we are going to start rearranging everything'. we must help kosovo and we must help palestine, and we agree with him on that. you have to do that, but you can't do it by taking money from other poorest of the poor and thinking that you can see some sort of continuity in this shuttle station or that people outside would feel that we're really focused on helping the poorest of the poor. we must also have new money, and i know we are talking about the tax money of our citizens, but we must tell them clearly. if you do that, you'll be successful. the second point is addressed to the commission. they know exactly what our priorities are in the fight against poverty. i mentioned it just now: health care and basic education so that people can work for themselves at home. we have put a lot of money in reserve and we will not release that money until you have made it clear that you have accepted and accepted this priority of parliament. this is not a micro-management we want to do, but we have made a political decision on values which is agreed with you. we will press for and we will ensure that this becomes a reality, as in other cases of foreign policy, and we will therefore use our budgetary rights and budgetary possibilities to apply the appropriate pressure on you.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am particularly pleased that the commission is now planning to spend 44.2% of the budget, or eur 57 billion, on growth and employment. this will increase the relevant budget lines for 2008 by eur 2.3 billion and provide sustained support for the lisbon strategy. i would like to emphasize in particular the three pilot projects in the social field, although the committee on budgets did not approve the appropriations in one case and made substantial cuts in another. i am particularly concerned about the health employment situation project, which has been cut back a little by the committee on budgets. since the enlargements of the eu in 2004 and 2007, there have been significant problems here. the pilot project should therefore be carried out with the equipment we have proposed. this is particularly true of possible arrangements for social services. the same applies to the project we have proposed in addition, namely the social integration of migrants. i therefore ask for support for the amendments we have tabled again. i would also like to advertise once again the family project to be carried out by the foundation in dublin, which we are proposing to support with 400 000 euros, but which have been completely cancelled by the committee on budgets. family-friendly jobs, the improvement of the housing situation of families and the permanent support of families are also priority objectives for us in europe. the foundation's work programme in dublin should therefore include the discussion of these issues and, of course, the necessary financial resources should be made available.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on the environment has in its field brought back the budget figures cut down by the council to the sums of the commission's preliminary draft budget. this represents an increase of 10.3% on the 2007 budget for the environment. we also think that this is quite appropriate for the most important instruments in the environmental field. the emea, the eea, efsa and ecdc - these are the acronyms for our agencies, whose work we are very happy with - have also got their money back. life+ is decided, work begins, and the new health action programme replaces the old one from january 2008. so far so good all of this! we will certainly be able to carry out an evaluation at the end of the year or in 2009. we are concerned about the help programme. we know how harmful tobacco use is. we also want the european public to know and see it. 2008 is the last financial year in which we will receive money from the tobacco fund for this campaign against smoking. we call on the commission to think very quickly about where the money for this campaign for the following years can come from.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues on the committee on budgets for their constructive and good cooperation, as always. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is the galileo project, which has already been discussed today, and the second is the european institute of technology project. both initiatives are pioneering projects of fundamental importance for innovation and industrial policy and deserve our full support. the european institute of technology will make an important contribution to the transfer of technology from science to industry and to business. there is still a need to catch up in europe. however, the question of funding is raised. the committee on industry has made it clear that funding should not be at the expense of other forward-looking programmes. so we cannot take money from the seventh framework programme for research, from a lifelong learning programme or from the transeuropean networks programme to finance the european institute of technology. no, we in the committee on industry are calling for the administrative budget to be shifted to the eit. i am glad that the committee on budgets has taken up this matter. the committee on industry also calls for clear financing, including a separate budget line. galileo is much more problematic. perhaps you will allow me to emphasize this from an industrial policy point of view: i think there is a consensus that we need galileo and that funding must also be secured. the last resolution on galileo showed that parliament was in favour of community funding, as proposed by the commission. on the other hand, i think it is crucial that the project finally goes ahead. the project does not have to be restarted, but can build on significant previous work by the industrial companies involved. this should be taken into account in the forthcoming negotiations. i will leave the rest of the galileo debate to my colleague, mr böge, who will be in charge of the negotiations with his colleagues in the committee on budgets.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not i am speaking on behalf of the committee on culture, which is responsible not only for culture but also for education, youth, the media and sport. our budget is very limited in terms of what we want. i think that when you consider the success of the erasmus programme, which has allowed students in europe to study in different countries, make friends in europe and then talk about it in their circle of friends and acquaintances, it is clear that this is a major contribution to practical policy of understanding in europe. i believe that we should do even more for communications now that the heads of state and government have agreed on a reform treaty. the idea of going local, that is, of involving local people in the european future, is crucial. i am glad that at least two pilot projects were possible: in the euroglobe area, a mobile theatre like in shakespeare's time, which will tour the european capitals to really involve the citizens, and also a cultural project on artist mobility, so that the young artists of europe can come together, collaborate and shape the european future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this year, the council has done exactly what it always does: it has had its officials in the finance ministries draw up a budget which reflects the council's main objective of 'going by the numbers' and above all 'going by the payments'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no, not at all! the council, in its various formations, still likes to give speeches on sundays and leave the monthly work to others, namely parliament. it does not matter whether it is foreign policy, aid to kosovo or to palestine, or whether it is the implementation of the policy which is of the utmost importance for europe, indeed vital for its survival: competitiveness for growth and employment. the fact that the financing of this policy in particular would be in trouble in the foreseeable future was foreseen and stated by parliament during the negotiations on the financial perspective a year and a half ago. the council has not been heard. now he must feel! because sooner than we thought, we are faced with the situation that we have to save the galileo project with public funds, because the dream of entrepreneurship has been shattered. the european parliament has quite quickly agreed to finance the start-up of galileo with european money, using the community method! we consider anything else to be quackery. they're not gonna get in our bag! we are prepared to provide galileo with the €1 billion already planned, with €2.4 billion from 2008 to 2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in 2007 and 2008, the figure for category 2 was eur 2.2 billion, and for category 5 eur 220 million. it's a lot of money, but it's possible without losing money. agricultural prices on the world market are high. as a result, our subsidies may be lower. the transaction for which we have already laid the basis in the committee on budgets at first reading is called a 'small revision'. whoa! a revision, however small, is a revision that the council shuns like the devil the holy water. yeah, but that's his problem now. we are prepared to work with the council to create the necessary conditions for galileo, for galileo, a flagship of european technological innovation. the fact that we are also prepared to provide money for the european institute of technology in the course of this small revision is worth a footnote to us now, given the size, no, the smallness of the sum needed for the time being - €2.9 million from 2008 to 2013 - for the time being. we expect the council to move in and towards parliament! mr president, allow me to make one further comment. we had actually expected the portuguese presidency of the council to have the finance ministers or at least one state secretary present at the first reading debate, and we welcome him warmly. i have no objection to you, mr mourato, but the portuguese vice-president of our parliament is not a compensation for this.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have the honour to deal today with two important reserves in the commission's budget: one for building policy and one for staff. for the latter, the staff screening has shown us that almost 11 000 staff in the commission are involved in administrative support and coordination - that is, the administration of the administration. if we add translators and housekeepers, it is the sector with the highest growth in staff. that's another 5,700 people. if we talk occasionally about better regulation, we must also call for better organisation from now on. we need more information to do that, and that's what the reserve is for. the commission was asked by parliament to benchmark the positions of the member states against those of international organisations. the commission does not make this comparison available to us, because of the anonymity agreed with these organisations. this is a powerful piece, and we can only move forward if parliament gets the information it needs - real information and not fragments. the screening provides a unique and first-time insight into the commission's staff structure. we thank you for that. but the conclusions, i.e. an action plan by the commission, are missing. i really want to ask for this action plan to come through. the conclusions for the building policy in brussels are also missing. the commission's july communication on building requirements does not take account of the results of the april staff screening, although the responsibilities are shared by the same commissioner. it's not you, commissioner. this is disappointing and must not continue. the sums which parliament has put into reserve force the commission to link these two documents together, and the commission must finally do its work on this point, because i do not think that the results of the personnel screening so far have been transferable to our electorate.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. first of all, i'd like to thank all the housekeeping staff for their hard work. i would like to make a few comments from the point of view of the committee on regional development. the commission has assessed the financial needs in its appropriation estimates and, in accordance with the thresholds of the interinstitutional agreement and the provisions of the financial perspective, has taken into account the expected applications for the current period. the logical consequence is that commitments under the structural funds will increase by 0.9% in 2008, payments by 3.2% and the resources for the cohesion fund by 14.4% for commitments and 36% for payments. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to make the necessary adjustments to the budget. our amendments also sought to simplify administration and increase the efficiency of the use of funds, particularly in the light of the lisbon and gothenburg objectives. we were concerned with the special position of small and mediumsized enterprises and traditional small firms, and with research and development. last but not least, we wanted to give special attention to the jeremie and jessica initiatives, to name just a few regional policy priorities. we also support the commission in the future demographic challenges in europe, namely that in regions and even in entire member states the ageing of the population has become a major problem due to declining birth rates. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. this is a forward-looking policy which must also be reflected in the regional policy priorities.
chairman of the committee on budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on budgets recommends to the plenary at first reading a budget for 2008 of eur 129.6 billion for commitments and eur 124.2 billion for payments, in strict compliance with all our agreements and commitments, both in the multiannual programmes and in the financial perspective, and i would add, far below the ceilings we have agreed in this multiannual programming, in the sense of budgetary discipline and at the same time linked to an offer to the council to resolve current issues such as galileo and the financing of foreign and security policy in a sustainable way. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr itälä and mr virrankoski, who, together with the coordinators and the staff, have done an excellent job of preparing this first reading. i shall come first to the parliament's budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have been able to resolve some of the conflicting positions there in a reasonable and satisfactory manner. i would also like to say that a bureau and an administration must be able to accept questions and criticism from the committee on budgets, that is part of our job. part of the conflict, which we talk about every year, could be resolved by giving two or three weeks in the future between the presentation of the administrative proposal on parliament's budget and the decision of the bureau, so that the political groups could be more closely listened to, that is, at the beginning of the process and not at the end of the procedure. commissioner, in your letter of 17 october you again set out the implementation of the budget at the end of september . you have explained where it is working well and where it is not, where programmes may have been implemented too late, where perhaps the commission itself has been a little too micro-managing in other matters to the member states. but overall, there has been an improvement in implementation between the may report and today. if the commission wants to remain credible, it can no longer use the arguments of late implementation and other difficulties for 2008 to justify delays in commitments and payments in the implementation of the 2008 budget. we can say today that the interinstitutional agreement on agencies, starting with the german presidency and ending with the portuguese presidency, and the excellent work of our permanent rapporteur, jutta haug, have succeeded in bringing about a new development in the agencies, so that in future there will be no agencies without a sufficient cost-benefit analysis, without clarifying whether there is added value. it is therefore important to continue this with the code of conduct which is now also being agreed by the executive agencies. i would also say, madam commissioner, that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have been very careful with the commission's administrative budget this year. it doesn't have to be like this every year. but the continuation of the job evaluation, the screening, the development, to do this with care and without exaggeration, but also very transparently, that remains on the agenda for us. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have taken a very clear position on galileo. if we have discussed the reform treaty this morning and have given it our massive support, then that means that we will continue to use the community method. if member states think they can rely on a mixed funding scheme for galileo or on funding outside the community budget, then this is simply absurd and incomprehensible in the light of this development in europe. the second point i would like to raise is the financing of the common foreign and security policy. without parliament, the cfsp would be bankrupt today, because we would be about 90 million euros short of the sum agreed by the heads of state or government in december 2005. if i now hear that we may have to go far beyond what the council and the commission have put before us, and palestine and kosovo are added to that, then we are prepared to find ways of doing so. we shall therefore have to discuss the flexibility instrument, as the vote will show. this is also true of the further pursuit of parliament's interests, as the committee on development has rightly and strongly called for. the presidency must be aware that, with the exception of galileo and the common foreign and security policy, parliament can decide everything on its own. that is why i urge you to get a sufficient mandate in the council so that we can put galileo and foreign and security policy - and hopefully not just for 2008 - on a solid footing. if this does not succeed, we will have to sit down together again in the course of the 2008 budget. the door is open to all negotiations, but we expect a clear signal from the council that it is moving on these two key issues. the 2008 budget will be there in any case, from the parliament's point of view. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. i can with pleasure provide you with all the details of our career development system, which is one of the most complicated systems in the world, i must say, and which is a matter for constant debate. there is a yearly evaluation of every single official. there is a promotion system which takes account of this evaluation and offers a certain number of points, which, consequently, form the basis for promotion. this system is quite detailed and developed. you are right also in asking about the quality of the staff. concerning the average open competition or ‘concours’, there are approximately 42 serious applicants – not to mention other applicants – to each published post. this is the case during the year, so we have always had a large influx of very good and experienced people, and the recruitment tests are very difficult. i must say that it is not such an easy life inside the commission and not so calm and quiet until pensionable age. however, you are also right to state that most officials will really work a very long time in the commission, and this can also be considered an advantage for the commission.
you mentioned personnel screening several times today. one of the results of the staff screening was that 32% of commission staff are involved in the administration of the administration, namely in administrative support and coordination. that's 11,000 people! question: when will you draw conclusions from this figure? when will there be a plan of action on the restructuring of the staff?
member of the commission. we are indeed looking at all these aspects. but i would just reinforce the point i originally made: we want to secure the best, most far-reaching, most inclusive agreement for the post-2012 period that we possibly can. that requires a great deal of persuasion of our trading partners, the emerging economies, who we need to persuade to buy into and sign up to the post-2012 agreement that we all agree is greatly needed and which needs to have the maximum geographical coverage. the question we have to ask ourselves is with what tactics we can, or are most likely to, persuade emerging economies to sign up to the agreement that we want to promote. in our view, it would not only be premature, but it would be counterproductive, to start using a stick or threats or create a scenario in which those who might be inclined to hold back would be somehow punished by some trade measure or other because they fell into the category of free riders. if the time comes to reflect on such measures, then we would only approach that after considerable reflection and consultation, and, of course, any measure that we were even to contemplate would – and i have to stress this – need to be assessed for its wto compatibility. there is no question of the european union promoting or adopting a measure that is not clearly and firmly wto-compliant.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'd like to make a request. my colleague papastamkos is quite right when he says that we must think of ways of avoiding any disadvantages for european companies if other countries do not participate in a successor system to kyoto. there are three possibilities: firstly, we are the only ones in the european union who are committed. this will, of course, put a financial burden on the companies and put us at a disadvantage. the second possibility is that if others do not participate, we will not participate, and we will not be able to achieve the climate goals we set ourselves. the third possibility is that if the others do not participate in this kyoto plus or post-kyoto system, we will actually adopt appropriate sanctions. what could be the practical nature of these sanctions? can you think of any specific sanctions?
member of the commission. we are some way from having to contemplate what would happen if the negotiations we are approaching, which have not even yet started, might fail. we are a long way from considering the implications or consequences of certain nations declining to sign up to, and making, appropriate commitments. therefore, to have a discussion tonight about sanctions is, as i say, not only premature but also quite possibly counter-productive. it is the case that there are discussions going on within the commission in the review of the emissions trading scheme (ets) and in the examination of the position, particularly, of energy-intensive industries under that scheme. the latter is fully taken into account in our common efforts to design an improved ets, and the position of those industries will certainly be considered in the context of any international agreement that is negotiated and the implications for european industries, particularly energy-intensive ones, if we do not create the level playing field that we are seeking through negotiation.
member of the commission. the commission appreciates the interest shown by parliament in a review of the trade defence instruments (tdis) and reiterates the importance it attaches to the views of parliament in the context of the current review. it looks forward to the report by the committee on international trade, which it hopes will be completed soon. on its side, the commission is finalising its response to the consultation process. indeed, the commission held a preliminary discussion, an orientation debate, before its meeting today on this subject. proposals to the council could be made in the next weeks. the commission intends to keep parliament closely involved and informed on this. the commission has, of course, carefully examined all reactions to the green paper, of which there are many hundreds. the intention now is to inform member states and parliament of the main reactions and suggestions received, and these will also be published. they will be discussed by the commission again before proposals are tabled to the council, hopefully in the last half of november. most stakeholders consulted and submitting their views share the commission’s opinion that tdis remain essential in a globalising world economy where multilaterally-agreed competition rules are lacking. also, the majority of stakeholders do not see the need for a major overhaul of the tdi system. neither does the commission. however, there is also a wish for the rules to be made clearer, as well as for increased transparency and for there to be more efficient application of the instruments. the claim that the commission has changed its approach towards the assessment of community interest in some recent cases is simply not true. each case has been examined on the basis of its own technical merits. some cases have raised atypical issues, but they have been resolved in line with community legislation and within the small discretion allowed by that legislation, after thorough discussion with member states. lastly, it is correct that no new anti-dumping investigations were initiated in the first half of 2007. however, it should be pointed out that anti-dumping investigations are industry-driven and are not initiated by us. in other words, they are initiated on the basis of complaints from community industry. in the first six months of 2007, no complaints meeting the requirements of the law were lodged. it is not unusual that the number of initiations varies from one year to another, depending on factors such as the business cycle, over-capacity in third countries and diversion of trade as a result of trade defence measures in other world markets. the number of initiations has also fluctuated in past years. in 2003, for example, the commission initiated in total only eight new investigations, the first of which was initiated at the end of may in that year. also, the first semester of 2007 followed a period of exceptionally high activity at the end of 2006. finally, i would draw your attention to the fact that in september 2007 two new anti-dumping investigations were initiated against imports from china: one for citric acid and another for monosodium glutamate.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much for your comments. transparency plays a major role in this process. when will we finally get the green paper survey results? either there is no evaluation yet, in which case you would have produced your present paper without an evaluation, or there is the evaluation - which i am assuming - and it must finally be presented to the public and parliament. secondly, i am interested to know whether you really think it is legally possible to define essential matters without amending the basic regulation by means of new guidelines. thirdly, why do you want to equate market and non-market economies? and fourthly, where do you see the percentage limit for production abroad, to speak of community production?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. this discussion is crazy. we've been talking for years about falling prices, about lows, about historic lows. all the speakers who are now complaining that prices are going up - finally going up - are calling for measures to offset these price increases. we should be glad the market is working, with your help too. with the help of your predecessors, but also with the demands of the european parliament, the billions of dollars that went into intervention, into the so-called price stabilization, that is, into the price pressure that has destroyed market prices on the world market and has put the third world countries in difficulty, have been abolished. finally, this circumstance has now been removed, and we are approaching the market, entering a situation which is still fuelled by the production of fuels from corn. there are many other reasons why the market is now in such high demand. the market reacts, the price goes up, and now we are asking here in the european parliament as farmers' representatives to bring prices down, please. i have never seen anything so crazy in my 20-25 years in this parliament! that's why i was clapping at mr. busk. we should be glad that the situation is like this. of course, we must keep in mind those who cannot afford food at normal prices. we should have to take action against a wrong or failed wage or social policy in the countries, but we cannot take action on the backs of the farmers, who have been thrown out of production by the hundreds of thousands in recent years, to ensure that the poor have the food they need. this discussion is totally wrong! i'm glad we can even discuss this situation here and that we have a market where prices are finally going up.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am pleased that the european union is once again discussing the issue of tobacco use in europe. in my country alone, 350 people die every day from the effects of tobacco consumption, and it is therefore only right that we should also be concerned about these issues throughout europe. i am very pleased that the committee has decided to launch a european initiative to further promote the ban on smoking in restaurants and public buildings. i think that's a good approach. it is possible to argue whether it should be european legislation or national legislation, which might then be drawn up within the european framework. those of you who still think that this is not necessary should remember that we were debating the fine dust directive we passed here a few weeks ago, whether we should accept 20 or 25 ppm of dust in the air. commissioner, in a normal pub, it's 540 grams and in the "aviateur" - this is a popular place after midnight - they have 1730 grams. this is a good way of showing the differences and the need for this. the other big issue that has been important to me for many years is additives. 600 additives are still allowed in cigarettes; 70 to 80 of them are on the red list. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances. these substances must be subjected to very critical and intensive testing. the producers of these products must of course pay the costs. it is not acceptable that commissioner kyprianou should have to spend his last penny just to pay for tests that industry causes. so the question of costs must be clear and it must be directed at the commission. i think we can get a lot of the major disease-causing substances out of cigarettes. of course, cigarettes are still dangerous. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we have long since introduced producer responsibility in many areas. if you drive a car into a ditch today and it was caused by a defect in the car, the manufacturer of the car has to pay. i would like to see the commissioner make every effort to introduce this redistribution of costs to the tobacco producers. because, if you think about it, in my country, it's 50 billion euros that we use to get people back on their feet. and why should the one who has never held a cigarette in his life participate? this is highly anti-social and i would also be glad if the social policy-makers on this side of the house would work hard on this issue. the cost must go where it belongs, and that is to the producers. i understand that they then pass it on, that's the way things are in a social market economy. thousands of people die every day in europe from smoking. that is why we must set up serious but strict rules.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. congratulations to karl-heinz florenz, on his birthday afterwards. we know smoking kills. 650,000 people die from secondhand smoke every year, and 79,000 adults die from secondhand smoke. we expressly welcome the eu commission's committed approach and are pleased that the ep health committee has made clear and strong proposals. we also have the support of the majority of the citizens. almost 70% of people do not smoke, the majority of smokers want to quit and eurobarometer has shown very clearly: 86% of respondents want a ban on smoking in the workplace, 84% for other indoor areas and 77% no smoking at all in restaurants. we are therefore very concerned about the amendment tabled by the rapporteur, because amendment no 3 would clearly dilute this strong report by our committee. it basically means a ban with exceptions, and we know that where there are exceptions, you very quickly become the rule. germany in particular has shown that we have made progress through the guidelines from brussels and through the debate at european level. it would be disastrous if the eu were no longer to be the leader in consumer health protection and if we were to stop halfway here. i therefore hope that we will reject amendment no 3 tomorrow and stand up for a strong european health policy, which will ultimately lead to a smoke-free zone throughout europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i also call on the non-smoking protection committee not to overburden the eu's powers. what are we talking about here? it is a question of stimulating the debate on a possible smoke-free europe, and not of starting a crusade against the consumers of a product which is legal in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report also calls for policies to create an environment in which smoking is no longer considered normal. i do not think it is the job of politicians to educate the people or tell them what to think. we should leave the church in the village when it comes to what the eu should and should not regulate. we are not competent to make regulations for the taxation of individual member states, nor are we competent to make any major smoking bans. the member states simply did not give us that. there is a trend towards non-smoking in europe. but to exploit this trend to pass excessive regulations and to ride the wave of public approval is bad style. we are talking here almost exclusively about prohibitions. in most cases, prohibitions only increase the attraction of the forbidden, and this is especially true of the target group we are looking at, namely young people. instead, we should focus our energy and money on educating people about the negative effects of tobacco use, as tailored to the target group as possible. it's the only way we're going to get people to make rational decisions in the long run.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the numbers on the effects of smoking speak for themselves. karl-heinz florenz rightly does not tire of pointing out that there are about 650 000 deaths per year from active smoking, 80 000 deaths per year from passive smoking, and 50 million euros in costs for health systems. in fact, there should be no discussion among us members of parliament about effective non-smoking protection. the debate is therefore not about whether to protect smokers, but about how. there are different models in europe for what effective non-smoking protection can look like. some countries, such as sweden and ireland, have strict smoking bans in restaurants and public buildings, while others have, for example, some strict exemptions. we should respect these different models. i therefore think that, in principle, the protection of non-smokers should be in the hands of the member states. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat smoking in the workplace, in particular by reducing the number of smokers in the workplace. i am in favour of the eu's adherence to the framework of its responsibility for occupational safety and health when it comes to introducing these regulations. i also call for the recognition of the existing rules in the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of workers is not compromised. member states which have been exemplary in their pioneering role must be rewarded. we must recognize this activity. we should take account of and accept national differences and regional specificities in each case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tobacco industry is not affected by the new legislation. we do not want to water down the non-smoking protection. in this way we achieve a high level of health protection while respecting the principle of subsidiarity and taking account of the interests and regional differences in the member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what we are discussing tonight and what we are voting on tomorrow will be a small but important building block in the cooperation between the institutions, between the commission, the council and parliament. the only way for parliament to do this is by giving its consent or its rejection. the negotiations, as the rapporteur, mr susta, and all the shadow rapporteurs - and i would like to thank my group's colleague, mr kader arif, in particular for this - have considerably widened the margin of manoeuvre we had, which was given. i would also like to thank the commissioner for having once again pointed out that this agreement, this protocol, which we will be voting in favour of tomorrow and which can then be ratified by the member states, is only one building block - an important building block, but also just one building block - and that many other actions still need to be taken to give the developing countries which do not have the production capacity for medicines the full opportunities they need to supply their populations with the essential medicines. this step will help us in our cooperation and will help us even more if parliament is given more voting rights in the many other policy areas, in the trade area. i would like to thank the council and the commission and all the members for the opportunity to achieve the flexibility we have now.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the european qualifications framework is the starting point for the emancipation of vocational education and training at eu level. the aim is to ensure that, as in academic education, qualifications are recognised throughout europe in the vocational field. it takes time and the willingness to cooperate and coordinate and rethink. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we need more transparency. national qualifications must be comparable without being standardised. i already called for this last year in the eqf initiative report i wrote for our house. a lot's happened since then. the commission has also been able to take account of the need to ensure that the member states are not left with a choice of the most appropriate means of achieving their objectives. i think of my country. during the recognisedly successful german presidency of the council, lifelong learning and the eqf were important stations. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of vocational training in the member states. i would like to thank mr mario mantovani, on behalf of the epp-ed group, for his tough negotiations with the commission and the council and for his information to all those who have dealt with the eqf in the political groups. i hope that tomorrow we will be able to adopt the report at first reading. from now on there is a lot of discussion between the trainers, the educators and the institutions when it comes to the details. i have just experienced this yesterday at a conference with vocational school teachers in hesse. in the case of the german master's degree, for example, the qualifications are classified as at least the third or even the fourth of the eight levels of achievement. others don't know it yet. the strength of the dual system will only be revealed to those who have experienced it firsthand. in our european teaching and learning workshop, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity, the vocational and employment dimension of education and training is being significantly strengthened. together we must and will succeed in achieving an ambitious goal: to firmly anchor the concept of quality in certificates and diplomas by 2010 eqf!
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on eu-turkey relations.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs ria oomen-ruijten, and also jos lagendijk and hannes swoboda for the really good cooperation they have given us in the preparation of this resolution. i think it is a good text, a text with a surprisingly high degree of consensus, that we have produced here. i think that's very good. i would like to emphasize and underline once again the most important points made by my group. firstly, this resolution is a positive, constructive signal to turkey. we welcome the fact that the constitutional crisis of the summer has been overcome; we welcome the fact that the new government has been given a strong and unambiguous mandate for further reforms. we also call very clearly for this mandate to be used to actually push reforms forward. the important thing, and this is also stated in the resolution, is that these reforms are important first and foremost for turkey itself, for the turkish people, for turkish society and for the turkish economy. turkey must improve itself independently and continuously. i am glad that there is a growing consensus on this in turkey. it was particularly evident in the april programme. it is good that this continues to be the case. we believe that the copenhagen criteria will continue to be the decisive yardstick for the negotiations, just as the european union's capacity to host will continue to be an important and indispensable criterion. in particular, there is an urgent need for reform in the following areas: the first is the question of the law of the sea. article 301 has been mentioned here, quite clearly. i think we should also be starting to include article 252 in the debate. insulting the memory of kemal mustafa ataturk is a problem, and that too is a restriction on free speech. the second important point is the improvement of the situation of women. the number of honour killings continues to be a cause for serious concern. the constitutional reform must go forward. fundamental human rights and personal freedoms must be protected. i would add that we also see the right to vote as a problem. no one else in the osce knows of a 10% threshold. in conclusion, let me say that we understand the difficult situation in turkey in view of the dramatic developments in the southeast on the turkish-iraqi border. we condemn unequivocally the terror of the pkk in recent weeks and i would like to express our condolences on behalf of my group to the families of the soldiers killed. we call on the turkish government to react with caution to this situation. we have no indication that this is not the case. however, it is important that measures taken to reduce the threat to turkish territory meet the following conditions: they must be appropriate, proportionate and limited in time and space. the european union understands the difficult situation. it is important from the turkish point of view that this understanding be maintained. a peaceful solution is, of course, our first priority. today's resolution is a really constructive signal for a good dialogue with turkey. turkey will remain a very important partner of the eu and must now, in its own interest, push ahead with reform.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to begin by thanking mrs oomen-ruijten for having presented this report, which was also a request from parliament to the commission, and which should be taken into account in the opinion on the progress report. turkey has overcome its internal political problems, the government has a clear mandate, the referendum on sunday to change the presidential constitution was successful and there is no reason to hesitate any longer on reforms. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. as we all know, relatively little has happened here in the past year. secondly, the reforms serve the turkish people themselves first and foremost, they are not an end in themselves or a harassment of europe, but in a democracy these shortcomings in freedom of expression, freedom of religion, women's rights, minority rights, voting rights, etc., must be addressed and eliminated on their own initiative. i would like to mention one subject, the armenian question. i believe that we as germans can demand a clear commitment from turkey to its historical responsibility on this issue. the refusal to speak out clearly and to lift the blockade against armenia is a point which must continue to play a role in the talks. we are currently - and mr swoboda has mentioned this - concerned that there will be military conflicts in the kurdish region, border crossings in iraq. we are clearly in favour of a diplomatic solution, a negotiated solution, rather than a military solution. i can only support the social democrats' position on this question in full. in the end, turkey must decide for itself whether and how it wants to take the path to europe. we do not consider the objective of full membership to be the only way forward, but the negotiations have been open to results, and it will also depend on turkey whether it wants to take this path in an offensive manner, not just on whether europe itself is receptive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, the vote on the parliament's resolution on turkey today is overshadowed by sad and worrying developments. last wednesday the turkish national assembly overwhelmingly gave the green light to a turkish military operation in northern iraq. since then we have been hearing sad news of deaths and casualties on the turkish-iraqi border, of bloody battles and skirmishes, of turkish shelling of villages in northern iraq, of attacks on kurdish institutions and dtp party offices, of attempts by angry nationalists to lynch their fellow kurds. the signals from turkey after the state crisis was resolved at the end of august were very promising. there was talk of a new civil constitution, further reforms and increased reform efforts to tackle the outstanding issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the motion for a resolution is balanced and fair in its assessment and appraisal. but in view of turkey's recent decision, the open threat of military invasion to violate iraq's territorial integrity, i wonder what turkey's real objectives are. is this really about the pkk? in recent years, the turkish military has carried out 24 cross-border operations, none of which has brought lasting success. why should it be any different this time? or is it the oil fields in the kirkuk region and turkey's intention to abolish the autonomous status of the kurds in northern iraq? it is clear that the solution to the kurdish question cannot be found by invading northern iraq. but i am also convinced that turkey cannot, in the eyes of the european union and the international community, violate international law and violate iraq's sovereignty. europe must now take responsibility and play an active part in developing a strategy to solve the kurdish question. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. with the resolution by mrs oomen-ruijten on turkey, the european parliament is sending a positive signal and has thus entered a new phase of constructive dialogue in its relations with turkey. turkey is currently engaged in an intense reform debate. we have a government in power now that can go to work with a clear mandate from the people. this provides an opportunity to give impetus to the accession process in some key areas. the introduction of additional requirements which are not the subject of the accession negotiations is counterproductive. the drafting of a new constitution is now a top priority in turkey. the main features of this new constitution are already visible. the request to revise article 301 of the turkish penal code is being considered by the turkish side. now turkey needs more positive signals from the eu. it must be encouraged to pursue this reform process with the greatest zeal. the commission is expected to present its progress report on 7 november. it seems to me very important that the commission's report should reflect the recent positive developments in turkey.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not stability and development in europe and the world are not possible without sensible cooperation between the european union and russia. what would i wish for, unlike samara? when you come back, please tell us that you have a common strategy with russia for solving the kosovo problem. they have a common strategy for the middle east peace process. they have a common position on the nuclear problem in iran and there is a common strategy for solving the transnistrian problem. it's not just about energy supplies. let's not talk about galileo. the industry doesn't want it, the taxpayer should pay for it. let us work together with russia to pursue a sensible energy policy based on new technologies. let's solve the problem of visa-free travel with russia. why haven't we gone a lot further in that area, just for these particular groups? i think there's a whole lot. how will the european union become a missile shield? will we say with russia: we do not want an american missile shield? i would love it if we could achieve that. of course, we must also criticise russia and tell it that if i oppose the anti-terrorism plans of mr schäuble and mr jung in the federal republic of germany, i must also tell russia that i do not want this anti-discrimination law. it's perfectly clear. if we believe that the situation in chechnya is in no way in line with human rights, then we must say so clearly and we must not forget that. i think good partners, if you have a reasonable partnership agreement, you can say this, you have to say this. we need russia, russia needs us, and we will move forward together if we put all the questions on the table and, above all, propose solutions.
(parliament adopted the resolution) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i hope that the eu-russia summit will lead to a pause and that we will define our common interests, which undoubtedly exist. interests that are economic in nature, that are security in nature, that are given in issues like the middle east and iran, counterterrorism and so on, and where we have to see that we cannot achieve our goals without russia being in the boat. but russia must also understand that not doing so is against its own interests. if i look at the demographic development of russia and the vastness of siberia and that there are countries with a lot of population, then i would imagine on the russian side a threat not from europe but in the long term from somewhere else. i think there is a high degree of agreement here that we have to do something. we in the so-called west, including the americans, did not take russia seriously when it was lying there, which is why it is now falling back into imperialist hands, also with regard to developments in russia itself, with regard to human rights and freedom of the press, with unacceptable remarks to be heard again, which have to do with the independence of the neighbouring states. it is not possible that from near abroad claims are made that one has to behave in a particular way towards a country. each country has the right to make its own sovereign decisions about where to go. russia must accept this. it cannot go back to old ideas and use energy as a weapon, which is even less acceptable. the only way to overcome this is to start analysing interests again. i hope that this will be possible again after the elections in russia and that this will also lead to russia not following a wrong economic development. with a lot of money from the oil and gas business, they're rebuilding the old combines of big industry in aircraft and shipbuilding and the like. if this goes badly, they will have the same disaster as before, because they are not building a sensible medium-sized broad economic structure, with all the consequences that go with it. it is also in our interest that no new vacuums should be created here in russia, if the oil price should not be the same.
the debate was closed by six motions for resolutions, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the socialist group has tabled a number of amendments. the commission is not i have a request to the president of the house, not to you as president-in-office, but to the president of the chamber. i have a request to make on behalf of my group. but i think i make this request on behalf of all the democratic groups in this house. it is my opinion and that of my colleagues that the matter is so serious that i would like to put it to you now and ask president pöttering to take action against the persons i have mentioned. in the last two days, there have been serious riots in budapest. this is not unusual demonstrations in european capitals are normal, even violent demonstrations. there is certainly something to be said for that, but it is not preventable. but what has happened in budapest in the last few days is a new quality. i'll tell you why. you can think of prime minister gyurcsány as you wish. you can be for him, you can be against him. what is not allowed, ladies and gentlemen... (a lot of commotion in the hall.) you can be for prime minister gyurcsány or you can be against him. what is not allowed, ladies and gentlemen - and i suggest you look carefully, who is already shouting - what is not allowed is that a prime minister in this european union is called a "dirty jew" at demonstrations. it's a quality that's new, but it's a quality of the fascists on this side of the house. (parliament adopted the resolution) i would be grateful, mr president, if you would ask mr pöttering to express the overwhelming approval of the house for the censure of these people. (the audience rises to applaud the speaker.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a request: pursuant to rule 155 (2), i ask that the order of voting on the amendments be changed. the vote on amendment no 51 is already more far-reaching than amendments nos 42 and 52. i therefore ask that we vote on amendment no 51 first and then on amendments nos 42 and 52.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i find it very regrettable that this house has not found the courage to criticise seriously the development of tax policy in the european union, which is going in the wrong direction, favouring multinational corporations, favouring wealthy people in an unbelievable way, while on the other hand consumers and workers, and especially low-income workers, are expected to pay more and more taxes. i do not think this report is acceptable in its present form. i would like to withdraw my name from this report and ask all those in this house who really care about a tax policy in the european union which serves not only the interests of the top ten thousand but really the interests of the majority of europeans to vote against this report.
in writing. the reul report is a report sponsored by the nuclear industry. nuclear energy is being presented as a technology of the future, against all reason. more eu research funding and eu budget should be directed towards promoting this dangerous dinosaur technology. despite the recent 'accidents' at vattenfall nuclear power plants, the focus is still on the expansion of nuclear energy in europe. in view of this, it is cynical to claim that nuclear power generation is becoming 'more and more secure'. instead of continuing to invest in such a problematic energy production, where the question of final storage is deliberately excluded, we must finally strive for a social and ecological change. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy. the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty. the report is entirely in the interest of the european nuclear industry's profit. the promotion of new nuclear power stations in the eu is unacceptable. the eu reform treaty is intended to lay down the legal basis for the granting of support for an indefinite period. another reason to reject the eu reform treaty. every extra cent for eu nuclear funding is one too many! the only sustainable energy policy is to promote the production of energy from renewable resources, solar, wind and hydroelectric power.
i have to say, madam president, i voted against the davies report because i think that in our decision we have taken an unacceptable and unworldly decision in principle, in the way that we have set uniform limits on co2 emissions from cars. there should have been a size and weight differential, also and especially for the sake of equal opportunities for producers in the european union. it's a difference, for example, whether i'm heating a room or heating a house. so it makes a difference whether you drive a big car or a small car. so there would have to be segmentation, weight staggering. we have failed to do so, and i regret that, and by this decision - which i did not support - we have missed an opportunity to strike a balance between environmental and industrial interests.
i have to say, madam president, i voted against the davies report because the amendments adopted have left us far behind the optimum of protecting the environment while promoting employment in europe and not burdening consumers excessively with high prices. we have essentially decided at the expense of employment, at the expense of consumers. we have technically moved away from the integrated approach that would have been necessary, which is to require everyone to contribute to the reduction of co2, not just the car manufacturers, but also the manufacturers of other components of the vehicles. we've lost the way. we have also not included weight, we have not done the weight segmentation which is important for european competitiveness because the heavier vehicles are the innovation we need in europe. we have set time horizons that are difficult or expensive to achieve, and we have committed the absurdity of not accepting the demand for carbon-based taxes in the countries, so that the cars that are high-carbon vehicles can continue to be on the market. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. i did not agree with the report by mr davies on a 'community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles'. however, in the direct vote in plenary i first agreed and then withdrew my agreement in writing. this information appears in the parliamentary documents of 25 october 2007. in my opinion, the report is very arbitrary and neither the needs of the automobile industry in germany nor environmental concerns are adequately taken into account. the report does not differentiate between the different weight classes of vehicles and thus imposes unrealizable requirements on vehicle manufacturers. at the same time, there is also an increasing comparison in advertising between the labelling requirements of tobacco and automotive products. the rapporteur (davies, english green liberal) was only able to compromise on one point during the deliberations on his report at the very end of the procedure. it was far too late to formulate a cross-party and sensible recommendation from parliament as a whole.
in writing. i have agreed to the proposals for the introduction of a binding average emission limit value with some stomach ache: it would be better to have a gradation according to the size and weight of the cars. although i am more in favour of voluntary commitments by industry, i believe that the automobile industry needs binding legal provisions. experience shows that voluntary commitment would fail in this case. we know that the eu-25's greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by just under 5% between 1990 and 2004. this does not apply to road transport: on the contrary, there is an increase of 26%. so there is an urgent need for action in this sector. the automotive industry must also play its part in reducing emissions. the 2012 date of introduction, which has been criticised for its alleged short-term nature, has been discussed for years. so the industry has known for a long time what is coming! but we must always bear in mind that in the interests of jobs and the competitiveness of the eu, a balance must be struck between environmental interests and those of the automotive industry. this industry is efficient and important for the eu. if we had no efficient economy, we would not have the money for environmental protection!
in writing. the european parliament has shown in its vote today that it is in favour of a tax policy which benefits the top ten thousand but is to the detriment of the vast majority of the population in the eu. although some of my proposals have been accepted, nobody is openly advocating higher vat rates, higher taxes on labour income or improved possibilities for eu-wide tax dumping. the commission's proposal to increase taxes on wealth or financial transactions and to limit tax dumping by introducing an eu-wide minimum tax on corporate profits was rejected by a majority of meps. the final report, after the individual votes, had little in common with my original draft report and, in certain respects, made the report voted on in the economic committee even worse, so i felt obliged to withdraw my name from the report and to call for a vote against it in the final vote. i consider it positive that relevant sections of the social democrats were also unable to support the final version of the report, as the result of the vote shows. today we have the opportunity to make clear the position of the european parliament on the need for a fairer and more socially acceptable tax policy. instead, the eu's failed policy was once again uncritically endorsed by the majority of the european parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. of course, we all know that smoking is bad for you. i have nevertheless voted against the report on a smoke-free europe for reasons of principle, because the following points are to be noted: nowhere else has the state made such a strong showing as in the fight against public smoking. the eu countries, and therefore we too, are intervening in the private lives of our citizens with anti-smoking legislation as never before. we are witnessing a state policy of prohibition in all areas, in principle a state education of the people. the report makes this clear. unanimity, or almost unanimity, as we have today, is no guarantee of freedom. the opposite is true: basically, and we should know this, freedom lives on the possibility of deviation from the norm. the good people are on the move, the state is playing the role of governess and all those who are involved and supporting this act as if it has nothing to do with freedom. you're wrong!
i have to say, madam president, i also voted against the report on a smoke-free europe. although i'm putting myself on the line for a witch hunt, even in this house. that is why so many colleagues simply did not dare to vote against the report, even though they do not want this policy of freezing. i am of course in favour of protecting non-smokers, children and young people, but this is a matter of principle. firstly, we are not responsible for health policy. that is a matter for the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. secondly, and this in particular: enough is enough! that is enough, ladies and gentlemen! for years the european level has been campaigning against smokers, against alcohol, against the fat people in europe, and this under the motto: our citizens are stupid, and therefore we must punish them by law. that's what i'm fighting against. the citizens i represent are not stupid. prohibition is always counterproductive, and i am a representative of the people, not a public educator.
in writing. i welcome all the measures taken in the member states to inform citizens about the dangers of smoking. in my view, all these measures are the responsibility of the member states and not the eu. that is why i voted against the florence report in the final vote.
i have to say, madam president, i did not vote for the resolution on turkey because i was already very busy. this could not be taken into account in the report, but it is topical that the turkish parliament has decided to launch a military strike against northern iraq. so fighting a terrorist group is different from deciding to invade a neighboring country. the eu cannot have an interest in the destabilisation of iraq. we should remind turkey that as a candidate country, the eu's interests should be taken into account in the context of the common interests. it is clear that full membership of turkey - which i do not support - with common borders with iran and iraq would mean a complete change of the political map within the eu. this is a dangerous thing to do, and we should avoid it.
in writing. i support the resolution on turkey: the turkish government must finally implement reforms vigorously! the european union is also committed to the protection of the rights of the armenian people, and to the protection of the rights of the armenian minority. in general, turkey is still a long way from meeting the copenhagen criteria. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime, including the use of child soldiers. there is still no progress on the cyprus question. that is why we must urge the ratification of the ankara protocol this year too. without this, and without the withdrawal of turkish forces from the island, there will be no solution. turkey does not seem to understand that the eu is made up of 27 member states, including the republic of cyprus! as regards the conflict in south-eastern turkey, the plan to invade northern iraq has been in place since spring 2006 at the latest. at this point, it is feared that the invasion will actually take place. but a country which, despite international support for securing its borders, claims to be allowed to violate international law at its own discretion is definitively disqualified from eu membership!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his comprehensive and good work. we very much welcome the fact that the european parliament is regularly and clearly involved in the political debate on the situation in south-eastern europe. serbia has played and continues to play a prominent role in the region. it is therefore essential to emphasise again and again that serbia's future lies in the eu and that we are good and reliable partners. only, a partnership has to involve at least two people. i therefore appeal to serbia to stick to the path of eu integration and also to contribute constructively to the solution of the kosovo question. we are finally expecting full cooperation with the hague tribunal - this has been said many times - but also the fulfilment of the requirements of european standards. i very much hope that the improved travel opportunities will also contribute to this and bring about an improvement in the future. i do not, however, agree with the suggestions made here and there to apply different standards to eu membership. i am glad that the rapporteur, the commissioner and the council representative are all thinking in the same direction, especially since we have only recently paid perhaps some tuition fees. i have great sympathy for the difficult and painful situation in serbia, but nevertheless, and again: a partnership requires at least two.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. mr kacin has presented a report which we have all supported. we've been working on this together a lot. i do not want to go into details, but i will make a few personal remarks. too late, the democratic forces made the radical break with the milošević era - much too late. that is to say, cooperation with the hague tribunal was not taken seriously and credibly. that is why we started our cooperation in the stabilisation and association agreement late, then interrupted it, resumed it, and now we are waiting again. so the path to the eu is pre-programmed and serbia's capacity is there, but it has to do some things on its own. the unresolved kosovo problem hangs like a dark cloud over the politics of serbia and paralyses it. who suffers? especially the younger generation. after an embargo, the nato bombing - and both are due to the serbs, not to the democratic forces now in power - these young people are now looking again at a problem that is virtually insoluble, namely the kosovo question. the efficient day-to-day political work is also suffering, and this is working in the hands of the radicals and their friends up there. thank god that the visa facilitation for which parliament has fought for so long will finally be implemented. we hope that young serbs will soon be able to participate in our education and youth programmes, which we have been running since 2007. i would also like to commend the welcome work of the vojvodina regional parliament in the field of tolerance and youth cooperation. in the danube region, a great number of young people have come together this year. it has become a wonderful work of tolerance and coexistence. there is a great longing for normality in serbia. the politicians should do more for the present and the future and finally leave the past where it is. that is why they must do more to improve the daily lives of the population, so that it does not run away from them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the future of the former yugoslav republic of serbia lies in europe. this applies to all the republics of the former yugoslavia. as with any potential candidate, there are prerequisites for joining this community of values. i am therefore grateful to the rapporteur not only for his report but also for his speech in which he made clear what the conditionalities are. the full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia is indeed a precondition for the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement. it is difficult for me to imagine that war criminals like mladić and karadžić still have many sympathizers, not only in the population but also in the police, the military and many officials in serbia, people with whom we will soon be negotiating the rapprochement with the eu. the european union has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. the kosovo question must also be formally considered separately. but i do not think that the policy of nationalist denial is helpful. i also think it is wrong to buy a russian veto in the security council by generously selling key companies to russian companies. in the end, that is the way the calculation works in belgrade: the eu is expected to compensate in the form of the stability and association agreement for concessions that were not made in the kosovo issue. we shall see after december 10. i therefore expressly support the position of mr lagendijk. the degree of cooperation on the kosovo issue is therefore either helpful or detrimental to the eu's approach. this should be noted in belgrade.
i have to say, madam president, i thank our rapporteur for her good, comprehensive report. there is a broad consensus in this house on the principles. it is high time that the eu-africa summit takes place in december. it's good that we're going to agree on a common strategy. the ep's position on the mugabe case has been known for years. but this gentleman must not become a stumbling block to a new chapter in european-african relations. i am convinced that there are enough european heads of government who have clear and explicit words for this gentleman. to do that, he must be present and bear the words. as chairman of the delegation for relations with the pan-african parliament, i have the honour to convey to you some specific parliamentary wishes for future cooperation, which we agreed to in midrand last week. africa's parliaments are largely neglected institutions, that is, despite their constitutional role on paper, they are usually not taken seriously by their own governments or by donors. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency') is based on the principle of the european medicines agency (hereinafter 'the agency'). it would also have the irresistible charm of having a domestic, democratically legitimized review body that would be more acceptable as a critic than as a foreign donor, especially when problems arise. i therefore urge the commission to include in its country programmes the capacity building of parliaments in a targeted way so that in a few years we can actually see that african policies have improved in terms of implementation for the benefit of the people, also with the help of the respective national parliaments.
i have to say, madam president, trade is a very important factor in african development policy. and of course, trade, if done right, can really help to minimize poverty, and it can help to improve health care in africa. he can help make education better. it can help to reduce illiteracy. but not in the way the commission has understood trade. i am glad that, either because reason has prevailed or because the pressure from african countries has become so strong, a different approach has been adopted by the commission since monday with regard to the economic partnership agreements, namely that no more absurd demands are made for reciprocity in the opening up of markets, that no more insistence is made on incorporating the singapore objectives, that it is acceptable to take out certain issues and talk only about the goods now and then at a later date about the other things. if we follow the same path as the doha development round, we may succeed there too, because we have always failed to do so. the wto has failed in this, the doha development round has failed in this, because the commission always insists: you must understand that we only want what is best for you, and if you do not understand this, we will not get an agreement. thank you. if you look at the report of this parliament - which was much smarter than the commission in this case - which my colleague mr sturdy drew up in 2006, it is clear that the demands that commissioner mandelson had to make now could have been accepted much earlier, and we would not have allowed it to go this far. you were on the committee, too, and we questioned you. what did you say? commissioner mandelson makes everything wonderful! i have to be quite frank, the council also has a responsibility, because it must finally approve the partnership agreement. it is not enough to say that we will let the commissioner do his job until he has done something. no, you have a responsibility, and i think it's to the epa. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the oslo process offers a historic opportunity to reach an international treaty - not just any declaration, but an international treaty - on the banning of cluster bombs. there have been two decades of campaigns, international initiatives, that have been stuck in the diplomatic tangle of military and economic interests. now we have a chance to get such a deal in 2008. this requires the support of not only parliament, which is taking a clear position on this issue across all the political groups. i was pleased to hear, mrs ferrero-waldner, that the commission supports this position. it is now very important that the council follows this clear position of parliament and the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of these weapons. the production of these bombs is to be banned and the european union remains one of the main producers of these weapons. in germany, britain, france, spain and belgium, these weapons are still being produced. in belgium and austria there is now a law prohibiting production, but i know that production in belgium has not yet stopped. this law also has loopholes. we must take the lead in renouncing these weapons. the member states must take the lead in denouncing these weapons and the council must adopt the clear position expressed here. then we can work together to get this agreement done in 2008!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i personally first became more involved in cluster bombs during the nato war of aggression against yugoslavia. this was one of the wars that i fought against, and that was fought by western states like many other wars. 98% of the victims of cluster bombs are civilians. 5 to 40% of the submunitions of cluster bombs do not explode. i just want to be clear here: it is mainly the large western industrial nations that produce cluster bombs, equip their armies with them and use cluster bombs in war. 34 countries produce cluster bombs, 13 of which are eu countries. scatter bombs are part of a kind of warfare involving eu countries, for example in yugoslavia, afghanistan or iraq. so please don't shed any crocodile tears. the eu must look to its own nose. this means, in concrete terms, that we need a common european union position against these terrible weapons of murder. that means no more production of cluster bombs and, of course, no more use of cluster bombs, as happened in the gulf war or in yugoslavia, afghanistan, iraq and lebanon. this can't happen again!
acting president of the council. as i have already said, mr president, the council's proposal and conclusions on the report by the present minister, mr barnier, are intended to provide a basis for future decisions. it was not a 100% endorsement, nor a partial endorsement of any kind, it was naturally what should constitute a basis for work, it was what the council agreed at this moment and as i said just now, naturally i cannot anticipate what the council's reaction will be to proposals which do not yet exist, to models which do not exist, to methods which do not exist, and so we would be anticipating history in some way. let us first wait for the commission's proposals, its analysis and its proposals. let us discuss them in the council and draw conclusions and also set guidelines in this respect. now here's one aspect that's important: the council, in asking the commission to submit proposals in this area, is clearly indicating its interest in this matter and its desire to make progress in this area, and that seems to me to be an undeniable and positive sign.
acting president of the council. mr president, professor ukshin hoti is one of the more than 2000 persons on the international committee of the red cross' list of those whose families reported them missing during the kosovo conflict. the committee of the red cross has been collecting information on missing persons in kosovo since january 1998. the information has been sent to the authorities in belgrade and pristina, along with a request that they do everything possible to find out his whereabouts. the committee of the red cross in kosovo is also working on this issue in close cooperation with the united nations mission in kosovo. as part of the dialogue on issues of common interest between pristina and belgrade, the group on missing persons, which includes representatives of both governments, has been meeting periodically since march 2004 under the auspices of the red cross. work is underway on both sides to clarify the fate of the missing, but progress is slow. the right to know the fate of missing loved ones is a fundamental concern of humanitarian law and a fundamental concern of human rights. the council of the union therefore supports the work carried out by the international and local authorities in serbia and kosovo to this end and encourages them to develop their efforts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, each victim has equal value, and that's why i welcome this inquiry. but professor hoti was very well known now, i'm in close contact with his family. he was the closest collaborator of our sakharov prize winner rugova, and he was officially detained by the serbs. then they must know where he is! the council must be able to make this official, and the belgrade government must be able to do so. what does the serbian government say about the whereabouts of its prisoner, for whom it was responsible when it imprisoned him?
member of the commission. madam president, i think it was a very interesting discussion. again, i appreciate mr cappato’s courageous idea. but, again, let me also argue and say: yes, it is true that our strategy has not yet been successful. but, as i said before, it is not only a strategy with regard to drugs; it is a hugely complex situation. we are in a post-conflict situation and, of course, all the different elements are there: nato, the european union and the un. we had these meetings in new york exactly on this matter. now let me come back to the drugs question. there are indeed problems on the demand and on the supply side. on the demand side, there is, at this moment, no demand for additional licit opium for medical purposes according to the international narcotics control board. and i hear that world demand is indeed fully met now, and turkey and india had to cut their production in 2005 and 2006. the stockpiles were so high that they would last worldwide for two years. that is one point. i understand your saying that maybe people in other parts of the world do not even have the possibility of having medical treatment without pain relief. i understand that. but this is something that you are taking out of context. these are the realities today. on the supply side, let us also look a little at the proportions. afghanistan is, as some colleagues have said, the country that produces the highest share of opium and drugs: 8 200 tonnes. if it were even allowed to produce legally, there would only be a possibility for a small amount and that would only be very small. so, even if there were a possibility, i think that would represent only five tonnes of opium production. now, comparing 8 200 tonnes to five tonnes: this is nothing! so you see, neither on the supply side nor on the demand side is there a real balance. therefore, apart from this very complex situation, i think your idea is courageous; i agree. but i think that, for afghanistan, it is maybe not useful at this stage. on the contrary, i think what we have to do as a strategy is to have a combination of sustaining afghanistan’s long-term development and offering farmers alternatives to poppy cultivation, combined with improved governance. so the focus will be on justice and police, as we will try to do and as we have started doing. we have also been at the forefront on the rural livelihood agenda and helping to support legitimate employment. to this end, the european commission is also supporting the afghan government’s national drug control strategy through supply-control and demand-reduction initiatives and the improvement of governance. for instance, we have been supporting the law and order trust fund, up to now with some eur 135 million, while a sum of eur 70 million is planned for the next two years. but i must also say, since we have been concentrating on rural development, on health care and on justice, and also helping on the police and justice reform, plus alternative production, as the european union and european commission, we cannot do everything alone in afghanistan. this i would like to say to the honourable member mr tannock, because i think he is addressing only us, the european commission and european union, but there are many other important actors there. i think we all have to get our act together. this is what we are trying to do more and more through a very coordinated strategy, which, on the one hand, is going to combat drugs. but, again, i think that, maybe, it is too early.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. that was an interesting debate. we are dealing with a very different subject now. let us see how we come to a conclusion sooner or later. there is a saying, which i believe is heard throughout europe, that money does not make you happy, but it does make you calm. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. but if you have to get money from someone else, if you owe someone money from a sale, from damages or similar, then there is often reason not to be reassured but to be worried, for example, that the debtor is evading his obligations, that he is letting money or assets disappear, possibly even later than tonight. all the member states have procedures to prevent this, interim procedures, injunctions, arrests, provisional seizures - whatever you call it. it's very different everywhere, it's very complicated, and there's the language problem. if one were to use the crossborder procedure of the member state, it would often be that - as we say in germany - the rabbit was over the hill, that is to say, the debtor had the opportunity to make his assets disappear. the problem is now virulent across europe's borders. it is all the more important as we all want a single area of payments, cashless payments. this means that the possibility of assets disappearing across the border is growing. that is why the commission - and i want to say this explicitly - has been quite right to take the initiative. it has presented a very good green paper, which is very comprehensive and contains many details, some of which will certainly have to be clarified. that is the point of the hearing. the european parliament cannot answer everything at this stage, and neither can i. i would therefore like to make a few points in a very brief way. first of all, although it is obvious, it is only a provisional attachment, a provisional guarantee, not a final satisfaction. and besides, this is just about money, bank accounts, not about injunctions, foreclosures of other assets. the question would have been whether the objective could be achieved by harmonizing the 27 different systems in existence. that is certainly not a good idea, it would have to wait until christmas eve. it interferes with so many other things that it wouldn't be good. the commission is also proposing an autonomous, additional european regulation, preferably in the form of a regulation, which should be introduced alongside the national regulations, which will remain in force. i would like to mention brussels 1 in addition. the regulation we have here is not enough. the creditor must summarily make his claim credible, he must also make the risk credible. what is particularly important to us - and to me - is the protection of the debtor. the fact that we have a european regulation is precisely why i do not want to see any damage to a debtor or a third party, which would also affect europe. in certain circumstances, an unjustified attachment may also be destructive. i would just like to mention the points that the creditor may be liable for damage caused to the debtor, that he may be given a deadline to initiate the main proceedings, that he may have to provide security, that the debtor must be able to object, that a procedure is not chosen for this, which then takes forever, but roughly corresponds to the procedure before, that there is no over-collateralisation, and that the debtor must also remain the subsistence minimum. there's the issue of trust accounts. if there is any possibility of seizure there - i want to leave it open - then it must be secured in a very special way. the same applies to community accounts although they are not the same, they are not directly related because third parties are also protected and special protection measures are required for third parties. i would remind you that standard forms would be useful for the communication of banks, and i would like to say in this context and in conclusion once again: there is certainly still a need for comparative legal studies, detailed studies. i would like to express my gratitude to the commission for these extensive studies and studies, and to all my colleagues. we all worked very well together. i assume that this will be decided by a broad consensus.
i am not going to go into detail. i now put to you, on the basis of a unanimous decision of the conference of presidents, the following, and i am addressing myself in particular to the council. in the course of its discussions on the commission proposal to amend the regulation on the financing of european political parties, the committee of permanent representatives decided yesterday to agree with the commission proposal and to adopt the necessary amendments to the financial regulation in a separate act, on the same legal basis as that applicable to amendments to the financial regulation. this would mean that essential aspects of this legislative procedure would be removed from the european parliament's codecision and that the commission would have to submit a new proposal against its own will, and that the court of auditors would have to be consulted. the european parliament calls on the council to reconsider this step. the amendments to the rules of procedure proposed by the commission are necessary to overcome the practical difficulties encountered in applying them. they would also allow the development of political foundations at european level, which make an important contribution to political publicity, to be further promoted. to this end, it is necessary that the proposed regulation enter into force rapidly. the committee on constitutional affairs adopted a report on 22 october expressing its willingness to compromise with the council in order to allow the rapid adoption of the proposed regulation. the division of the act by the permanent representatives is a rejection of these efforts. it is not legally necessary, it calls into question the commission's right of initiative, it shortens the powers of parliament and it creates the danger of significant delay. on behalf of the conference of presidents, i call on the council to correct the decision of the permanent representatives at ministerial level. the commission has asked for the floor, but there is no debate afterwards.
chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. i thank you very much for this statement, and i thank the conference of committee chairmen as well. it is a serious case that the european parliament - the house of commons at european level - is excluded from the legislative process in a regulation on european political parties. this is a matter that really concerns all of us here, no matter what party we are from. it is not possible for the bureaucracy in some finance ministries and then only the governments to decide on this issue and not the house of commons at european level. we shouldn't let that happen! i would say, with regard to the 2008 budget, that governments have wishes which they can only fulfil with us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thank you for your explanation. we'll get back to you on that.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, as this house will have understood from what you said, coreper decided to split the commission’s proposal into two legal instruments: one regulation under article 199, to which codecision applies, to cover political foundations and campaigning, and another regulation under article 279, which means simple consultation of parliament and the court of auditors to cover the financial derogations. the commission opposed that splitting of its proposal for sound legal reasons, but also for political reasons. the decision introduces uncertainty as regards timing, when we want the proposal to enter into force before the end of this year so that the foundations can be fully functional before 2009. that was the whole idea behind the proposal. we also think that the whole proposal should be approved by codecision, under article 199 of the treaty. we regret, therefore, that coreper decided, against the commission’s will, to reduce parliament’s role in an issue intimately related to parliament’s business, namely the financing of the political parties. just 36 hours after the committee on constitutional affairs approved by a very large majority the commission’s proposal, coreper decided to follow a route which departed from that of the commission and of parliament. however, our destination, i hope, remains the same: approval of the substance of our proposal before the end of this year. (applause)
i am not going to go into detail. i have one more announcement to make, and then we'll get to the budget. at its meeting this morning, thursday 25 october, the conference of presidents unanimously appointed the laureate of the sakharov prize. the conference of presidents has chosen salih mahmoud osman because of his commitment to the long-forgotten victims of darfur. (applause from the centre) this human rights lawyer, who is a member of the sudanese organisation against torture, has been defending for over twenty years the countless victims of the conflict in darfur who are arbitrarily detained, expelled, tortured or threatened with the death penalty. his current mandate as a member of the sudanese parliament allows him to take the cause he defends to the international stage, despite the sometimes high personal sacrifice. violence and arbitrariness are opposed to dialogue and justice. without democracy, there can be no justice. by awarding the sakharov prize to salih mahmoud osman, the european parliament wishes to support the work of this courageous man who has become the voice of darfur and, through him, the realisation of the rule of law in sudan. the award ceremony will take place in strasbourg on tuesday 11 december. i would also like to inform you that the conference of presidents was also unanimous in its view that we should consider a suitable form of honouring the murdered russian journalist anna politkovskaya, and ... (applause)... the manner in which this is done will be decided by the conference of presidents at its next meeting.
it is a great pleasure to welcome today a delegation of members of the majlis-i-oli, the parliament of the republic of tajikistan, who have taken their seats in the gallery of honour of this parliament. (applause from the centre) the members of the delegation came to strasbourg to hold talks with their european counterparts in the context of the third interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and the tajik parliament. the interparliamentary meeting will therefore be held here in strasbourg for the first time. mr makhkamboy azimovich makhmudov, who heads the delegation, is accompanied by mr nosir yusupovich salimov and mr gulkhoja gangibekov. i wish the delegation a pleasant and successful stay in the european union. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the voting time.
i am told that this is also the case, but mrs de keyser has again come forward.
the question of the reserve, mr virrankoski, remains. we do not need to vote on the first part, but we do need to vote on the second part, the reserve.
that wasn't part of the report. i just want to say that the language and actions of members of parliament should always be exemplary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to comment on this amendment. we have a negative point and i ask mr schöpflin and his colleagues to vote in favour of it because what is in the original text is wrong. the year 1992 is wrong. we would have kept it if we had not voted for the kacin amendment now. i am not saying that we should not vote for this amendment.
i am in charge of the sitting today and i always try to apply the rules of procedure in a way that is in accordance with the law.
thank you for looking through the text so carefully. of course, that will be corrected. before the vote on amendment no 4
member of the commission. mr president, the european private company statute has regularly been on the agenda of the european parliament and also, as you know, on that of its committee on legal affairs. various arguments presented during these debates have demonstrated that a statute for european private companies may bring benefits to small and medium-sized companies, and there has also been support for the idea of a stakeholder consultation. the commission recognises that the regulatory framework needs to be adapted to allow smes to make the most of increasingly integrated european markets. we need to make it easier and cheaper for small and medium-sized companies to conduct cross-border business. it is important to take action that will help those firms to fully reap the benefits of the single market. the growth of small and medium-sized businesses is crucial, as we all know, for the competitiveness of the european economy, and the commission can see that a european private company statute could facilitate the expansion of small businesses beyond national borders. therefore, by providing an option, it would create more choice for companies, without imposing any additional burdens. it could well reduce the compliance costs for firms that wish to operate in several member states. if this can be achieved, smes could have easier access to new markets. the commission is therefore aware of the importance of the european private company statute to the member states of the european union and to european businesses. i can assure you that my colleague, commissioner mccreevy, will proceed with a legislative proposal for a european private company statute, as he declared to the legal affairs committee on 3 october 2007. this proposal should be ready by mid-2008 at the latest. as you know, we are currently conducting further consultations on the exact form and content of the proposal, the results of which will then be incorporated into the impact assessment to be completed in the first months of next year. my colleague mr mccreevy will be very happy to have a continued dialogue with you once this proposal is on the table.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for your comments. we are now at the first point: european private society. i can say that we are very pleased that after long difficulties the commission has finally been convinced that this is a necessary bill, and we can now expect to get this bill. it is to the credit of parliament that this would not have been possible without considerable pressure from this house. but we want to evaluate the result very, very positively. i would like to come back to a second point, which is also mentioned in our resolution today, and on which we are not satisfied with the development. this is the 14th directive on the relocation of the registry court, the registry location. the european commission has been planning for many years to close this gap in company law. we have now learned that this has been more or less definitively removed from the legislative programme, at least from the european commission's point of view, and that this gap will therefore remain open. i would like to make it clear at this point that my group and - i think, in the light of the discussions in the legal affairs committee over the last few years - the legal affairs committee, in its overwhelming majority, and this house have always taken the view that this gap needs to be filled and that the 14th directive must come into force. but it is not about additional bureaucracy and obligations for companies. it is simply a matter of giving companies the freedom of movement and establishment that they have been promised in the treaty, everywhere in the european union. we have heard that one of the reasons why the european commission does not want to go ahead and make a proposal on this issue is that it believes that the existing rules on merger directives and other regulations are sufficient to ensure the mobility of companies. i can only say at this point that the fact that a company has to set up another company in another country, then merge with it, in order to be able to move in this way within the internal market, is not exactly an example of something that works by reducing bureaucracy or costs. it would be desirable if we had a reasonable secondary law which actually grants companies the possibilities which the internal market has in principle provided. one of the arguments put forward is that the european court of justice has already massively liberalised company law through its case law in the past. that is undeniably true. but what the european court of justice is doing here is only to help primary law to make a breakthrough, simply in view of the fact that the secondary law legislator - and that is parliament and the council, but we are dependent on the european commission - is not in a position to create a reasonable secondary law to ensure the internal market freedoms. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we ask the commission to reconsider the possibility of including the 14th directive, which is lying in the commission's drawers, in the legislative programme for the coming years. if this is not the case, parliament expressly reserves the right - and this resolution expressly reserves the right - to re-apply the article 192 instrument, where appropriate, to legislative own-initiative reports. and since we are talking so much about company law, let me say a few words about the commission's recent communication on the simplification of company law. this is not the direct subject of this resolution, but it is in a factual context. i think we in parliament agree that we do not support a substantial deterioration of the acquis communautaire in the context of simplification measures. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. what we can support are measures to relieve the burden on companies, to reduce bureaucratic and statistical burdens, to ensure that not every piece of information in the balance sheet, which may not be so important, is also published. i think there are opportunities here to work closely with the commission and to improve company law. what i have noticed in reading the commission's documents on this subject is that there are certain laws which we have adopted, such as the transparency directive, which, following sarbanes oxley, contains some provisions which today would be a good question to ask why they are not subject to a reasonable review in the light of simplification. i would be glad if the commission would also give some thought to this and thus contribute to the improvement of company law.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not we have to look at pakistan very differently. it's a big, important country with a complicated history. it has been artificially created as a state, as a home for the muslim inhabitants of india, so its identity is of course muslim and we cannot blame it for that now. that was the reason it was founded. that doesn't mean we're not fighting islamic extremism, but the pakistanis themselves are doing that to a significant degree. pakistan has been a key ally against the soviet occupation of afghanistan, against communist china, against soviet influence in india, which has been there for a long time. it was a major strategic factor for the west. on the other hand, of course, this country has internal difficulties that we have to see: a complex, heterogeneous population structure, ethnic and religious, a great deal of poverty and, of course, the need to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. in this way, we must of course give massive support to this country, strengthen free elections and an independent judiciary, encourage the military to gradually hand power over to elected politicians, and above all - as charles tannock said - continue the path of détente with neighbouring india. there are encouraging signs here, and to strengthen these signs and at the same time be critical, that is the task of a balanced pakistani policy.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the attack on which this resolution is based was an attack on a diplomatic solution in sudan. the context is relatively important because shortly after this attack desmond tutu was supposed to be conducting concrete negotiations on the ground. this attack was clearly deliberately timed to prevent a diplomatic solution, which is badly needed in this region. there has been speculation for some time as to which rebel group carried out the attack that left ten au soldiers dead. it appears that it is a pro-western rebel group that carried out this attack. it's very important that when we deal with the darfur issue, it's just that we don't always look at it completely with glasses, but it's that various rebel groups from sudan, chad, the central african republic and the respective armies are operating on the ground. it is interesting to me that the european union's attempt to act in this conflict, namely by intervening in chad, is in a basically pathetic state at the moment. at first, they said they were sending an eu force there. in fact, you send a french troop under the eu logo with a few extra soldiers. to this day, i have not been able to get any reasonable information about the actual area of operation of this troop. it is still the case that, although it is said, it is almost for the protection of refugees. however, the refugees are mainly in the border area, and it is obvious that the government of chad does not want the eu troops to be stationed there. perhaps the commissioner can help us with some information again. what is being done at the moment by the eu is not guaranteed to be what actually leads to a de-escalation of the whole situation. we must be very clear that what desmond tutu wanted, namely a diplomatic solution, is what should be supported from here.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the facts are known, there was an attack on the au peacekeeping force on september 30th. ten soldiers were killed, eight were seriously wounded, and forty are still missing. i was in darfur with a delegation from our parliament in july of this year. we also met with representatives of amis, the african union mission in sudan. it was and is an incredibly difficult mission, as amis officials told us. for example, a nigerian colonel, a commander, told us that he felt like a priest, not a soldier. he can only appeal that nothing bad should happen, he has no real mandate to act, and therefore it is not surprising that rebel groups have taken advantage of this weakness. the west is not looking at africa seriously enough, the balance between the tragedy in darfur and the degree of our attention is not balanced. the eu's military operations in africa are good, but there is a danger that africa will become a testing ground for such operations. if the eu is to operate there, it must have a robust mandate, adequate equipment and adequate personnel. the duration of the mission must also be made dependent on the objectives to be achieved. we must not hide behind others, but must live up to our commitments. this applies to the funding of amis, from logistical support and military goods to personnel. but above all we need the political will of all, and i believe that only together with china can we bring about peace in darfur and in the whole of sudan.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 25 october 2007.
i am not going to go into detail. we have learned with great concern of the tragic event in finland in which eight people - pupils and teachers - were killed. on your behalf, i would like to express our heartfelt condolences to the families and the finnish people. the groups have asked me to make a statement on the convention of 18 september 1997 on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and on their destruction (ottawa convention): in a few weeks' time, we will be celebrating the tenth anniversary of the signing of the convention on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and on their destruction. on 3 and 4 december 1997, 122 countries signed this historic treaty in ottawa. anti-personnel mines do not distinguish between civilian and military casualties. they are directed against people with the purpose of killing or maiming them. the ban on them by the ottawa convention is a victory for humanity. the agreement is also a success of the internationally networked civil society. in a process unprecedented in its kind, a coalition of ngos, together with committed governments and parliaments, managed to conclude an international treaty outside the usual diplomatic forums. the international campaign to ban landmines was awarded the nobel peace prize in 1997 for this achievement. the european parliament has supported the campaign against landmines from the outset. following the signing of the ottawa convention, the european parliament has been active in resolutions, hearings and opinions in favour of effective implementation. the successes of the international campaign are now evident. over three quarters of all states have ratified the ottawa convention. the use of antipersonnel mines has fallen dramatically, as has the number of countries producing land mines. despite this progress, landmines are still not completely eliminated in over 69 countries. it is clear that this objective cannot be achieved everywhere without additional financial resources. europe has made an important contribution to the implementation of the ottawa agreement in recent years. the european union has invested over one billion euros in the fight against landmines between 1997 and 2004. the european commission's anti-mines strategy is one of the most successful elements in the development of european external relations. this is not only an expression of our humanitarian commitments, but also a worthwhile investment in sustainable development and human security. the council of the european union is about to adopt a new joint action on landmines within the framework of the common foreign and security policy. we welcome the intention to work towards the universal ratification of the ottawa convention and an effective review conference in 2009. we look forward to working closely with the council and the commission in implementing the joint action. i hope that we will soon have the opportunity to discuss with the council and the commission their respective initiatives on landmines and mutual coordination. our common ultimate goal is a world without mines, and this requires a coherent common policy of the european union. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 8 november, in accordance with rules 130 and 131, has been distributed to you. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: tuesday: the liberal group requests that a statement by the council and the commission on the black sea shipwrecks be placed on the agenda for tuesday afternoon following the report by mr leinen and that the afternoon session be extended accordingly until 6.30 p.m. in this case, question time with the commission would not begin until 6.30 p.m. and would therefore be shortened by half an hour. who would like to state the reasons for this request? if there is no one for or against this motion, it is done. (the motion was withdrawn.) wednesday:the green group requests that a statement by the council and the commission on the situation in georgia be included and discussed in a joint debate with the report by mr obiols i germà and mr tannock, and that the afternoon part-session be extended to 6.30 p.m. and that question time be shortened by half an hour. they also requested that the debate on georgia be concluded by the tabling of motions for resolutions and that the vote on it be held in brussels in november. who would like to state the reasons for the motion?
that was the reason. who's in favor of the motion?
mr andria, i beg your indulgence. i have made a very clear call for those who wish to justify the request. there was no verbal communication. the people in charge of the leadership were not in the room at the time. i have looked very carefully and there has been no sound contribution whatsoever, neither to justify this nor to support this, and then the house agreed that nobody has to speak against it unless it is justified. we agreed on this above and with the plenary that this motion should be dropped and therefore not be on the agenda. that is why i ask that we now treat this as we have just decided.
i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. but if you think it necessary, we'd be happy to vote on it. the chairman of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe has now come forward.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry, but in the penultimate part of the debate, the german translation by our otherwise very competent interpreter said that mr söder was the european minister of bulgaria. but i do appreciate the fact that he is the bavarian minister for europe, and it shows how important it is that we get written oral protocols again and not just audio-visual recordings.
we'll take that under advisement. i give the floor to mr vasile dîncu. he 's not here ?
i understand that you have an interest in promoting ‘catch-the-eye’, so you have succeeded!
commissioner figeľ is here, so he must have taken note of all this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has recently celebrated the fourth anniversary of the imprisonment of michael khodorkovsky and platon lebedev, a heart patient and hepatitis sufferer. it is unacceptable that the two of them are being held in the siberian city of chita, in violation of russian law. for obvious reasons, the requests for early release, as permitted by russian law, were not granted despite good conduct. clearly a move to keep the opposition as small as possible before next year's election. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we also met with various other representatives of memorial, with gari kasprow and grigori jawlinski, who all confirmed that the yukos problem is a clearly political one. i therefore call on the eu to address human rights violations more strongly and clearly in its dialogue with russia. what matters is not revenge, but humanity and justice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's white paper and the excellent report by our colleague, mr pál schmitt, express both the educational function of sport and physical education in schools and the role of sport in terms of social integration and health promotion. this diversity must be more firmly anchored in the consciousness of society. in addition to the experience gained from the european year of education through sport and the programmes lifelong learning, youth and europe for citizens, it is now necessary to develop initiatives to respond to sport in various forms of physical activity in schools, clubs and associations, up to the spontaneous and completely non-coercive physical activity of our time. sport is now - in a very inactive age - much more important than it was for our parents and grandparents. in our age, when computer games are the favourite hobby of children, there is a growing need to promote active and healthy living among children and young people. unfortunately, there is also a lot of evidence that even the time available for physical education classes in many schools is often not in line with reality. this means that implementation may not always be in line with legal obligations. it seems necessary to examine the actual situation in many schools in this respect. i also support the rapporteur's call for the commission to draw up guidelines for the application of the rules on state aid to non-profit-making sports organisations - of course, only if the principle of subsidiarity is fully respected, in conjunction with the national and european sports federations. there must be clarity on what types of state support are acceptable and legitimate and what can be agreed between the two sides, possibly by increasing investment in physical education and in the financing, if necessary with european funds, of the modernisation and provision of schools under the structural funds.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are in a very difficult situation. in a very difficult situation because the events that have taken place in rome are only bringing to the surface something that we have not seen or did not want to see. the murder that took place there is a deeply reprehensible, heinous act. the reactions to this murder are worrying. the fact that a single offender committing a crime is embedded in his judgment into a large group of people who are, so to speak, taken into collective responsibility for what an individual has done is not new in human history, it has always been the case, but it is always equally reprehensible. and so the very first thing we have to do is differentiate. we have to look very closely. all this is true: the integration of the roma into our society has not been successful for a very long time. this is also due to the fact that there is very little commitment to integrating roma into our society. they are a difficult people with a very autonomous culture, and it takes a lot of effort to integrate them, but it can be done. which, by the way, is possible if you also respect their culture and acknowledge it. but it must also be made clear that the rule of law must be able to assert itself by all means available to it. and the rule of law must maintain public security and order by all means at its disposal. what's the best way to do that? the best way to do this is not to generalize, but to examine each case individually, and that is precisely what needs to be done in europe. we must examine in each individual case, in the context of freedom of movement, what rights a citizen of the union has acquired and on the basis of which rights he is to be treated when he moves from one country to another. we guarantee freedom of movement in the european union. all citizens of the european states - at least those belonging to the schengen area - enjoy this integral freedom of movement. that doesn't mean they can do whatever they want when they go from one state to another. they have to respect the rights there and the laws, but conversely the state which belongs to the schengen area also has to respect the right of the union citizen on its territory. and then you can't go and say, broadly speaking, this group is to blame, and they have to go out now because they don't have a work permit, or because they don't fit into our cultural concept, or because they're all unemployed, or because they're begging. no, then it must be examined in each individual case what rights a citizen has, just as it is examined in each individual case what rights he has violated. and that is precisely the task which the italian government is now undertaking, which the romanian government is undertaking and which the commission must also undertake. i must say to you, commissioner frattini, that you are not doing your job. i was very, very surprised to read your comments on the messaggero. i've always thought you were a moderate. you have earned the respect of my group because you have worked very sensibly in a sensitive area of politics. but your comments in the messaggero about the work permit, about the income structure of people - that you could go into a camp, ask someone what you live on, and if they can't immediately explain what they live on, you could deport them - that would be an arbitrary state! but we don't live in one. your task, mr frattini, is to defend the principles of the european union, and not to recommend yourself as a minister in a future italian government if necessary. (applause from the centre and from the left)
i have to say, madam president, i would not have asked for more time if the commissioner had not wanted to make himself a victim in his final speech. you have to live with the fact, commissioner, that you are in a european forum where you have a special obligation to be very careful about what you say. and what you said in that interview with the messenger is factually incorrect. no european authority has the right to go into any camp, ask someone the question 'what do you do for a living?' and then, if he cannot answer the question immediately, expel him. this is simply and profoundly wrong. that's what you said in the interview with the messenger. and if you are asked to do so, don't play the insulted liverwurst here!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the soil protection directive, the soil framework directive and the soil protection strategy are among the important topics of this plenary week, as they have been in the committees in recent weeks and months. in principle, a strategy - in this case, a ground - is dealt with before the directive in question, and for good reason. the advantage of the stepwise approach is usually that the interests involved are discussed in a transparent way in advance, so that the newly acquired aspects can be taken into account in the drafting of the directive. in view of the strong criticism of the commission's proposal for a framework directive on soils, a discussion of the subject beforehand would certainly have been helpful, also in order to calm the minds. unlike the normal nature of a framework directive, the commission proposal - and this is my view - provides for very rigid and detailed rules and requires the member states to carry out numerous checks and reports, which would entail a high level of administrative burden. this is not acceptable. the new member states already have well-functioning national soil protection legislation. for them, the commission's proposal means in part a complete reorganisation of their respective systems: double regulation and additional bureaucratic burdens to a considerable extent. this is why many member states are, as has been said, sceptical about this directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will continue to make proposals in the future. the main aim was to give the member states more room for manoeuvre while at the same time aiming to curb the steadily increasing soil degradation at european level. i hope that in the end we will be able to reach a reasonable conclusion with our friend mrs gutiérrez, also in view of the importance of the whole question of soil protection, which can become a model for the whole world, not only for europe. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur once again for having proposed a compromise solution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to express my particular gratitude to the rapporteur, mrs gutiérrez-cortines, who has spent a great deal of energy in the last few months trying to mediate between those who are in favour of a directive and those who are against it, and who has also laid the groundwork for a viable compromise. i am still in agreement with the members of this house who want to reject the commission's proposal. so that there is no misunderstanding, our soils are the basis of our existence. without healthy soil, there is no agriculture, no natural cycle and, in the long run, no life. we are obliged to protect our soils, wherever possible, from harmful influences and to keep them in good condition. but this directive is not the way to go about it. i think that the question here is not whether we want to protect our soils more or less or not, but at european level the question is whether we are responsible or not. i don't think we are. consequently, a number of member states have developed their own functioning soil protection laws, with more consideration and better solutions to the problems on the ground than would be possible under a centralised regulation from brussels. i therefore call for support for the amendments which maintain the scope for action of the member states. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals. there are amendments which seek to require detailed studies and reports simply because of the establishment of an industrial establishment. let me give you just one example, the construction of industrial gas plants. it's just normal air, a mixture of gases, separated into its constituents. it doesn't harm the soil at all. we should not concern ourselves with such things, but really only with matters where there is a reasonable suspicion of soil contamination. i think it is high time we also stopped making public reports on soil conditions. this is an infringement of freedom of contract. land sales are, and should remain, a private right for good reason. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will finally have a directive which actually guarantees the protection of soil and not, above all, increases the administrative burden.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are in favour of a clear 'yes' to eu-wide soil protection. we've heard that soil is our most important non-renewable resource. soil degradation costs the eu more than 38 billion euros a year. in germany, only 2% of the land is found in a state close to natural conditions. in the eu, 12% of the land is affected by erosion. soil degradation does not stop at national borders. so we are in the process of removing the ground from under our feet by this current use. the eu proposal was good, it was going in the right direction and we would have liked to have improved it. i know that the rapporteur has fought, but unfortunately the environment committee, under pressure from the conservatives and under pressure from the agricultural lobby, has watered down and degraded it in many, many places. i cannot understand why we agreed in the environment committee to keep the old charges secret. i hope we can fix that tomorrow. this is contrary to transparency, but it is also contrary to the aarhus convention. we also know that climate change and good soil quality go hand in hand, that soil is a major store of carbon dioxide, and it's losing more and more of that ability to bind co2. i am afraid that because of this watered-down approach in the environment committee, an ambitious soil protection directive is unfortunately not possible. but we need an effective soil protection system with a common timeframe and common criteria. so what we need are effective concrete targets to curb soil degradation in the european union. we must not give up on the basis of this so-called compromise, and we must not give up on the basis of this so-called compromise, and we must not give up on the basis of this so-called compromise, and we must not give up on the basis of this so-called compromise, and we must not give up on the basis of this so-called compromise, and we must not give up on the basis of this so-called compromise, and we must not give up on the basis of this so-called compromise. only with a real legal commitment will we be able to launch an ambitious land strategy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is right to say that soil is the key to longterm and sustainable production of food, feed and biomass. that's right. it is certainly also true that we cannot be satisfied with the state of the soil in the european union. that's right, too. but to conclude from this that we need a directive at european level is going in the wrong direction. why would you do that? we ignore the fact that there are already many regulations in the european union that affect the ground and through which we can influence. i would mention the fifg directive, the ivu directive, the water framework directive, the groundwater directive, the rules on cross compliance: we can make a financial contribution to improve this situation in individual countries. these are measures which already exist, and if we add the soil directive to them, this leads to a double regulation, to parallel legislation, which in fact only leads to a higher level of bureaucracy. if we want to cut bureaucracy by 25 per cent by 2010, then we are going to achieve the opposite. here we will achieve an increase of 25%. we have committed ourselves in the contract that the things that can be better regulated locally are to be regulated there. that is what we have to do and we have to speed up. the claim that this is the cause of climate change is unacceptable. there is no scientific dispute that deterioration is a consequence of change, not the cause of it. the rapporteur has certainly put a lot of effort into this. but if we find in it that rules which are achieved by other directives take precedence: that is not possible, there are no first and second order directives. if we want to achieve something, we stick to the method of open coordination, we transfer know-how from country to country. then we have the right approach, and then we will surely have a result. all we have here is red tape and confusing legislation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. where is the added value? what is the rationale for a european soil protection system? the commission's arguments for cross-border concern are rather artificial, at least from an ecological point of view. i also cannot accept the argument that the internal market is disturbed by different national legislation on soil protection. if the commission were serious about this, it would not now be presenting a framework directive which leaves the member states themselves with the greatest possible latitude in defining the objectives for soil protection. this is a matter of the law of the land, and it is not a matter of the law of the land. does this approach not reveal that the commission is uncertain about how to legislate subsidiarity in the case of localised land? in such a case, where we all want more soil protection but where national legislation differs, should we not first use the instrument of open coordination? i mean, yes! the framework directive is the second step before the first. we are missing an opportunity for states without legislation to learn from countries with good practices in soil protection. and we will see bureaucracy especially for states with already demanding legislation. why, despite exemplary legislation, do they have to examine their entire territory and define areas of risk? we do not need this bureaucracy or the gold-edged protection of the soil that europe is now demanding of us. finally, the argument that parliament itself called for this directive years ago. yeah, that was five years ago and more. but in the meantime we have had our experience with the ffh, the ivu, the water framework directive and much more. and unlike the commission, we are held accountable as european politicians on the ground. we therefore do not stick to five-year or ten-year plans when local businesses and administrations tell us: it is too much of a good thing. i acknowledge the rapporteur's efforts to relax the directive. but the best way to avoid bureaucracy is in the process of creation. we still have a chance of doing so by rejecting the directive. i hope that this will send a strong signal to the council that it cannot allow its nations to be caught up in this wave of bureaucracy.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, it is with great pleasure that i open today the debate on the proposal to include aviation in the community's greenhouse gas emission trading system, known as the its. i thank the rapporteur, mr liese, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the efforts they have made so far. i would also like to thank the other three committees for their participation and contribution to the debate. it is now widely accepted that climate change is happening now, as well as being caused by human activity. the measures we take over the next decade will determine whether we manage to bring the situation under control or allow climate change to reach dangerous levels and threaten the prosperity and stability of our societies. the european union has both the capacity and the means and the will to lead the global effort against climate change. this is the clear message that we will be sending in a few weeks to bali, where the future international framework on climate change will be discussed. the three institutions, the european parliament, the council and the commission, adopted positions in favour of setting ambitious and binding emission reduction targets. in order to achieve these objectives, all sectors - including international aviation - must assume their respective share of responsibility. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. in terms of tax treatment and value added tax, international aviation still enjoys privileges granted when it was still a small emerging economic sector after the second world war. and when the kyoto protocol was negotiated in the 1990s, aviation - along with shipping - was excluded from the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. only domestic flights are covered by these objectives. in the meantime, the industry has grown considerably and today aviation has become a cornerstone of globalisation because it brings people and economies closer together. the commission fully recognises the importance of aviation for international trade and economic development. on the other hand, the negative impact of aviation on the environment has been demonstrated and confirmed, with the dramatic increase in greenhouse gas emissions as a concrete example. today, the share of aviation in global greenhouse gas emissions is equivalent to the total emissions of the united kingdom or canada. in the european union, carbon dioxide emissions from aircraft are almost double the 1990 levels and are forecast to be 150% higher in 2012. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the member states. this is why the commission proposed in its communication of september 2005 a comprehensive approach to tackling the impact of aviation on climate change. our strategy builds on the existing community policies, but it strengthens and extends them. our current policies include research into new and cleaner technologies and further improvement of the air traffic management system in europe through the single european sky and clean sky programmes. but these measures alone are not enough. further action is needed and that is why in december 2006 the commission proposed to include aviation in the community emissions trading system, the proposal we are discussing here today. the commission's approach has two stages. in the first stage, from 2011, all flights within the european union will be covered by the mechanism. in the second stage, from the year 2012, all flights to and from european union airports will be covered. we are starting with domestic flights, which shows our willingness to take the lead in this effort internationally. at the same time, we are giving our international partners an incentive to join in the joint effort. at the last assembly of the international civil aviation organisation (icao) in september, we faced strong opposition from many third countries to our plans to include all aircraft, irrespective of nationality, in the trading system. the reasons vary from country to country, but it has become clear that developing countries in particular believe that we must start with our own before we apply the system to flights to and from their countries and to their airlines. that means we have to be more decisive. one of the main elements of the proposal is that it should apply to all airlines operating on the routes covered by the scheme, irrespective of their nationality, in order to avoid discrimination. the proposal is in line with the chicago convention and bilateral aviation agreements. this position was defended by all 42 european states at the icao assembly. europe has formally reserved this issue, which means that we retain our freedom of movement. as regards the level of ambition, the commission proposal calls for emissions to be stabilised at the average for the period 2004-06. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the airport is not a public airport, but a public airport, and that the airport is not a public airport. by the year 2020, we will save a total of 183 million tons of carbon dioxide per year, which is equivalent to twice austria's current annual greenhouse gas emissions from all sources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not excluded from the community's trading system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not left behind. in the period up to 2013, a proportion of aviation allowances to be auctioned in proportion to the auctioned share of other sectors. the remainder will be distributed free of charge on the basis of a benchmark that will reward high-performing airlines. from the year 2013, the share of allowances to be auctioned should be similar to that agreed in the general review of the its. finally, the same methodology as the harmonised benchmark will continue to be used for the allocation of the balance. the european union is now giving top priority to tackling climate change. the proposal under consideration concerns one of the fastest growing sources of greenhouse gas emissions. it therefore represents the union's determination in this matter. it seeks to address, by means of concrete measures, a difficult problem in a sector of the economy where effective policies have not so far been successfully developed. europe has a duty to play a leading role, but it must do so in a way that does not challenge its international partners. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission firmly believes that the proposal under discussion tonight is precisely the answer to this need.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. in the last few months, it has become clear to almost everyone that we must do something to prevent dramatic climate change. the reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) and the former chief economist of the world bank, sir nicholas stern, have made it clear that the costs of not acting are far greater than the costs of acting. stern has even said that if climate change continues unchecked, it could have the same negative economic impact as the two world wars. this example shows that this is not about trifles or green spin-offs, but about tangible economic interests and something that really concerns everyone. it was therefore logical that the summit of heads of state and government in march decided that the european union would reduce its emissions by at least 20% by 2020, and if we reach an international agreement - we want to do that - even by 30%. it is a paradox, of course, that a major sector of the economy is not reducing emissions at all, but is growing unabated. since 1990 - the commissioner has said this - emissions from air transport have doubled. it is therefore good that the commission has put forward a proposal to limit co2 emissions from aviation. but this proposal also has weaknesses, and i am sure that the european parliament will correct these weaknesses tomorrow by means of a large number of amendments. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to what i believe will be a good result tomorrow, above all the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteur on the transport committee, mr georg jarzembowski, who was involved in the hughes procedure, and all those involved in the other committees. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the council and the commission are able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. we've agreed that we want a single launch date. the commission has also proposed that the system be extended to cover intra-european and intercontinental flights departing from and landing in europe on the same day. this is necessary for reasons of competitive neutrality, but also because two thirds of co2 emissions come from intercontinental flights and not from intra-european flights. of course we have to talk to third countries, and that is why the environment committee decided in a motion that the commission should continue to negotiate with third countries. if we can then agree on common objectives and a common framework which will bring as much as the commission proposal, then we should also enter into negotiations with third countries. we agree - and this is the second point i want to make - that we want to auction a much larger proportion of the allowances. this is important for newcomers, but above all to mitigate the so-called windfall profits, which are very strong in the electricity sector. electricity prices have risen, even though the allowances were distributed free of charge. that is why a higher proportion must be auctioned, and the money - as the committee has decided - we want to give back to the citizens, among other things by reducing taxes and charges on environmentally friendly modes of transport. we also agree that the emission ceiling should be below 100%, because it is about reducing co2 and not just stabilising it. the environment committee has also decided that we will introduce a multiplier of two to take account of nitrogen oxide emissions. if the commission makes a proposal - and it is accepted - on how we can deal with nitrogen oxides differently, then the multiplier can be dropped, but we need it first. it is also very important that we get an efficiency clause, which is also what the environment committee has decided. the airlines' own objectives of efficiency must be met, and not just a 'free-for-all' of the aviation industry. in some areas, ladies and gentlemen, we shall see a fighting mood tomorrow. there are some points on which we do not all agree. and i say on behalf of my group - not as rapporteur - that the environment committee has overshot its target in some areas. we will not support the 75% cap, for example, and we want to make it easier for small and mediumsized enterprises. the epp-ed group will in any case vote in favour of the report, and i believe that as a whole we as a parliament are sending a clear signal to the council of ministers. we should not stop at formulating general objectives to combat climate change, but should also introduce concrete legislation. we shall be watching very closely to see whether the council of ministers will follow its words with deeds or fall back on its own objectives and perhaps even weaken the commission's proposal. we as the european parliament will not accept that. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are in agreement in the committees that the state should be the same for european airlines and for airlines from other countries flying into our territory, because we must take account of the competitiveness of our airlines. we have seen at the icao conference that the other countries are resisting. so there is no point in having a split schedule. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind. you, commissioner, rightly pointed out that the kyoto protocol excluded air transport. in this respect, 2012 is the right year, because it is then that you have the best chance of persuading third countries to join, perhaps. we have enough time for them to join our system or build an equivalent system. we cannot accept their pioneering role, nor that of the environment committee, which is going even further with the year 2010, because it completely ignores the global dimension of air transport, which is competition between airlines all over the world. we cannot damage our airports, our airlines and the workers in this sector. so the best time to accept it is now, 2011, but it has to be for all societies at the same time. we also need to strike a balance. we want to reduce the climate impact of aviation, but we also need to keep an eye on the competitiveness of our airlines, airports and air passengers - especially those from remote areas - and to make prices affordable for them. so we're arguing that we get a timely reference period, that we get a reasonable percentage of allocation of the allowances - the transport committee was for 110, but well, just under 100 would still be feasible - and a reasonable percentage for auctioning. we must not make air transport too expensive for our passengers in europe, in remote areas outside.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr peter liese, for his fair and constructive cooperation over the past few months. the inclusion of aviation in emissions trading is the first legislative procedure following the spring summit, where the heads of state or government agreed on ambitious targets. we in the european parliament have also put the issue at the top of the political agenda by setting up the standing committee on climate change. experts and climate scientists have given us the warning signals at the climate committee hearings that we need to start a trend reversal in co2 emissions in the next eight to 10 years. the emissions must not increase, but the greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced if we are to keep global warming below 2°c. the implementation date of 1 january 2010, which was voted on in the environment committee, is of key importance. we need 2010 as the launch date because we have no time to fight climate change and the climate change deadline is very long and getting longer as time goes on. as regards the commission's proposal to distinguish between intra-european and intercontinental flights, i must say that i am very pleased that - mr jarzembowski has raised this - we are in agreement here in parliament that we want a single date for introduction. in addition to the time component, the maximum number of pollution certificates to be issued is of great importance. we should be realistic and ambitious here. the cap on aviation emissions of 80% for the years 2004 to 2006 is a good and fair approach. this cap is necessary to ensure that the 87 per cent increase in aviation emissions between 1990 and 2004 does not undermine the reductions in other industries. in order to ensure that allowances are priced fairly and that the emissions trading scheme can therefore have its effect, the proportion of allowances to be auctioned needs to be significantly increased compared to the commission proposal. the spe group therefore proposes to increase the proportion of allowances to be auctioned to 25% of the total number of pollution allowances to be issued. as regards the revenue from the auctioning of allowances, member states should use it for climate change adaptation and climate change mitigation measures, both within and outside the european union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the emission of pollutants from road transport. tomorrow there will be a motion for a vote which will stipulate that only aircraft with a maximum take-off weight of more than 20 tonnes will be included. it cannot be in our interest that we should leave the business jets out of the emissions trading system and place the leisure aircraft fully within the emissions trading system. i wish we could take more action on climate change tomorrow, and i hope we can get it started tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to thank first of all the two rapporteurs on this subject, mr liese and mr jarzembowski, who have obviously not always had an easy time of it. in addition to investing in new technologies and developing infrastructure, emissions trading can make an important contribution to reducing co2 emissions from aviation. emissions trading must allow growth, not prevent it. it is intended to provide incentives for fleet renewal and more efficient, modern aircraft. the liberals are calling for the inclusion of all airlines on a single date from 2011. we believe that the emissions for the years 2004 to 2006 should serve as a basis. this is a reward for airlines that have rejuvenated and modernised their fleets in the past. my group proposes a coverage of 90%. this is ambitious, more ambitious than the commission's proposal, but it is not exaggerated. we believe that a maximum of 30% of the allowances should be auctioned to facilitate the entry of new operators. the profit from the auction should be used primarily by the aviation sector to reduce emissions. we are also in favour of raising the starting weight to 20 tonnes because we want to keep the bureaucratic hurdles for small operators as low as possible. i am in favour of including air transport in the most open and efficient trading system possible. the limitation of the use of credit does not make ecological sense. just as every gram of co2 emitted must be treated equally, so reducing emissions everywhere has the same effect. there are good economic reasons for unrestricted and flexible access to credits when emissions can be reduced elsewhere at lower cost. air transport is vital to economic growth in europe. globalisation is not possible without competitive airlines. people will want to fly more, not less, not just in europe, but especially in other parts of the world. we have to acknowledge that. the eu is taking a unilateral decision to include aviation in the emissions trading scheme, and is not just making friends internationally. if we europeans want to be leaders in climate policy, we must ask not only how far we can go, but also how we can bring others along. this question will be asked again in bali. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to move away from the eu's isolationist approach to climate policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the rapidly growing air traffic needs to be integrated into the its system as soon as possible. the aim is to reduce the anthropogenic greenhouse effect by using this transport mode. from the point of view of transport policy, our legislative work is now about adjusting the framework conditions properly. these framework conditions must be such that, through a reasonable price per tonne of co2, the potential savings incentives are triggered without drastically restricting flight operations. for example, the initial allocation of allowances to airlines must be designed in such a way that their shortage can realistically be compensated for on the market, otherwise flights will have to be cancelled, and i do not know how much of this we and our society can take. even if 100% of the certificates were issued at the time of entry into the system - and none of us is asking for this - an annual growth of 5% in air transport would require equally high co2 emission savings. that's not a small effort. the greatest reduction potential lies in the realisation of the single european sky, and therefore depends on the political will of the member states. the airlines are therefore left with the task of renewing their fleet, provided that the auctioned amounts allow sufficient capital to be made available. this is unlikely to be the case with regional airlines.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr peter liese, for his excellent report and my colleague mr jarzembowski. i believe that the overall compromise is very viable. politics is often about symbols, and so we are sending a clear message here: this is the first legislative initiative after the spring summit, and we are beginning to actively implement climate action. the seven key points of the report - the start of emissions trading, the reference period, the number of permits, the use of revenues, the exemptions for small aircraft and the method of calculations - are, in my view, adequately and reliably assessed in the compromises. i do not want to make exceptions, but i certainly think that a special regulation for the outermost regions in an addendum is necessary to ensure that these regions are not disadvantaged. i think the proposal is very good and that competition is sufficiently appreciated here. we should not forget that even if the auction is 100% - in theory, as we have just heard - it is 2 billion euros, a figure that is quite manageable for airlines and which will probably also be reflected in pricing. but i see no problem here with the large number of flights. i hope that the eu will continue to lead on climate protection and that we can get all the other major competitors and their airlines to join this agreement.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the comitology reform that was decided in july 2006 introduced a ‘regulatory procedure with scrutiny’, which gives a veto right to the european parliament on measures of general scope that amend a basic legal act adopted under codecision. in the framework of this reform, the three institutions concluded a joint statement in which they committed themselves to adapt 26 priority basic acts to this new procedure, and the commission adopted 26 priority alignment proposals at the end of last year. it is in our common interest to have these alignment instruments adopted as soon as possible. the commission is therefore very pleased to see that parliament is now ready to vote on several legislative resolutions, after having reached good and fair compromise solutions between the three institutions. other important dossiers will be on the agenda of another session of the european parliament later this month, and i am confident that we will be able to settle these dossiers as well. i want to thank the rapporteurs from the different committees for their very cooperative and constructive approach. consequently, the whole package of the 26 priority alignment proposals could be ready for adoption before the end of this year. this would be a very good result which will pave the way to the so-called ‘general alignment’. as you know, the commission made a commitment to review all existing codecision basic legal acts, in addition to these 26 priority acts, with a view to bringing them into line with the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the commission will respect this commitment and propose this general alignment of all non-priority acts. it concerns in total more or less 220 acts. this will take the form of four to five omnibus or package proposals, the first of which should arrive in the european parliament shortly in november. the next two omnibus proposals will follow within a couple of weeks and the final proposal just before the end of the year, or very early next year. a third aspect of revising parliament’s scrutiny rights is the revision of the agreement concluded in 2000 between the commission and parliament on comitology procedures. here i would like to thank parliament and, in particular, mr galeote and mr corbett for the excellent spirit of cooperation which prevailed throughout the negotiations. i would also like to thank them for recognising that the special procedures foreseen in the agreement will apply in all extremely urgent cases. i am pleased to announce that the results of these negotiations have been politically endorsed and that the commission will be ready to proceed to the formal adoption of the revised agreement, as soon as parliament formally endorses the outcome of the negotiations. i am confident that the agreement we reach will help our two institutions work more efficiently in the future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. we have been discussing the subject of comitology for some time now. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is certainly an important aspect of the extent to which we are legally adapting the directives. but the agreement between parliament, the commission and the council is about how parliament can be involved in a proper way. you have expressed your hope that parliament will make the necessary adjustments this year. it is important to us that parliament is informed in good time about the processes and that the exchange of information via the comitology committees with parliament is timely. the practical implementation phase is still to come, and practice will show how far parliament's rights are being strengthened or not. the same applies to emergencies. let's take an example: accounting is next on the agenda, ifrs 8. we have had the procedure here, but unfortunately we were informed of this by the commission only at short notice in the comitology procedure. then we were expected to make a decision relatively quickly. the decisive factor, apart from the formal adjustment process, will be whether the commission, the directorates-general concerned and the officials working on it are prepared to involve parliament in the work in good time. this is the only way to ensure effective control. it is a question of whether the commission as a whole has this will or not.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to warmly thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the excellent work they have carried out regarding the adoption of international financial reporting standard (ifrs) 8 – operating segments, the new standard on segment information. after the international accounting standards board (iasb) issued the standard in november 2006, a debate ensued concerning the suitability of ifrs in the european context. this debate was useful. we had to make sure that the european union would not adopt a new accounting standard just for the sake of convergence with the equivalent us standard, but mainly because it improves the quality of financial information and is conducive to the european public good. before reaching a final decision, the commission and parliament agreed in may 2007 that the commission’s services would carry out an analysis of the potential consequences of adopting ifrs 8. they ran a public consultation during july and august and gathered the views of stakeholders on the cost/benefit implications and the overall impact of adopting ifrs 8. on the basis of almost 200 contributions, my services have prepared a report which was provided to parliament on 10 september 2007. the report’s main conclusion is that the benefits of adoption of ifrs 8 would outweigh its costs. further, many constituents stressed that a swift endorsement of ifrs 8 would remove uncertainty about the treatment of financial statements for the period ending in december 2007. let me stress that we did not ignore the concerns that had been raised regarding the introduction of the so-called ‘management approach’, which gives management more leeway compared with the existing standard on segment reporting. some constituents were concerned that ifrs 8 lacks strict requirements on detailed geographical information because it allegedly does not require sufficient detail on a country-by-country basis. discussions with constituents revealed, however, that ifrs 8 is rather expected to improve this kind of disclosure. further, it seems that particular concerns in this area, in our view – and in the view of the majority of respondents to our consultation – cannot be resolved through a financial reporting standard on segment information. this could be better done through a further development of a framework regarding corporate social responsibility aspects. we agreed that ifrs 8 should not be adopted solely for the sake of convergence, yet we believe that it is crucial to see the issue also in the broader context of the european union adopting a set of standards which are truly global. a couple of years ago we all agreed that europe should not opt for its own set of standards but rather support and promote the development of a high quality and global set of standards like ifrs. we are working on improving the governance of the iasb. on 7 november the european commission, the us securities and exchange commission and the japanese financial services agency made a joint statement announcing their agreement to seek certain changes to strengthen the institutional framework of the international accounting standards committee (iasc) foundation. these changes are intended to strengthen the accountability of the foundation’s trustees, in particular by replacing the current self-appointment process for the appointment of the trustees with a process in which public authorities are responsible for the final approval of trustees. the joint statement also recognised the importance of further strengthening the iasb’s due process, including by carrying out impact assessments. this agreement provides a strong basis to address the concerns expressed by this parliament. it also reflects the issues identified by the commission’s two monitoring reports to ecofin concerning the iasb’s governance. we will work with the iasc foundation and the international partners to develop more detailed proposals in the coming months. we will, of course, maintain a close dialogue with the european parliament throughout this process. i am confident that the outcome of this process will ensure that standards respond to european needs and are easily acceptable and applicable by all stakeholders in the eu and also globally. let me conclude. the swift adoption of ifrs 8 is important for two reasons. it improves the quality of financial information and it provides certainty to all market participants. the discussions of the last months have demonstrated that a stronger involvement of the european parliament in the endorsement process is necessary. the commission will also continue to work with the iasb and the iasc foundation and with our international partners to ensure that the process of developing international accounting standards is fully accountable, transparent and meets the needs of european stakeholders.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. the ifrs 8 process is symptomatic of where we are today in the implementation, the endorsement process for ifrs in europe. i would like to say in advance, and very clearly, to those who may always accuse parliament of doing the opposite: the majority of the european parliament is for ifrs, is for a global standard and is for all of this going in a common right direction. we should also examine this process of ifrs in particular, whether it is right as it stands today, when the european parliament is presented with a standard by the commission at short notice, when the commission and industry are expected to implement it relatively quickly, when the pressure from industry is increasing and those responsible for justifying themselves to the citizens on the ground are not given a chance to form an opinion on this. the commission then set a corresponding stage, but we will have to speak bluntly about what has happened now. because what's happened now is that the implementation phase is being postponed. in order to prevent this from happening in the future, it is essential that legislative institutions such as the european parliament are informed in good time of the work being done. i welcome what was announced last week by the commission, with the ssi, with the japanese, with iosco. what was presented last week by the ifrs organisation, accordingly, is that 'giving oneself a governance' is a correct but long overdue step towards legitimation and governance, and we as the european parliament will be very careful to ensure that the democratic rules of the game are respected. this does not mean that we as a parliament have to be directly involved. but only if the process is right can we ensure that in future, in the further implementations, in each and every standard, and we will be asked in the future for each and every standard, we have an optimized process.
the next item is the debate on the commission's legislative and work programme for 2008.
president of the commission. mr president, the next 12 months will be of vital importance to europe for our future effectiveness, for our place in the world, for the confidence of our citizens in our ability to meet their expectations. we have every reason to be confident. the agreement on the treaty of lisbon was very welcome, but so too was the manner in which it was reached. there was a refusal to be distracted from the primary purpose of equipping the union with the tools it needs for the future. there was a real determination to get down to business. at the same time, our economic agenda has brought results in terms of growth and jobs, helping to offset the risks of added turbulence this year. we are tackling the big issues: from energy to migration, from employment to development aid, namely in africa, and in just a few weeks we have an opportunity to underline our global leadership on the fight against climate change in bali. in short, the european union is delivering. it was able to overcome the very difficult situation we faced in 2005. the twin-track strategy proposed by the commission in 2006 has paid off, focusing on concrete results for citizens, and at the same time investing in a solution for the institutional settlement. the union, i believe, is on track for 2008. we need to use this to best effect, implementing our commitments, taking forward key proposals already on the table, keeping up the momentum with new initiatives and, at the same time, keeping long-term challenges on our radar screen. in addition, of course we must respect and promote the process of ratification of the treaty and show citizens what the european union can offer in the run-up to the european parliamentary elections of 2009. i therefore welcome this opportunity to set out the commission’s contribution to a successful 2008 by presenting our legislative and work programme for 2008. in doing so, i would like to thank the european parliament for its active involvement in the work of developing this programme. in particular the comprehensive summary report prepared by the conference of committee chairmen and endorsed by the conference of presidents helped to shape our programme. many commission proposals are a direct match to the priorities set out in your summary report. but first allow me a quick word on the implementation of the 2007 programme. this time last year we discussed a targeted list of strategic initiatives for delivery this year. to cite just a few of the most visible initiatives, this has meant a series of key actions like the strategic energy review, the recent proposals on labour migration, flexicurity, the wine market, market access. by the end of next month, all the strategic initiatives will have been adopted, with just one exception. this is the emissions trading directive, which i have decided to put back one month to january. the reason for this was to ensure no distraction from the crucial talks in bali – where i want the european union to appear united. it will also give us the time to finalise the consultations needed on how to realise the european union’s agreed targets on greenhouse gas and renewables. i am sure that you will agree that this makes sense and in fact that it can represent time that we gain because the preparation will allow, i am sure, a better possibility of a consensus with our member states. in addition to the strategic initiatives, we undertook to deliver a large number of priority initiatives over an 18-month period. many of these are now coming forward. the coming weeks will see proposals on mortgage credit, trade defence instruments and reducing co2 emissions from cars. we should see a delivery rate of 70 % by year end and at, or close to, 100% by the end of the 18 months, next june. 2007 is also proving a crucial year in preparing for the future. in particular, next week we will launch a set of key proposals for the union’s economic and social future. the single market review will gear up the single market as a strong, innovative and competitive market, bringing direct benefits to consumers and entrepreneurs and positioning europe to shape globalisation to best effect. alongside this, we will adopt a vision on how to promote opportunities, access and solidarity in the europe of the 21st century, to be backed up next year with a full communication on a modernised social agenda. we will be paying particular attention to how we will be able to use the treaty of lisbon and its protocols to move forward on services of general interest, using these new opportunities to see how we can bring real added value to ensuring the role of these services in improving the quality of life of all europeans. i very much look forward to the reactions of the european parliament and the council to the internal market review and the social vision. i believe that, taken together, they give us the balance needed to move ahead in key areas of our economic and social agenda. they show that europe has the right tools and offers the right platform for our citizens to adapt to and to shape globalisation. let me now focus on the commission legislative and work programme for 2008. this is our political programme for 2008. it sets out our main initiatives and builds on our commitment to provide added value to europe’s citizens. we have sought to strengthen both the policy content and the process. as for 2007, the work programme for 2008 concentrates on a limited number of new policy initiatives, including 26 strategic initiatives grouped together in 12 packages, which the commission commits to deliver during the year, and 61 priority initiatives, grouped together in 49 packages, to be delivered over a 12-month to 18-month period. we will centre our initiatives in five areas, which are of direct relevance to everyone in europe: growth and jobs, sustainable europe, managing migration, putting the citizens first and europe as a world partner. we are also determined to strengthen our commitment to better regulation with a guarantee to deliver what we promise. we have noted with particular satisfaction that the european parliament’s summary report agrees with the key areas of central importance we identify for 2008. close cooperation among institutions and member states will be essential to realise our goals. for several of the areas mentioned in your report, concrete initiatives are either already adopted or planned to be adopted still in 2007. for next year, i am pleased to be able to note the inclusion in the programme of a number of initiatives highlighted as of particular interest to the european parliament. just to list some of the key areas: the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, which we agree remains central to our goals of a more prosperous, environmentally responsible and socially inclusive european union; climate change, with this year’s stress on mitigation, complemented by a new approach on adaptation; greening of the transport sector; a small business act for smes (in fact it is a package of measures for smes); legislation to strengthen consumer protection regarding contractual rights and a new consumer scoreboard; better access to justice for citizens; improving the regulatory environment in europe with a strategic review of better regulation. on the bulk of our agenda there is a large degree of agreement between the commission and parliament on the need to act and on the way forward. it is true that there are some suggestions in the summary report where we cannot give a definitive answer at this stage. for example, we are working actively on intellectual property and financial services, but feel that it is premature to fix now the form and level of ambition for specific initiatives. on waste management, we would accommodate the issues you have raised through the action plan on better implementation of waste legislation, rather than a new initiative at this stage. let me make one point clear: what is not included in the list of new initiatives is not being neglected. the commission’s essential work of implementing community law, of executing programmes, and of negotiating international agreements, will continue and is made more visible in other parts of the programme’s text. also a new chapter on ‘shaping new policies’ seeks to reflect the multiannual nature of most of the activities of the commission. we have also inserted in the work programme the communication priorities, but have added a novelty in this respect: we propose a number of those priorities to the other institutions so that we can work together to promote them. but this is not about centralisation – quite the contrary. we believe that a common understanding of priorities offers the springboard for ‘going local’, adapting communication to best fit different needs in different parts of the union. we also believe that in this communication area partnership is crucial if we really want to connect europe to its citizens. the commission looks forward to a lively and fruitful debate reflecting the strategic dimension of the commission’s work programme and a strong political message to our citizens. the year 2008 is indeed a crucial year for europe. together the european commission and the european parliament can build on our excellent work together in 2007, can make the difference and can make, i am sure, 2008 a great year for europe. (applause)
mr president, i would also like to extend a warm welcome to the many members of the commission who have come.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. mr president of the commission, i should like to begin by saying that, following your admonition last year about the presence of members of the house, there are now more members of parliament than commissioners in the chamber, and i assume you will note this with satisfaction. secondly, on behalf of the epp group, i would encourage you to use the most important competence of your commission, the right to make legislative proposals for europe, in the coming year, the decisive year for the ratification of a new treaty, in such a way that you effectively tackle the problems that are burning at the seams of the citizens and use your opportunities to make the ground for the european union clear again among the citizens. we support your general approach to the programme and also the priorities you have chosen - from the growth and jobs aspect, the success of which is crucial for us to underpin social cohesion in europe, to the many details, such as migration and research. the commission will be examining the individual questions. we welcome the fact that you have indeed taken up some of the suggestions from the structured dialogue with the committees. we could imagine intensifying this dialogue even further. we would also like to see your planning not just cover the first few months of 2009, but perhaps a two-year cycle that can be extended year after year. what we lack is an indicative timetable, and we also see a gap between your programme and the budgetary procedure which would have to be closed sensibly. they bring together 79 legislative initiatives and a similar number of non-legislative initiatives. if you look at this from the point of view of the announced reduction in bureaucracy, i am not sure that you are serving that purpose. the legislative acts which you announce to be repealed are in particular those which have been abolished by the passage of time. so here too, the reduction of bureaucracy is being exposed as a sunday talk rather than a truly effective objective. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you have the opportunity - and i am sure it will come into force - to take this treaty into account in your actions. it introduces essential new elements: capacity for action, transparency and democracy. and it brings to our attention a very important element which i would like to recommend to you, and that is the principle of subsidiarity. a new debate on subsidiarity is beginning in europe, and the partners in this debate are above all you, mr president, and your commission. there has been considerable excitement in parts of germany a few days ago about fruit or apple wine. i do not want to go on quoting the public record, but mr president, what kind of spirit must prevail in an administration which, coldly and insensitively, simply erases centuries-old regional traditions with a bureaucratic stroke of the pen? there is a problem with this approach, and it is your problem, mr president. it is a problem of your commission. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. this is the commission's chance, the great chance, to win back more support from the citizens, and we in the epp-ed group would like to give you a very strong encouragement. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the epp-ed group has a very clear objective for the coming year in the field of the internal market and consumer protection. we want to see the completion of the internal market by removing the barriers and obstacles that still exist. we therefore welcome your proposal, mr kyprianou, for a directive on health services, based on article 95 and covering the health sector very broadly. we also welcome the fact that mr mccreevy and his directorate-general are working on further posts in the area of public procurement in the wake of the services directive. secondly, we want to see a comparable standard of consumer protection in all the member states of the european union, and, mrs kuneva, we expressly welcome the review you have presented, the revision of all the european union rules in this area. we are also pleased that we can carry out this revision in two directives, one in a horizontal instrument and the other in a revision directive which is to apply to all other areas. thirdly, we want to help to bring about clearer, simpler and therefore less regulation in the european union. and i come to you, mr. verheugen; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the toy directive will come, the construction product directive will come, and the tractors and defence products will also have one or the other. we hope that we can take concrete steps in this direction. we are also very much looking forward to the consumer labelling study you will be conducting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in my view, the most important points of this work programme are: the health check, or health control in the common agricultural policy, is undoubtedly a key theme for 2008. the 2003 cap reform should be reviewed and simplified, and this is agreed by all. i hope, therefore, as rapporteur, that the key suggestions which we as parliament will put forward in this own-initiative report will also be taken into account in the subsequent legislative proposal. this health check must help pave the way for a common agricultural policy beyond 2013. another project is the planned green paper on quality policy for agricultural products. quality must be given even greater prominence in agriculture. this is also true for agricultural imports from third countries, which must meet the same standards as eu producers. i am particularly fond of an initiative to promote fruit in schools. we have been working towards this for some time now as the epp group and we are pleased that the commission is taking up this idea. other important issues for 2008, such as the milk package, the 2008-2009 budget review, the action plan for the animal health strategy and the revision of the support for disadvantaged areas, will certainly not cause parliamentary boredom.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i would like to point out - and this is also the case for the 2008 programme - that we have made great progress in the field of internal policy in recent months, and i commend our commissioner, mr frattini, for this. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. but we must not be satisfied with that. it's about the practical work of tomorrow. in practical terms, we are particularly concerned about making a major step forward with sis ii. we in the epp group are very concerned that after the great successes of the enlargement of the schengen area, we are now beginning to tire and many member states are falling back into a state of rest. we can't afford to do that. we need sis ii as the main task for next year. in the legislative field, i would like to mention once again the question of border security. we are concerned here with considering whether in future the evaluation of the protection of the external borders will no longer be carried out by the evaluation team of the schengen member states but will be carried out where it belongs, namely by the frontex agency, which should actually be responsible for this. i ask the commission to be courageous and to define a european added value when it comes to the proposals on migration. if a proposal for a blue card for highly qualified people is put forward, it must not only be a proposal which accepts national regulations and provides a common label, but it must be a genuine european proposal. the same is true of the fight against terrorism. if a passenger data system is to be set up, it must not be 27 individual regulations, which can be made today, but it must be a genuine european proposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the house, from the budgetary control point of view, the commission's 2008 legislative and work programme is a disappointment because the main issues and problems of budgetary control are not mentioned in this programme at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall not make any progress on the declaration of assurance, although the member states are under considerable pressure from the commission. you have our support here, and we miss you doing that. the result will be that you will fall behind your own announcements, announcements which the president of the commission has also personally committed himself to for this commission. he has promised to move forward on the road to a positive declaration of reliability. we are at least as far from it as we have been in all the years before. we've known that since last night. we are therefore lacking the seriousness of the implementation of the announcements. this is also true of the commission's own legislative programme. be a world champion in execution, not in planning. of the 200 codifications announced for 2007, 23 have actually been submitted to parliament so far, and of the 43 new versions announced, 6 are already in place. the question arises, why are we even concerned with this programme if you are not going to implement it? so i think you should do better for 2008.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make three comments from the epp-ed group in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament. firstly, we very much welcome the fact that the european commission has included a proposal for european private enterprise in the legislative programme for next year. this has been a long-standing wish of this house and we therefore welcome it very much. it is regrettable that the commission was forced to do so, as it were, by using the legal instrument of article 192 and only presenting a legislative owninitiative report, although this problem has been known to the commission for a long time and has also been mentioned repeatedly in a whole series of company law programmes since commissioner bolkestein. secondly, we very much regret that the commission has this year reversed the 14th directive on the relocation of the register. this is indeed a major problem. we expect the commission to reconsider the inclusion of this in future legislative programmes. if this is not the case, i would also like to announce that we will again use the article 192 instrument and force the commission to put forward a proposal to that effect. the commissioner's idea that mergers must be carried out in another country before they can be carried out is bureaucratic and absurd. that is not a solution we think is acceptable. we would also like the commission to consider, at least with a view to the next parliamentary term, making progress in the area of copyright and perhaps commissioning a green paper on this.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not europe as a partner of the world is a very nice title for the commission's programme, but it is not about europe, it is about the european union, and the title is already an arrogance, because europe is much bigger than the european union. the eu wants to be a partner of the world, and the commission's programme is very frank: eu interests should be demonstrated, promoted and protected in foreign policy, that is, they should be enforced. and how is that to be done? more and more military! the eu is now also a military actor in the world, officially helping people, but in fact eu interests or the interests of eu member states are also being enforced militarily, for example in the congo. the eu military intervention there has led to the election of an eu-friendly autocrat, joseph kabila, and the exile of his opponent. above all, a brutal war is taking place in the eastern congo. 350,000 people are fleeing in eastern congo. the eu's military action in chad is mainly in support of the military dictator deby, france's old friend in chad. the eu's military operations are a continuation of the neo-colonial policies of eu member states. it's obviously difficult to criticize political friends outright. this is what we are seeing in pakistan right now. the reform treaty, which allows for a clearly militarized eu policy, is an essential prerequisite for this. we are now seeing what is possible next in kosovo. in this context, the commission has also taken the view that the eu should be able to take action to combat terrorism. i call on the commission to reject this clearly on its part and not to accept unilateral recognition of kosovo.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not in short, it is a question of rules of procedure. amended by the new statute from 2009, it strengthens the right of initiative of individual members, creates more transparency, gives a clear definition of which documents can be consulted, and the language issue is i mean solved intelligently, so that even the minor languages are not disadvantaged. since we haven't discussed it, i think it's important that you be informed. thank you for your attention.
mr president of the french republic, mr nicolas sarkozy, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is pleased to welcome you today to its solemn plenary session in strasbourg. your visit is a great honor for our institution. i can assure you that your speech is one of the most awaited in this house, as is shown by the presence of many of my parliamentary colleagues here. during the presidential campaign and the day after your election on 6 may, you repeatedly and firmly reaffirmed that the construction of europe was one of your priorities and that it would therefore be the french government's.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. as early as 1849, the famous french author victor hugo spoke in favor of a union of european states. indeed, in the following hundred years, we can attribute to french initiatives significant impulses and advances in the history of european unification: not least the origin of our european union today with the plan presented in 1950 by robert schuman, who worked closely with jean monnet. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. it was all the more painful that the french people rejected in a referendum the draft constitutional treaty which contained answers so important for the future of the european union. but even before your election, mr president, you made it clear that as president of your country you would do everything possible to return france to the centre of european politics. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. mr president, allow me to conclude by saying this: right after your election as president of france, you invited me to be your first non-french guest at the elysée. i would like to thank you once again today on behalf of the european parliament for this invitation, because you have thus not only indicated your european conviction but also your appreciation - and this is the decisive factor - for the european parliament as the representative of the peoples of the european union. (applause from the centre) mr president, on 2 july, a few weeks after your election, you said to the citizens of strasbourg here in strasbourg - and i quote the president - 'i want france to assume its responsibilities and i also want all europeans to be aware of their own responsibilities towards history. i want to initiate debates, i want to ask questions, i want to address all the problems. mr president, we look forward to hearing your speech. i would ask you to address the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
president of the french republic. mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me to speak before you in this place where the democratic heart of europe beats. i thank you for giving me the opportunity to do so now, at a time when europe, after having seemed to be wavering, is getting back on its feet and moving forward. i thank you for allowing me to renew france's commitment to europe and to tell you that the french people's 'no' to the european constitution was not an expression of a rejection of europe but an expression of a greater demand for it. (applause) i would like to thank from the outset, the construction of europe has been driven by hope. the peoples are now waiting, and it is the responsibility of each of us, for europe to live up to that expectation. a hope for peace, a hope for brotherhood, a hope for progress. this hope was born of the great tragedies of the 20th century. this hope was born of the blood and tears shed by millions of men, women and children. this hope was born of immense suffering. it is the hope that the peoples of europe will never again wage war against each other, that we will never again see on european soil the enterprises of conquest, domination and extermination which have brought our nations to the brink of material and moral annihilation. the european idea was born because one day great europeans reached out across the borders for which so many men had died, and the people who had suffered too much followed them in deciding that hatred was over and friendship was now necessary. the european construction became possible because our peoples, horrified by what they had done, because our peoples no longer wanted to fight, knowing in their hearts that a new war would be fatal, our peoples chose to love each other, to understand each other, to work together to forge a common destiny. the european construction must be seen for what it is: a moral, a political and a spiritual requirement. the construction of europe is the expression of the common will of the peoples of europe who recognize their common values, who recognize their common civilization and who want these values and this civilization to continue to live. europe cannot be just a machine. europe cannot be an administrative machine. europe cannot be a legal machine, a machine for drawing up standards, regulations, directives, a machine for procedures and rules. europe cannot be kept away from life, from feelings, from human passions. europe is a reality and has a chance of existence only if it is alive, speaks to the hearts of millions of women and men of all faiths, and is the hope for a better life and a better world. europe will be a great ideal, or europe will be no more. when the peoples say "no", we should not think that the peoples are wrong, we should ask why the peoples said "no". we all know - and i voted 'yes' - that the french 'no' and the dutch 'no' expressed, alas, much more than the rejection of a text, however important it may have been. we all know that this refusal was the most visible sign of a deep crisis of confidence which it is useless to deny and which must be addressed. all those who love europe must take seriously this 'no' from two founding peoples, two peoples who have always chosen europe. the 'no' was accompanied by anxiety: millions of men and women had begun to despair of europe. why would you do that? because they felt that europe was no longer protecting them enough. because they felt that europe had become indifferent to the difficulties of their lives. whether that feeling is unfair is another matter. i am sure that millions of women and men in all countries share this sentiment. that "no" was disastrous. it has plunged europe into the worst crisis in its history. but this crisis which could destroy europe could also be good for it if it led all those who were unwaveringly committed to its cause to reflect on the reasons for such a crisis. since the creation of the european coal and steel community, europe has achieved a great deal. we are all here representatives of peoples who have hated each other, who have sought to destroy each other, who, for some, have fought each other for centuries. at the beginning, there was paul-henri spaak, the great european, president of the first european parliamentary assembly, who uttered these universal and eternal words: 'we must not forget anything, because it would be a desecration, but we have decided to attempt the great adventure which, if successful, must enable us to save what is most precious and most beautiful in common.' for half a century, this great adventure continued despite countless difficulties. parliamentary assemblies played a decisive role. i would like to pay tribute to all those who took part in it, because they represented the citizens of europe in all their diversity. i am convinced that we should not be afraid of this diversity. we must respect this diversity as our greatest asset. democracy is about debate. it's the plurality of views. it's the opposite of a system where everyone is forced to think the same. europe will be destroyed if we only unite around a single idea, and if those who think differently are treated as bad europeans. there is no such thing as a bad european. there is europe, and we must bring everyone into this europe. i believe in trade, i believe in discussion. that is why i have always preferred majority rule to unanimity rule. and that's no small commitment on the part of a french president. unanimity is the system that allows a few to impose their law on all the others. unanimity is the certainty that we will never decide anything big, bold, and that we will not take any risks, because with unanimity we are aligning ourselves with those who want europe the least. unanimity is impotence. unanimity is the impossibility of action. it is the impossibility of going back on what has been decided and that is why i supported the extension of the majority rule in the simplified treaty. i believe in democracy. i believe that europe must be as democratic as possible. that is why i have always considered that the european cause is not served by refusing to debate, by stifling criticism, by silencing disagreements. i am convinced that europe must have more debate, more democracy and, in fact, more politics. europe was able to break out of the deadlock because at the brussels summit the heads of state and government, aware that they had the fate of europe in their hands, took a political decision. on that day in brussels, the political will of the various heads of state and government swept away all the obstacles that had seemed insurmountable. what was politics? it was to acknowledge the failure of the draft constitution. the policy was to propose to the french who had voted 'no' to negotiate a simplified treaty to unblock europe and to have this choice ratified by parliament, as i had said during the presidential campaign. i have been authorized by the french people to have the simplified treaty ratified by the parliament. (applause) i would like to thank i would add that it seems strange to say that the european parliament is the seat of the democratic heart of europe, and at the same time to challenge a parliamentary ratification in france on the grounds that it would not be democratic, because if europe is democratic in the european parliament, france is democratic in the french parliament! (applause) i would like to thank the policy was - and i want to pay tribute to them - for the countries that had ratified, and for the parliamentarians among you who had supported the draft constitution, to agree to reopen negotiations on another less ambitious project. we were able to unblock europe because the countries that had voted 'no' made an effort. i want to pay tribute to those of you who believed in the constitution for agreeing to discuss another bill. europe has emerged from the crisis because there has been a movement of double goodwill. the simplified treaty is a political victory for europe over itself. it is a victory for european consciousness which is expressed in politics. now - and i take responsibility - it would be a mistake to think that with the simplified treaty europe has solved everything, that we can sleep well and that no more questions arise. the simplified treaty solves the institutional crisis, but the simplified treaty does not solve the political or moral crisis of europe. it allows europe to decide and act. but it does not say for what purpose or with what purposes. it does not say what the europe of tomorrow will be or how it will contribute to improving the lives of its citizens. it gives no reason for those who have lost faith in europe to have confidence in it again. the institutional question is settled. the political questions now remain to be settled. we must ask them without fear and discuss them without taboos. europe has chosen democracy and in a democracy we must be able to debate everything: budgetary policy, trade policy, monetary policy, industrial policy, fiscal policy, all policies, whatever they may be, or else we need not say that we want a democratic europe. europe has chosen democracy and in a democracy no independence can be confused with total irresponsibility. no one can use the independence of his status to avoid being held to account, to explain himself, to be controlled. in a democracy, political responsibility is a universal, essential, inescapable principle. in european democracy, it is necessary to be able to discuss the aims and objectives of europe. i have proposed that a committee of wise men be set up to think about the future and that we can all debate together the different possible futures of europe, because there are different paths, and i wonder how we can choose the right one if we absolutely refuse to debate it. in european democracy, it is necessary to be able to debate european identity and national identities. we must be able to discuss how europe builds its identity and, excuse me, defends it. we must be able to discuss how europe protects national identities, which are a wealth of europe. we must not be afraid of identities. trying to preserve your identity is not a disease. it is when identities feel threatened, when they feel attacked that they tighten up and that's when they become dangerous, because they are aggressive. the peoples of europe are going through an extremely deep identity crisis. it is a crisis both in the nations and in the idea of civilization that all europeans have in common and that is the true unity of europe. it is a crisis linked to globalisation and the commodification of the world. starting europe with the economy, with coal and steel, with trade, was a stroke of genius by the founding fathers. but politics has lagged behind the economy, and culture even more so. it is a mistake to have forgotten the europe of culture. (applause) i would like to thank in a world threatened with uniformity, in a world dominated by technology, where commercial values tend to prevail over all others, europe can only be europe in the eyes of all men if it defends values, values of civilization, spiritual values, if it gathers all its forces to defend cultural diversity. but what are we going to defend, in terms of diversity, if we have not preserved our identities? europe must ensure that it is not seen as a threat to identities, but as a protection, as a means of making them live. in the moral sphere, too, human rights are part of the european identity. everywhere in the world, whenever a human being is oppressed, a man is persecuted, a child is martyred, a people is enslaved, europe must stand by them. because the europe of human rights is true to itself. and it is up to europe to take the issue of human rights to all parts of the world. (applause) i would like to thank i would add that all those who have had the experience of renouncing the defence of human rights in favour of contracts have not had the contracts and have lost in the field of values. (applause) i would like to thank in european democracy the word protection must not be banned. if we do not want the people, exasperated by unfair competition and dumping, to call for protectionism and closure, we must have the courage to debate what a genuine community preference should be. we need to be able to do as much to protect ourselves as others do. we must be able to provide ourselves with the same means of action as everyone else. if other regions of the world have the right to defend themselves against dumping, why should europe suffer? if all countries have exchange rate policies, why not europe? if other nations can reserve a share of their public procurement to their smes, why not europe? if other nations are implementing industrial policies, why not europe? if other nations defend their farmers, why should europe not defend its own? (applause) i would like to thank europe does not want protectionism, but europe must demand reciprocity. europe does not want protectionism, but europe has a duty to ensure its energy independence and food independence. europe wants to be a leader in the fight against global warming, but europe cannot accept unfair competition from countries that do not impose any environmental constraints on their companies. (applause) i would like to thank europe is committed to competition. but europe cannot be the only country in the world to make it a religion. this is why the brussels summit decided that competition was a means to europe, not an end. europe has chosen the market economy and capitalism. but this choice does not imply absolute laissez-faire and the drift of a financial capitalism which favors speculators and rentiers rather than entrepreneurs and workers. (applause) i would like to thank european capitalism has always been an entrepreneurial capitalism, a capitalism of production rather than a capitalism of speculation and rents. yes, i say, europe has a role to play in the necessary moralization of financial capitalism, and what has happened with the subprime crisis - some speculators blame global competition - europe cannot accept. (applause) i would like to thank we have different ideas and views on all these subjects. that's no reason not to talk about it. we must debate this until we have managed to bring our views sufficiently close together to be able to build a common policy. all these issues will be at the heart of the priorities of the french presidency. there will be other topics: the re-founding of the common agricultural policy, the question of ecological taxation, the question of renewable energy and energy saving, the question of defence. how can europe be independent and have political influence in the world, how can europe be a factor of peace and balance if it is not itself capable of ensuring its security? what does our commitment to europe mean for each of us if we are not able to debate the construction of a european defence and the renewal of the atlantic alliance? what does our european commitment mean if each of us is not capable of making an effort to defend all? from the ecsc treaty to the simplified treaty, the peoples of europe have forged a solidarity. it is manifested in regional policy, but it must be expressed in defence. it must be expressed in a european immigration policy. in a europe where there is free movement between member states, this policy can only be a common immigration policy. you cannot belong to the schengen area and regularize without informing others, because regularization in one country has an impact on all other countries in the schengen area. (applause) i would like to thank when i was elected president of the republic, i made it my priority to put france back at the heart of european integration. i wanted france to overcome its doubts by becoming more involved in europe. i am well aware that france will not be able to win the decision on all subjects, but i want france to regain its full place in europe. i have resumed dialogue with the community institutions and i would like to thank president barroso for the relationship of trust that he has helped to establish between france and the european commission. france's policy is now to work closely and in full confidence with the european institutions, the european parliament and the european commission. i will do my utmost to ensure that everyone recognizes himself in this vision, that england ratifies the simplified treaty, because europe needs england, ... (applause)... all my efforts to engage strongly in dialogue with the countries of the east, which sometimes had a justified feeling that they were not being listened to enough. the fact that history has condemned some of the peoples of europe to join europe later does not mean that they have fewer rights. they have the same rights as the founding countries. that is the european spirit. (applause) i would like to thank i did this by proposing the union for the mediterranean, without excluding anyone, by continuing the work done in barcelona. but if the work done in barcelona was enough, it would be known. so we need a new ambition. i wanted france to be able to lead the dynamism of europe again, because when france is doing well, all of europe can benefit. no one in europe has an interest in a weakened france, unable to find the sources of growth. no one in europe has an interest in a france in decline, a france that doubts itself or a france that fears the future. i have embarked on a policy of reform. it is not in europe's interest that these reforms fail, because it is thanks to these reforms that france will clean up its public finances and that france will respect its commitments. these reforms, the french have approved them. i told them everything before the election. that is why i will carry out these reforms. nothing will distract me from my objective and this is the best service that france can render to europe. ladies and gentlemen, in this city of strasbourg, so dear to the hearts of the french and now inseparably linked, in the minds of all europeans, to your assembly, to your parliament, which knows how to bring the democratic debate to life so well, here, in this tribune where it has spoken so many times, i have a thought for simone veil, who in 1979 was the first president of the first european parliamentary assembly elected by direct universal suffrage. i would like to pay tribute to her for her contribution to the cause of europe and to the cause of women. it has fought for their rights and dignity to be respected, and your parliament has always been committed to this line of action. simone veil said: "despite our differences in sensibilities, we share the same desire to achieve a community based on a common heritage and a shared respect for fundamental human values. in this spirit, i ask you to join in the work that lies ahead of us. i make those words mine. these words are challenges. these are the challenges that our citizens expect europe to meet. we don't have time to waste. europe has lost so much in the last ten years. we have no more time to lose in restoring the people's confidence in europe. you can count on france's unwavering commitment to europe. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
mr president, i thank you for those sincere and profoundly european words. you have once again demonstrated your european conviction and your commitment, as well as that of the french, to europe. we look forward with confidence to the french presidency of the union, which will take place at a key moment for the future of the european union, when the european countries will ratify the reform treaty. i am convinced that it will be marked by great progress towards a europe of peace and solidarity. the european parliament, as the representative of the citizens of the european union, stands by you in this endeavour and wishes to cooperate closely with you to ensure the success of this presidency in the interests of the citizens of europe. mr president, the european parliament wishes you every success for france and for the unification of our european continent. i thank you, mr president nicolas sarkozy. (the sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that the inclusion of aviation in the emissions system is a step forward in the kyoto protocol, and that is right. but i would remind you of what mr sarkozy said just now. he said that europe must demand reciprocity. and that's not what's happening here, or not enough. emissions trading may not start before 2012. exceptions for small aircraft should be similar to those for cars up to 20 tonnes in order to avoid disproportion. a jumbo jet is not a cessna! many of the points in the report by the committee on the environment are simply too broad and leave no room for manoeuvre and no time for implementation for the european economy. there is a huge discrepancy here. i refer again to the french president: we must think again very carefully about how we are going to organise this emissions trading.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report's intention to include european aviation in the emissions trading scheme raises a number of questions. there is no doubt, however, that we have a very basic understanding of the fact that this system is not very successful in terms of emissions trading. and although the european commission has found that it is not successful, we are now including air transport, which i criticise and which also led me not to vote for this report. we are doing this in the context of an island solution, involving european air traffic, and this is precisely the point which ultimately threatens the competitiveness of european airlines and, in addition to airlines, the competitiveness of european airports. i think that this is unacceptable and we must do everything we can to find global solutions which involve other airlines and other airports. this is the only way to solve the problem of the environment and of competition in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i myself represent lower bavaria, a border region with the czech republic, in the european parliament. when i was younger, when i'm younger now, it was really the end of the world in that room. today, as i look out at the stands, where we have many young people, we must remember that this is a historic day when these borders are finally being removed and we are united in europe. so, yes, cause for joy! i can honestly say, as a political representative, that many people did not believe that it would work so well for our eastern european friends to implement sis one for all in such a way. congratulations on that and respect! thank you to carlos coelho! the fact that we as the european parliament play such a major role here when it comes to schengen is due to our rapporteur. i would also like to emphasize this point. but politics must always think about tomorrow, about what is coming to us. i would remind you that frontex chief ilkka laitinen pointed out at the last igc that migration flows are already changing today, moving away from the southern border across the mediterranean to the eastern border. we must prepare for this today. we must also tackle the problems raised in the evaluation reports. that is why the evaluation clause in the parliament's decision is so important. we need sis ii, and i ask you, mr vice-president of the commission, to press on so that the member states do not sit back and say that we have succeeded, but that they fight for sis ii with the same commitment to implementation. if we have open borders for citizens, then we have open borders for criminals, and if we have open borders for criminals, then we need open borders for our police officers. that is why we must not relax our position on the prüm treaty, but we must also cooperate more closely on this. fifthly, we need to strengthen frontex. i would like frontex to be responsible for the evaluation of external border standards in the future. in december we celebrate, and i hope that in the end there is no hangover, but that in the end there is still the joy of celebrating.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the enlargement of the schengen area to include nine new member states is a historic step. it completes the enlargement of the european union and brings down the battlegrounds where once the iron curtain separated our peoples. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we can calm those voices. the last evaluation showed that the new states are implementing the schengen acquis to everyone's satisfaction. and let's face it: border controls and the traffic jams that go with them have always made a limited contribution to the security of our countries. the only way to combat truly transnational and organised crime effectively is through the close cooperation of our police and security services. it is a task for the future to improve, and all are invited to do so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would therefore like to welcome the people of our neighbouring countries to our common area of free movement. but people in germany, austria, italy, france and spain will also benefit from the newfound freedom - whether they are on holiday or visiting friends. europe will come a little closer together on 21 december. this is good for the people, this is good for europe. but once again, thank you very much to carlos coelho, our president of the council and commissioner frattini.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. migration is one of the priorities of the european union. the euromed region is a region of strategic importance for us in this respect. the euromed ministerial conference on migration will be the first of its kind to focus exclusively on the issue and to involve the euromed partners. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. it is equally regrettable that the asylum aspect has been excluded from the euromed ministerial conference, especially in view of the desperate situation of refugees in large parts of the southern and eastern mediterranean countries due to the lack of adequate protection laws. none of these countries, as we all know, have asylum laws. few people recognize the united nations high commissioner for refugees. libya, syria, lebanon and jordan have not ratified the geneva convention for the protection of refugees. it is also regrettable that the member countries of the barcelona process, while referring to the rights of migrants, are silent when it comes to the rights of illegal migrants. the fact is, however, that even illegal immigrants have rights. when it comes to, for example, the eligibility of salaries, access to education for children or basic health care, especially for female migrants, these protective provisions apply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is not the commission's intention to do so.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the new lisbon treaty is the guiding principle of parliamentary democracy at eu level. parliamentary democracy requires parties. we need parties to unite the interests of society and to present individuals as candidates to the citizens at elections, as well as to present a programme. we have parties in all our 27 member states that are running in national elections, and now it is necessary to enable such european parties to carry out their democratic work at european level as well. we want the citizens to find before the european elections active, mobilizing political families who will tell the people where the journey is going. we want the citizens to be able to choose the europe in which they want to live and to have a real choice. the first regulation on the statute for european political parties, which we made in 2004, was a complete success. there are now ten political families registered, and this shows the breadth of the political spectrum in the european union. and now this revision of the regulation is about making this democratic infrastructure more flexible and also extending it. in most countries we have political foundations in addition to political parties. they are platforms for deeper analysis of developments in our societies, and also platforms for debates beyond party membership. this has proved to be the case in many lands. the foundations are doing a good job. and that is why it is all the more necessary to create the opportunity, also at european level, for us to meet across national borders, to have this debate, this discourse on europe, and i am glad that the council also agrees to make this instrument possible in addition to the parties. ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of a political party does not follow the budget year, but it follows political events, and therefore parties must be treated differently from other associations and associations. that is the purpose of this new regulation: to bring flexibility to financial management. we want three things here: on the one hand, we want to be able to spend three months more than the budget year to respond to political events, and we want the parties not to have to spend all their money at the end of the year, but to be able to build up reserves from their own funds, donations and membership fees for political highlights, and of course, especially for the european elections. in order to help smaller political families in particular, but also to help european foundations get on their feet, we need a different distribution of external and own resources, and so here it is proposed to set the own share at 15% and the grant share at 85%. ladies and gentlemen, the council has decided to split the legal base. we thought that wasn't necessary. it is also a loss of transparency, because the citizen now has to look in two places where the basis for this new regulation is. but i also say that we do not want to prolong this dispute over legal issues. this would only prolong the procedure and divert attention from the real objective of this regulation. in the interests of european parties and their preparation for the 2009 european elections, we should concentrate on the content and get it under way this year. i am therefore very pleased to hear that the contents of this regulation have been accepted. i also believe that we must do everything we can now to bring this important piece of legislation under the portuguese presidency to fruition and to provide a legal basis for the foundations and for the financial year 2008 the basis for more flexible financial management. the council also needs to make a transitional provision, which we already had in our decision at the afco. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for taking the initiative on behalf of the commission. i thank the portuguese presidency for its real commitment to this matter, and mr leitão, with whom i have worked a lot, but also the two committees cobu and cocobu, mrs guy-quint and mrs mathieu, who have put valuable suggestions for more transparency and more control of this allocation in their reports. so, things are going well. i hope we can do it this year.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mr leinen. he did everything very well. i will support this report fully with my group and we also agree with the amendments. it is this report that makes the political parties at european level and the new instrument of political foundations effective means of increasing european citizen participation and democratic legitimacy. it is important, especially after the two referendums in france and the netherlands, to regain the confidence of the citizens, also with the help of the political parties and the foundations. it is also true that funding rules must adapt to the rapidly changing needs of political parties. of course, transparency must be ensured. the european parliament will therefore provide information on its website on the amounts paid to political parties and foundations for each financial year. it is also a good innovation that the role of the european parties in the context of the elections to the european parliament is finally being recognised. only if european parties can also take part in the parliamentary election campaign will they become actors in the european political public and contribute to the development of a european consciousness and help to reduce the democratic deficit. another important element is the support given to political foundations, which can complement the work of political parties by their work in the field of information and education. these foundations can in particular deepen education, increase knowledge of the european union and reduce the distance between citizens and the european union. i 'm sure of it . the foundations can promote the active participation of citizens in european life and they can also play an important role in the training of young political leaders. the council's legal cabal is a bit convoluted, but as helmut kohl has always said, what comes out of the back is what counts. that is why i am in favour of the report and i thank all those involved for their commitment.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, following the council's declarations that there is a great deal of agreement on the content of this regulation, i shall propose on thursday, before the vote on this point, to postpone the vote so that we can reach agreement on a first reading later this year, probably at the december partsession.
member of the commission. i want to thank the honourable member for this proposal. in fact, we tried this at the end of 2006, during the finnish presidency of the european union. there was a serious diplomatic effort to unblock economic and trade relations in and around cyprus, which culminated in some meetings in helsinki, which, however, did not lead to results. therefore, i think the lesson we have to learn is that we have to aim for a comprehensive settlement, and we need the united nations to provide its good services. from our point of view, the sooner the better and, at the latest, after the presidential elections, so that the year 2008 should be the year of serious negotiations and results concerning a comprehensive settlement for the reunification of cyprus.
member of the commission. i think that in fact this question was partly directed to mr cappato. it is clear that the european commission does not refer to any sort of government concerning the northern part of cyprus, but at the same time, of course, there are two communities on the island. there is the greek cypriot community and there is the turkish cypriot community. we encourage, and we expect, that the leaders of the two communities will continue their efforts in order to resume negotiations for a comprehensive settlement under the auspices of the united nations.
member of the commission. the european union is preparing to assume a greater role in post-status kosovo. ongoing status negotiations notwithstanding, significant preparations are being made for the future international civilian office and an esdp mission of rule of law for kosovo. the commission is financing csfp joint actions establishing planning teams in pristina. these teams have developed the blueprints for the future missions on the basis of the ahtisaari plan. however, the final shape of the future international missions will depend on the exact outcome of status negotiations. the commission has worked in close cooperation with the two teams in order to ensure a coherent overall eu presence in a post-status kosovo. i would also like to use this opportunity to thank the european parliament for its excellent cooperation in facilitating the financing of these very important missions. the commission fully supports the work of the international troika which is currently leading the negotiations and there is the deadline of 10 december for the troika activities as confirmed by the contact group ministerial in new york in september. at this point in time it is too early to speculate when exactly kosovo’s status will be resolved but it is clear that prolonging the agony will not serve anybody’s purpose. on our behalf, we are ready to turn every stone and even more in order to achieve a negotiated solution which would be best for everybody. we ask that from both sides and from our partners in the international community, while at the same time, of course, we are preparing ourselves for better or worse scenarios as regards kosovo’s status.
thank you for your good answer, commissioner. two points: firstly, you know that this house, with a majority of 75%, has voted for internationally controlled independence on the basis of the ahtisaari plan and against partition plans and against a return to belgrade rule. i would like to know whether the commission shares this view. secondly, i was in belgrade last week, as you were, and as you said, the longer the decision-making process takes, the more destabilising the impact will be on serbia. serbia too needs a quick decision to be able to make its way into a european future.
member of the commission. i agree that there is a need for further action in the first place by croatia. just to illustrate the challenges: the technical negotiations form the superstructure of the negotiations on the acquis communautaire, while the reforms on the ground form the substructure – the foundation – of the negotiations. in many areas, for croatia or for turkey or for any other future candidate country, it is clear that, in order to meet certain opening benchmarks for technical negotiations, we have to first make progress on the reforms on the ground. the concrete example that i have in mind is shipbuilding and steel. we will be able to recommend opening a chapter on competition policy and state aid, which is one of the core chapters of eu legislation, once we see that croatia has convincingly started to implement and achieved results in the structural reforms related to the shipbuilding and steel sectors. therefore it is, in the first place, in the hands of the croatian government and parliament to make progress on these reforms and thus facilitate progress in the technical negotiations.
member of the commission. i think that using common sense, which is also allowed for a commissioner, your question makes plenty of sense. at the same time, slovenia has, after substantial efforts, achieved a situation where it will be part of the schengen arrangement for the free movement of people and it is a fact of life that slovenia is a member of the european union. croatia will be a member of the european union in a few years and, therefore, for this period up to the time when croatia is able to join the schengen arrangement, as a member of the european union, we will have the arrangement to which the honourable member referred. but, of course, in the medium to long term, we should have a situation where all the countries of the western balkans will be part of the european union and, one day, also part of the schengen arrangement for the free movement of people. that is very important for the europeanisation of civil society in the western balkans in the longer term.
commissioner, i think that the sanader government and the chief negotiator, mr drobnjak, are doing a first-class job, but there are two problems. i hear from the slovak side, for example, that conditions are being imposed on croatia which have not been imposed in this form on slovakia, for example. the second question relates to this: what about the commission's processing capacity? i hear that there's a lot of stuff left over because there's not enough processing capacity for the croatian files. is that right? - yes.
on behalf of the pse group. – as you know, the european union is currently defending airbus in a case before the wto brought by the united states on behalf of boeing. i believe it is important at this stage of the dispute for this body to build support for the european union’s position and against that of the united states. i should state at the outset that this entire dispute arose because boeing no longer wished to participate in a mutually-agreed international agreement between the united states and the european union – an agreement that allowed certain forms of government support to both airbus and boeing, the only two producers of large civil aircraft in the world. as my colleagues know, such agreements are the best foundation upon which relations among nations are based. it is incumbent on nations to abide by their obligations under these treaties. airbus has. the european union has. unfortunately, the united states has not. airbus and the european union have constantly abided by the spirit and intent of the 1992 bilateral aircraft agreement. for 11 years, competition between airbus and boeing flourished, resulting in important breakthroughs in commercial aviation technology and design that have led to safer, more efficient and more environmentally-sensitive air travel. but boeing decided it no longer wanted to abide by the obligations of this agreement. instead, with the assistance of the united states, they attacked airbus for exacting so-called ‘illegal subsidies’ – the very government assistance that boeing had originally agreed to in the 1992 agreement. as many of my colleagues are aware, airbus’s government loan funding is a targeted and non-trade-distorting use of a government’s limited research resources. it offers governments a fair return and brings to the market innovative products, which benefit everyone. simply stated, european government research and development funding is limited, repayable and has no impact on boeing’s ability to compete. meanwhile, because boeing produces both civil and military aircraft for the united states, technology used in its commercial aircraft today benefits greatly from us government awards to boeing military research and development contracts. for example, boeing’s current knowledge about composites, which is being used extensively in its new 787 dreamliner, stems – by its own admission – from its work on developing the v-22, the f-22, the b-2 and the joint strike fighter. this federal assistance is supplanted by us state and local government support to boeing in the form of tax breaks, favourable real estate and local infrastructure improvements intended to secure the company’s presence and job base in selected us cities. while boeing opposes the airbus repayable assistance programme, it has no problem with identical programmes benefiting boeing in japan. i highlight these points not to imply that the assistance received by boeing (repayable in japan but not in the us) is somehow worse than the repayable european loans received by airbus. i mention this assistance that boeing receives to illustrate the reality that both sides benefit from some form of government assistance, from nations wishing to retain their global leadership roles in aviation. while boeing has benefited from government support, it seeks to deny europe similar benefits. i believe we should urge the commission to direct airbus and boeing to develop a forward-looking arrangement that provides a stable environment for both sides to compete and develop state-of-the-art aircraft well into the future. maybe a six-month moratorium on the wto case would allow the two companies time to complete a new discipline. this is the opportunity that is now before us. we can dwell on the past or look forward to the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the wto airbus-boeing dispute, to many observers, now sounds like a never-ending story. i'm glad you showed us at least a light at the end of the tunnel. i think that in order to assess the current situation and to give policy makers a recommendation on how to proceed, it is worthwhile to look at the conflict again in parallel with the economic development of the two aircraft giants. the current trend is mainly due to the exorbitant growth in international air traffic and the strong competition between airlines since the early 1990s. the commission was to be commended for what it had achieved. the creation of the common aviation market in the 1990s and the europeanisation of overseas agreements would have prevented competition and, consequently, the success of european airlines. but competition was fierce, and some airlines were left behind. the demand for increasingly economical, safer, larger, faster and more modern aircraft reached a peak in the early 1990s, leaving only two airlines with the capacity to do so: airbus and boeing. the only real alternatives are regional and business flights. i am proud that airbus has managed to return as a european company. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. in this context alone, the developed economies have a huge interest in having efficient air transport options. the aviation industry had to see this, but they didn't follow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the projects. with the dualism of aircraft manufacturers focused on airbus and boeing, competition between the two grew. the price war between airbus and boeing has been and is still fierce, especially in times of weak demand in the world economy. to prevent this conflict from turning into a competition for most of the state's money, a landmark agreement was agreed early on in 1992. in 2004, when boeing was in its weakest phase, the us broke with that agreement and called the wto. the eu did not hesitate and acted on the same grounds. boeing also brought the case to the wto. the wto rules are very simple, we know them, they have been discussed here. i think both sides need to get back to the negotiating table. both sides must acknowledge that their aviation industries need aid. this is particularly true if we are to meet the challenges ahead of us in terms of co2 reduction, noise reduction and the growth of air transport. we are moving into new technical territory here, and the risks for investors are immense. i would like to warn the representatives of the eu against using the airbus power phase which has now started up again as an opportunity to put boeing and the americans to the test too much. we had to make a very different speech here less than a year ago. that is why both sides need a reliable concept. years of fighting and hiding won't advance our technology sites. but it is precisely this progress that is needed. the key word co2 has already been used. it is not a question of letting the united states put us in a bear's cage in terms of covert military support and subsequent cross-subsidisation. let's get the american people to play their cards right. i am sure that we can find a solution by mutual agreement.
the commission has already done so. airbus is a european success story and a model of european cooperation. airbus provides jobs at six european sites and employs a total of 58 000 people. in my city alone, hamburg, there are 12,000 people employed by airbus. airbus has proven in the past that with the right strategy, eu industry can win in the most competitive markets for high technology. in the dispute between boeing and airbus, the two companies are accusing each other of billions in subsidies and have taken their case to the wto in 2004. this may have a negative impact on transatlantic economic relations. i'm warning you about that. it is nevertheless of the utmost importance that the eu makes clear that the financial support to airbus was in line with wto rules. both sides have expressed their willingness to reach a solution outside the wto and to agree bilaterally. the aim of us politicians should be to avoid a subsidy competition in the aircraft industry. the economic performance of the two companies must not be jeopardised and financial support should be focused primarily on research. the environmental and social aspects as well as employment policy must be increasingly integrated. it is important for the competitiveness of european industry that airbus remains competitive. we in the european parliament must stand up for fair competition. the commission should follow suit. we all want the eu to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. the economic and employment policies and a technically oriented, innovative policy play an extremely important role in this european objective.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by expressing my regret that this report is being discussed at such an unfavourable time for public perception. i have five comments in total. the second is that we need decisions on infringement procedures from the commission. the commissioner, it is not enough to produce a document in which one wants to document one's determination, as the translation said just before, but it is necessary that improvement should be made here. you must bring about decisions in infringement proceedings, which you also communicate, where appropriate, with the resulting court decisions or orders. thirdly, the council is becoming more political. the extension of majority voting means that the council, as co-legislator, is responsible for its own laws and thus for their enforcement as a whole. we therefore wish to stress once again that we would very much like the council to participate much more closely in the committee on petitions' deliberations, for example by appointing a high-level representative. and fifthly, we do not want to criticise others, but we want to say with this report that we, the european parliament, can do better. you can read that in paragraphs 25 and 26. we need a better procedure in the european parliament. we need the right human resources, we need the right timing, we need to improve the working procedures in the european parliament, we need a more transparent procedure for citizens' awareness, and we need a better procedure for early de-listing of unimportant and inadmissible petitions and for dealing with the permissible and important petitions. parliament has taken a major step forward in this respect by setting up a committee of inquiry. we're on our way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the excellent report by mr vakalis is a seamless addition to the three reports on natural disasters adopted by parliament last year and is an important addition, since these previous reports did not deal with earthquakes. however, we know that many countries and regions - and particularly in southern europe and the mediterranean - are at high risk of earthquakes. i therefore agree with the rapporteur who calls on the european commission to issue a communication to assess the risks of earthquakes and to propose the necessary measures to counter and follow them, similar to those for flood disasters. the question of financing is of course fundamental. and so it is incomprehensible to me, as rapporteur for the solidarity fund, that the council has continued to delay, indeed put on hold, the adjustment of the solidarity fund which we have adopted. this needs to be changed without delay to ensure that this solidarity and financing instrument is available in the future to deal with damage caused by natural disasters, including earthquakes, in an efficient, flexible and rapid manner. the lack of flexibility, particularly in terms of timing and funding arrangements, has in the past shown that the needs of earthquake victims have been virtually ignored. it must be borne in mind - as my predecessor has already said - that this solidarity fund, which is still in force, has been used only once for earthquake damage. these are natural disasters, just as floods, forest fires and storms are. however, other forms of financing beyond direct aid should also be used for support, such as regional government subsidies or loans from the european investment bank. it is only in this way that we can ensure that there is an adequate means of dealing with the earthquake phenomenon. the report makes a good contribution to this.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, very quickly, i would first like to thank you for the very strong consensus which supports mr cornillet's report and the commission's positions. the answer to forgotten crises is precisely a better division of labour. obviously, if you don't have a division of labor and humanitarian aid or development is based on political expediency, a country's foreign policy, you're going to have, of course, forgotten crises and orphaned countries. the division of labour is therefore the only answer. the idea of a humanitarian atlas, for example, like the development atlas which is progressing very well and is already being implemented, is obviously a good solution. i also agree - several speakers have said this - to emphasise the very important role of local actors and the involvement of civil society. as for the question about cerf: i agree with you a thousand percent. i have said it again and again to the un, to ocha, to everyone, and you know my position on this. echo will not contribute to cerf unless there is additional money. echo spends all its resources on humanitarian interventions each year and if echo intervention is needed, it should be additional. secondly, echo is a european cerf. i'd still like to call him back. then there's no reason. echo is just as flexible - i dream of having the same flexibility in development - and even more flexible than cerf. thirdly, i would like the un to focus on its core business in relation to this humanitarian issue which is essentially - that's the role of ocha - the coordination of humanitarian aid. there's also important work to be done. mr hutchinson has asked a very fundamental question. it is actually a question of qualifying, labelling to some extent - even if the word is dangerous - ngos and civil society actors. i agree with him, of course we cannot put the blame on ngos because of one or the other association. by the way, the commission has never contributed, financed or used the ark of zoé as an operator, and it is important that i tell you this so that there is no misunderstanding on the subject. that said, the question you ask reminds me - i have already had the opportunity to speak about this - of a question that we should perhaps discuss among ourselves and with ngos, namely the creation of a high authority of ngos and civil society actors, which would be made up exclusively of representatives of ngos and civil society. it is therefore not foreseen - i have seen how bernard kouchner has reacted to this proposal - that the public authorities will be represented within this high authority. it could be modelled somewhat on what are called medical or professional orders, for example, which themselves regulate a number of problems that might otherwise arise by means of a code of ethics and principles. it's a suggestion i'm making, but it's worth thinking about. as regards the new member states, i am very pleased to see that there is a strong will, particularly among a number of them - the czech republic in particular comes to mind - to demonstrate international solidarity through increased humanitarian aid in the future. it is also important to note that six member states alone provide 49% of the total eu aid and that the share of aid from the other nineteen member states is 18% of the total. the involvement in the humanitarian field is very uneven. as far as palestine is concerned, i do not feel that the european union is giving with one hand and taking with the other. of course, there are questions about the fact that our development aid and, above all, our humanitarian aid are sometimes held hostage to the situation in palestine, but i do not feel that the european union, and certainly not the commission, deserves to be accused of taking what it gives from one hand and taking it from the other. i would like to make a simple comment, mr schmidt, on humanitarian aid in eritrea. there is no humanitarian aid in eritrea, we don't spend a penny of humanitarian aid in eritrea. i suppose you're confusing it with development aid. in the political dialogues we have with eritrea, the question of the journalist you mentioned is always present. i called, i saw isaiah, i talked about this issue. he is backing the fact that this is a problem that is strictly within eritrean national law. i share your views and your position on this, of course, but to link development aid to this issue is extremely dangerous. indeed, if you condition the release of the journalist, for example, on a political decision, if you condition your development aid on this issue, who will be the victim? it's not the eritrean authorities, it's obviously the people you want to help, that is the people. it's a little more complicated than you seem to think. we cannot tie strictly issues of this kind, which are extremely painful issues, which challenge me, which are constantly present in the dialogue - and i am continually pushing for a solution to this problem - we cannot tie this to the granting of development aid. in any case, as far as humanitarian aid is concerned, i can tell you that there is no european humanitarian aid in eritrea. but there are development projects that we do finance.
i am not going to go into detail. i am glad that at least two group leaders are here, one of whom i almost missed, but he is now walking swiftly to his seat. the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the european interest: success in the age of globalisation.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the title of this debate expresses the idea that the european parliament should discuss with the council and the commission the role that europe, the european institutions and its member states want to play in tackling the opportunities and risks of globalisation. this also means that we have to make clear - and this is becoming clear in the debate today - that there are different ways of looking at it and a competition of different approaches to dealing with the effects of globalisation. the negotiations on the resolution to be adopted today have shown that there is a serious difference, a gulf in many areas between what the right wing in this house envisages and what we as a social democratic group want. we shall therefore describe what we say in this debate as the parameters we use when we assess the role of the institutions, and in particular the commission. i have listened very carefully to you and to mr daul, and there are some similarities, mr president of the commission, but there are also some very clear differences. anyone who is running for the office of president of the commission, now or in the future, will have to be judged by our group on a number of essential points, particularly the role the commission is supposed to play in the globalised economy. macroeconomic policy coordination, as it is so well known, - one could say, for example, the common economic and financial policy - must be based on the principle of social policy. economic progress in europe must lead to greater social stability. europe must ensure that economic progress in the world leads to more equality in the world. this too is social policy! the social dimension, both internal and external, is our common standard. economic progress as a prerequisite for social security, and not the other way around, as we have heard in a few of the talks here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we didn't. we say that europe's success model has been social progress and economic progress - two sides of the same coin. that hasn't changed for us. (applause from the centre) that was an interesting interlocutor from mr daul, and the house should hear it too: first the economy. i'm not going to. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and let 's be clear about this: the vast majority of the governments in the council are centre-right governments, and the commission is not the eldorado of socialism. you are a centre-right politician, and so are most of your commissioners. we are therefore watching the commission's actions very closely when it comes to assessing the credibility of your statements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. yes, you are! but then we also need the commission's proposals for directives. we need the appropriate legislative initiatives to ensure that. there are some positive aspects which we support, but there are also some things which we must question. we also need more effective administration. i do not know whether this is, as the headlines say, better lisbon governance. i do not know whether the average citizen or the average citizen on the street understands what we mean by that. and if you are talking about administrative simplification and you need the former bavarian prime minister for that - congratulations, i wish you much success! but what we need in any case - and we are in full agreement with you, mr president of the commission - is that this wild west capitalism, which rules the financial markets and threatens entire economies, needs international rules. then let us start with the rules in europe! that is why we expect very concrete - and you have our support - control, transparency and, by the way, also limitation of the power of the international financial capitalists. this is one of the crucial points for social progress in europe. in conclusion, mr president, mr hans-gert, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today, the question of how we are to deal with globalisation, and the question of what influence europe - europe as an institutionalised europe, you as the commission, we as parliament - can actually exert in order to achieve the ambitious objectives of: we shall be judged by the voters on this. if we simply describe what we want in every general debate, but do not follow the concrete legislative measures here and in the member states, then it is useless. we therefore expect that what we are describing here will be translated into concrete policy in our joint resolution. (applause from the left)
mr schulz, you are right. if you were allowed to overspend your speaking time, it has nothing to do with the way you addressed the president, but the overspend time is then deducted from your group's speaking time at the end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. globalisation is not a natural process - although it is often portrayed as such - but is itself the result of policy. it has been politicised with every measure to further deregulate and liberalise international capital flows. it is politicised by any blackmail of a developing country to open its capital market, to allow foreign takeovers. it is made by the industrialized countries and not least by the european union. what the term globalization really describes is not so much the internationalization of the economy as the power of wealthy people, banks and corporations, unhampered by any national regulation, to move their money, without regard for social consequences, to where it will yield the highest returns. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the objective of competitiveness is, in fact, exactly that: falling corporate taxes, broken social systems, brutal wage dumping. in other words, a capitalism that is becoming less and less controlled. in this sense, of course, globalization has not only losers, it also has very rich beneficiaries. the european companies, which have become global players in the course of this globalisation, are among them, and their earnings performance has been very poor in recent years. the vast majority, however, are not benefiting from this development. on the contrary, unbridled capitalism is the rule of the strong capital and the oppression and exploitation of the weak capital. the present resolution, which glorifies such conditions, will not be accepted by our group. we will continue to fight for a different economic order in europe, one in which people are not just cost factors and in which countries are more than just economic locations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you have listened to the speeches here, especially those of mrs wagenknecht and mr schulz, you will see that they were talking about a time which, fortunately, has long since passed. it was a socialist motto that does not help us in any way in the matter of globalisation. everyone in this room knows that economic freedom, prosperity development and the social model are possible at the same time. europe is the best example of this. just as we introduced the euro as an internal fitness programme in the european internal market, so we have the lisbon strategy, with all its reservations and problems, as a fitness programme in the competition of globalisation. we have no reason to hide. it's totally unreal the way this is being talked about. globalisation is the engine of democracy and prosperity for the underdeveloped countries. it is not that there are only negative examples, as has been documented here in the last few speeches, but that all benefit from this: the developing countries, the emerging countries, also the developed countries, which have created an excess state that the beneficiaries can no longer afford. we cannot turn back the clock, and europe is the model for the world. why are we not telling you? why do we always say the negative things? of course, one can speak of wild west manners in the financial markets. yes, we need international coordination. we need an international limit, we need international oversight. but who, apart from mr goebbels, has said that there are also defects in the system which we have not been able to contain? in japan, the rule is that the top manager can earn no more than twenty times the average worker. what is the rationale for the thousandfold in europe and the united states? we can talk about this, but we can't speak badly of globalization as a whole, which gives us more opportunities, which combines freedom and prosperity at the same time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission intends to present proposals over the next three years to reorient economic, social and environmental policies in the european union. that's good, because so far, nothing's on the table. the october paper we are discussing here is a short paper - by the way, it is always good to present a short paper - but it is also a flat paper, a thin paper from which we cannot discern the direction in which the journey should take. the commission must help us to resolve a contradiction: if we take the cover page, the introduction, the debate in this house today, we are talking about enormous challenges: globalisation, climate change, the debate on international financial markets, the great challenges we are facing in all the member states. but if we continue the discussion, if we get down to the practical, they say: no, we do not need changes in the guidelines of practical policy. this is incomprehensible! it's completely incomprehensible, because it naturally raises the question: what is this discourse about globalization? is this an excuse for not taking action in the practical implementation of our social, environmental and economic policies, or is it really a chance to see the reality and to give the people in the countries of the european union answers to their urgent questions and needs? i want to raise a few more questions: if it is true that our future is the ecological industrial society, why is it so difficult to talk in the commission, with the commission and also in this house about the sensible investment policy we need to be able to master that? why can't we talk about building renovation programs, why can't we talk about modern transportation and transportation systems that we need to be able to deal with this? why is it almost forbidden to talk about good investment policy? and why is this not in the commission's programme? why is this not mentioned in the lisbon work programme? if we are talking about the educational triangle - the need for education and innovation - why can we not make the pact for youth practical and guarantee every young person in the european union a qualified education so that they can contribute with expertise and intelligence to the transformation of industrial society? these are the practical challenges we want to meet!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. our european interest in surviving in the age of globalisation means above all that we must seize our opportunities. we have too much public discussion of the effects that are negative. we discuss this when companies have to cut jobs or move them abroad. but we talk far too little about all the good things that come out of it. for example, if i look at my constituency, my home region, 74% of the industrial production in my constituency is now going abroad. we are definitely benefiting from globalization. unfortunately, in my home region too, people are being laid off by companies that are no longer profitable, but many more can be hired by other companies that have benefited from globalisation and have adapted to it, and we have a significant fall in unemployment. we don't talk about this very often. the european union is important in shaping globalisation. the 480 million europeans must stand together to defend their interests and values. we are already the most open economy in the world, but we need access to global markets. we need to pay more attention to reciprocity. non-tariff barriers to trade and other barriers are intolerable. we must be able to defend ourselves against unfair trade practices. we need trade defence instruments to do that. and for that we need a commissioner who does not represent the european union in an unbelieving and arrogant way, but who represents our interests in trade in an open, collegial and trusting manner. we need to protect intellectual property better, we need to promote more global rules and standards, we need to strengthen the wto and we need the transatlantic partnership. if we do this homework, and if the commission does this homework, then we can really use and shape globalisation to ensure that citizens as a whole continue to live in freedom and prosperity.
the commission has already done so. those who speak out for a more just world are not shy about pointing to globalization as a cause of economic hardship in their own countries. they therefore call for less market, more regulation and more government intervention. globalisation offers a real opportunity to become a win-win scenario, as it allows emerging economies and laggards to catch up with the global economy, and it offers us the opportunity to develop new markets for sophisticated, high-quality products, assets and services. but to seize these opportunities, we must do our homework: more efforts in education, training - especially for unemployed young people - and lifelong learning, more research and development, more investment in innovation and ecology, more creativity in shaping the value chains and processes of our economy, more free enterprise. without hindrance, globalisation leads to more open markets and more competition. all consumers benefit from this. we must resist the temptation to protect our economy. this protection would very quickly degenerate into pure protectionism. let us instead encourage the forces inherent in our economy to renew itself constantly. if we invest in the technologies of the future, we will win them too!
i have to say, madam president, globalization in two minutes. i'll try it. my first request is that we be a little bit more honest about the issue of globalisation in the discussion. the region from which i come, bavaria, lives on 50% of exports. many people are critical of globalization, but if you asked them, "do you agree that you can no longer serve the world markets?" they would disagree. even if we were to look around in the audience and ask the question: who would agree not to buy cheap products - be it electrical goods, textiles or from other sectors? no one would agree. everyone knows that the imports from these countries are the reason why the inflation rate is as low as it has been in recent years. this is part of being honest, even though we regularly talk about globalization as a threat. europe must shape globalisation, because we have benefited from it so far as producers and consumers. that is what we are talking about, for example, and that is very important for commissioner verheugen and for europe: the reduction of bureaucracy. i am not just referring to the commission, but also to parliament and the council. we are talking about globalisation now, but after that we will be adopting the soil directive, which will add more bureaucracy. we must therefore also take a strong stance in europe. and we are supposed to shape europe! when we look at the subprime crisis in the united states, it is necessary to see that international financial markets are intertwined and we europeans need to be involved. how do we deal with rating agencies, how do we deal with hedge funds? unfortunately, commissioner mccreevy, who is responsible for this, has not yet been at the forefront of the movement to give the americans and other markets the go-ahead, and europe is lagging behind. but i am firmly convinced that europe is well prepared for globalisation. we benefit from it, we have to explain it to people, we have to push for minimum standards whereas these will not be european standards , and then we are prepared, fit and the beneficiaries of globalization. the choice of whether or not to go global is not decided in brussels or strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that this soil protection directive is a serious mistake which threatens the competitiveness of european agriculture and the food supply in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive. i'll tell you what: they think we need a huge bureaucratic directive, mapping 420 million hectares of land, threatening horrendous fines and finally creating soil protection areas so that farmers can be careful with the land. but i'm telling you, this picture is a classic. soil is the most valuable resource of any farmer. a farmer who does not take care of his soil will not be a farmer for long. we have in the eu predominantly cultivated land, land that is worth preserving, cultivated by our farmers. i think the directive is an example of bureaucracy that is not practical, and i hope that we can correct this mistake soon before our agriculture suffers serious damage.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the commission's proposal. the proposal infringes the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. many countries already have laws to protect the soil. the commission proposal does not take sufficient account of this. i also voted against the report and most of the compromises in the final vote. i do believe that the report adopted by parliament is an improvement on the commission's proposal. there have been improvements in the identification of potentially contaminated sites. we have more flexibility in the annex ii criteria. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. it is positive that the criteria in annex i are no longer mandatory in the future. it is also positive that the directive recognises the specific features of land use for agricultural purposes. the negative points, however, are overwhelming. we should have made it clearer, for example, as regards financing, that the soil directive has no impact on the community budget and that no new funds are being set up to implement the directive. only existing funding should be used. for these reasons i voted against the directive and i hope that the council will now correct this directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the so-called soil protection directive because i find it incredible that we are talking every day about cutting red tape and creating a new bureaucratic monster with this directive. unlike air and water, soil is not a cross-border problem but a national one. this directive is as redundant as a toad. the commission and president barroso should have withdrawn this directive. president barroso speaks in flowery speeches about cutting red tape without acting on those speeches. in my country, they call such people "steam-chatterers". i've been farming my land for 46 years. my soil is more productive today than it was 46 years ago. i would be in favour of a european soil protection regulation, but i would be in favour of a soil protection regulation which protects my soil from european bureaucracy.
in writing. soil is one of the vital resources. as a non-producible commodity, it is of major importance for biodiversity, as a source of raw materials and also for storing and filtering nutrients and water. but land is not a transfrontier asset and cannot be taken for granted by the european union. the protection of our soils is in the interest of the landowners and therefore the responsibility of the member states. this application of the principle of subsidiarity must continue to be ensured. it is not justified to ignore all existing european legislation and the commitment of farmers to date and to adopt new rules in parallel with european directives, national regulations and cross compliance, which directly or indirectly concern soil protection. the eu has adopted a large number of soil-related directives and regulations, including the nitrates directive, the water framework directive, the emissions directive and the plant protection directive. the bureaucratic burden that could be placed on member states and the economy is in sharp contrast to the joint efforts to de-bureaucratize. in addition, the precautionary measures provided for in the directive cover all areas of agricultural law. i think that a soil protection directive at european level is unnecessary and not appropriate and i voted against this proposal.
in writing. i reject the soil protection directive because it is a massive breach of subsidiarity and therefore unacceptable as european legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
in writing. i reject the soil protection directive because it is a massive breach of subsidiarity and therefore unacceptable as european legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the hegyi report because we have repeatedly criticised the lack of democracy that exists in genetically modified organisms. we know that there are few cases where there has been a qualified decision in the council of ministers or in the standing committee for or against the authorization of gmos. the same basic game has always been played: the eu commission has authorised gmos against the will of eu citizens, despite the concerns of many member states and experts as risk managers. the european commission cannot have the last word. it needs the control of the ep. the hegyi report is indeed moving in the right direction, namely to make parliament's codecision on gmo authorizations binding. we reject the negotiated compromise, however, because the democratic deficit of comitology persists. there is really only one solution to this, namely the european parliament's co-decision in all areas of gmo authorization. i therefore find it somewhat regrettable that we did not make the most of this vote and did not seize the opportunity to put more pressure on the continuation of this democratic deficit.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european union has become the talk of the day - as the presidency of the council has shown again today - to talk about european leadership in international climate action. when i think back to last march and the summit resolutions to achieve 20 percent co2 reduction, 20 percent efficiency, 20 percent renewable energy by 2020, that sounds like leadership, too. i am very sorry that we have not been able to negotiate the energy package with the member states to the extent that we can support the decisions taken at the bali summit in brussels. if the third countries with whom we are going to negotiate in bali look behind the scenes in europe and see how difficult it is to negotiate with the member states on energy efficiency and renewable energy, they will see that this is a mourning game. i think it is a very bad omen that you are demanding great things from the world and are only willing to go forward in triple steps at home. the problem is not that we didn't have the technologies. the problem is that we do not yet have the political courage to actually initiate the paradigm shift in energy policy, in resource policy, which was discussed last march. i must say that when the reul report was adopted in the last plenary session, i was appalled to see that once again only coal and nuclear energy were mentioned as the answer, and i am ashamed that europeans are now offering african countries nuclear energy as a solution to the climate problem. i think some europeans must have gone mad.
madam president, my dear stavros dimas, i have to tell you that i have been very disappointed with the way you have handled this matter. welcome to the round here. we look forward to discussing with you in bali the way europe wants to go about climate policy. i think it's a shared challenge to do climate policy. this is not just something for dreamy environmentalists, this is not just something for liberal merchants, but we all have to take up this challenge together, and the climate committee is on its way to doing that. we have not yet reached all of them, but at least we are on the right track. bali is a landmark, there's no question about it. a bali gap - that would be a kyoto gap - would be a disaster, not only for the environment, but also for economic policy, because without solid data, they cannot invest. it's also about where we are at the moment, and what we actually have to offer in bali. because only if we can offer something can we expect other continents to join us in solving the problem together. that is why it is right that we make a commitment here: three times twenty is a lot, and we will be happy when we reach these goals. i see great obstacles ahead, but we will get there. but i also believe that, precisely because we have to lead by example, we will also achieve that we get a european environmental foreign policy that also affects why we actually have these huge fires all over the world that produce more co2 than all the european power plants combined. i believe that europe must intervene, and we are on the right track, and then the americans from within the united states will not necessarily be forced to take positive action by their government. that's where we're going. i see climate change as nothing more than a huge economic opportunity. if we don't take advantage of it, others will.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. at the spring summit, the heads of state and government made good decisions on combating climate change. the decision of the heads of state or government provides for a 20% reduction in greenhouse gases in europe by 2020 compared to 1990. the spring summit also agreed to raise the reduction target to 30% if other industrialised nations commit to reducing greenhouse gases. the eu should therefore do everything possible to encourage other industrialised nations to join the post-kyoto agreement. i would like to mention one specific point, namely the transport sector. the important thing is that we succeed in integrating the transport sector into the kyoto follow-up agreement. in europe alone, transport is responsible for 21% of greenhouse gases. in particular, international air traffic was not included in the kyoto protocol because the international civil aviation organization (icao) has assured that it wants to create a global system. this promise has not been fulfilled since 1997, and unfortunately we are still waiting for air transport to be integrated into the agreement, and i would like to see it launched in bali.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is a big climate problem. no one will deny that. but the political debate is about how we deal with the question of the solution. i must say that we have major problems with the way the problem is being dealt with in this report. problems are not solved by describing doomsday scenarios and talking about human rights violations, choosing language that is more deterrent than it is solution-oriented. it is a matter of looking for solutions in a sober, objective way, weighing different arguments. i therefore regret that we have not been prepared to accept different views on the causes of climate change. i am in favour of setting ambitious targets, but we must also make sure that they are achievable. otherwise, the policy will be ineffective in the end. it is not possible to establish a taboo and say: the subject of coal and development or the subject of nuclear energy must not be discussed at all, but the only answer is renewable energy. that does not do justice to the problem at all. it is a matter of a comprehensive debate, covering all aspects in detail and open to different instruments, open to different references. i think it is also important, for example, to consider what effects we can achieve by what means. how do we get the most impact? it is also a matter of weighing the cost. i think it is important not only to focus on the method of government policy decisions but also to consider, as some colleagues have told me, how to promote and support technological development. it is not for me to have the debate here today on the one hand and then two, three hours or two, three days later in the same place to discuss lisbon strategies and the like. and that has to be brought together if we want to fight climate change, if we want to mitigate the consequences. i think that the critical remarks which we also made in the discussions had only a limited chance. i hope that we will have a chance to make a more nuanced argument when the next comprehensive report by the committee on climate change is presented.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i am very much surprised by the words of mr batten, who comes from the cosmopolitan united kingdom and spreads petty and xenophobic propaganda here with false allegations. it has nothing to do with the great tradition of this great britain. the neighbourhood policy is now arguably the most important foreign policy instrument the european union has, as we are now entering a phase of consolidation rather than enlargement with a total of 12 countries. it is therefore important that this instrument is used in an appropriate and concentrated manner. this is already apparent in a number of points. the neighbourhood policy is also an important instrument for taking action on the middle east conflict, as the commissioner has said. i believe that the fact that georgia has been able to find solutions so quickly after the tensions and to hold new elections is also due to the impact of the european perspective and the neighbourhood policy and shows that we are on the right track here. it is here that we have the opportunity to represent our interests and to create bonds and serve the interests of our partners and to promote progress towards human rights and democracy. in this context, when we discuss belarus, commissioner, i find it interesting how we can properly link the instruments of human rights and democracy, where the neighbourhood instrument cannot yet do so. this is an important exercise which we must continue next year. we have a neighbourhood policy in the east and a neighbourhood policy in the south. both are equally important. but the method does not always have to be the same, because the eastern neighbourhood policy also has to do with a european perspective and there can therefore be different starting points and, to a certain extent, different perspectives. policies that deal with association agreements, partnership and cooperation agreements, and the objectives for a country, such as getting ukraine into the wto, then establishing a free trade area - steps towards a corresponding development - seem to me to be of great importance in order to make progress here. this is a policy of shared responsibility. it is not only the central europeans who look to the east and the southern europeans to the south - the whole of the european community is responsible for both parts. i would therefore like to say that i do not accept proposals such as the mediterranean union. i would like the spanish and french to take care of ukraine as the swedes and germans take care of morocco. this must be our policy, not a new division of the european union. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's neighbourhood policy is officially aimed at creating a quote ring of stable, friendly states around the eu. a lot of money is being spent on this, 12 billion euros for the period 2007-2013. to what end? there is a lot of talk about human rights, but it is about promoting eu interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it's a lot about border control and immigration control. in particular, it states i quote parts of the report: stresses the need to improve the capacity of enp countries to manage migration flows, to combat illegal immigration effectively, ... to intensify their cooperation in the fight against ... terrorism ... and supports the involvement of neighbouring countries in frontex and europol. these are points which we do not support and therefore, as my colleague willy meyer-pleite has said, we as a group will not support this report.
acting president of the council. we have just had a discussion here in this house on the european neighbourhood policy, which is specifically aimed at our partners on our continent, and i suppose that the general conclusion was that, despite the difficulties that may exist, despite the improvements that may be introduced, this european neighbourhood policy, which is part of our strategy, has worked well and has provided and guaranteed many of our partners, our neighbours, with a situation of stability, economic progress and economic and social development. many of our partners, for well-known historical reasons, are naturally now in what we might call transitional phases, phases of democratic consolidation, phases of consolidation of their rule of law, and as often happens, these processes are not without difficulties, they are not without turbulence, they are not without problems. and that may be the case in some of these countries. we have spoken of georgia recently, when i said here that about three weeks ago i chaired the association council with georgia and had the opportunity to tell our georgian counterparts that, for example, in the economic field, we were pleased to see some significant progress in terms of economic development, despite the problems that this country has with russia. we must therefore be prepared for significant progress as we hope and as we wish, but also, for reasons which are known, sometimes also for some setbacks, which we sincerely hope will be only temporary and that states and countries can quickly return to the path of progress and the path of strengthening the rule of law. i must therefore tell you, mr president, in all sincerity, that although we europeans in the european union sometimes tend to be a little too modest about our capacity for achievement and our achievements, we must be a little more, shall we say, kind to ourselves. i think, despite the difficulties, we've done something.
acting president of the council. as you know, mr president, the council does not usually comment on speeches by heads of state of member states of the european union. but of course i have noted the opinion expressed by president sarkozy on this, which is the opinion, which is the opinion of the head of state of a very important member state of the european union such as france. whether or not we are going in that direction, in the direction of a europe of stronger defence, is for the council to decide, i cannot, as you imagine, anticipate what the council's decision will be. if that is the council's decision, which is a decision which, as you know, requires very high degrees of consensus in this specific area of defence, if the council so decides, of course we can go along with it, but the decision is obviously in the hands of the council, i do not have a crystal ball here and so i cannot tell you to what extent this idea will make its way. we shall see, but obviously, as a proposal from president sarkozy, it is always, like all proposals from president sarkozy, listened to carefully.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr member, the decision of the european council in december 2005 to grant candidate status to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was a recognition of the reform efforts undertaken by that country. the european council stated that any further steps on the path towards the union would be weighed in the light, first, of the debate on the enlargement strategy provided for in the council conclusions of 12 december 2005 and concluded in the so-called renewed consensus on enlargement reached at the european council of 14 and 15 december 2006. secondly, the way in which the former yugoslav republic of macedonia fulfils the copenhagen criteria. thirdly, the requirements of the stabilisation and association process and the effective implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement. finally, and fourthly, the need to make further significant progress in meeting the other aspects and the other essential criteria for accession referred to in the commission's opinion, and in implementing the priorities of the european partnership. in its interim reports, the commission has analysed developments in detail. following the assessment of the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia as set out in the 2006 commission report, the council regretted at its meeting of 11-12 december 2006 the slowdown in the pace of reforms in 2006. on 14 and 15 december 2006, the european council reiterated that progress towards closer union by each country will continue to depend on its ability to meet the copenhagen criteria and the conditions set out in the stabilisation and association process. the european council called on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to accelerate the pace of reforms in the key areas and to implement the priorities defined in the european partnership in order to allow it to make progress in the accession process. the fourth meeting of the stabilisation and association council between the european union and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia took place on 24 july. the message contained in the union's common position to the stabilisation and association council is that stability and the proper functioning of democratic institutions are fundamental aspects of the political criteria essential to advancing integration in the union. institutions such as the government, parliament and the president must function and cooperate effectively. furthermore, they must play their distinct roles and interact as provided for in the constitution. a constructive political climate must be established and maintained so that the country can focus on the reforms needed to move forward on its path towards the union. more efforts are also needed to build trust between ethnic communities at all levels. the union reaffirmed that the sustained implementation of the ohrid framework agreement constitutes a key element of the policy criteria. every effort should be made to reach the broadest possible political agreement on the related reforms in full respect of the letter and spirit of the agreement. the meeting also recalled the importance of progress in the areas of justice and home affairs, in particular the fight against organised crime and corruption. at the above meeting, the council also recalled that regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are an essential part of the process of approximation to the union. finally, i would like to say that the council is examining very carefully the commission report which was recently published on 6 november and which will be the subject of conclusions at the general affairs and external relations council next december.
i thank you, mr president, for your very detailed reply. i have only two brief additions. firstly, do you think it is conceivable that such a date for the opening of accession negotiations could be set for next year? the candidate status has been in place for over two years and it is time to think about a date. secondly, what is the situation if we try to link this with other countries, such as serbia, or if we really treat this country separately from others?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we have already discussed the european neighbourhood policy in the plenary this afternoon. after the 2004 enlargement, the european commission proposed to develop a coherent strategy towards the new eu neighbours. the enp has created a ring of countries that share the eu's fundamental values and objectives. our neighbour, ukraine, is firmly anchored in the enp. we are aware of its special geopolitical and trade policy importance, which forms a natural bridge between the eu, russia and central asia. today, the eu is ukraine's largest trading partner, with trade between ukraine and eu member states already amounting to eur 26.6 billion in 2006. we in the european union appreciate the great efforts made in ukraine in recent years. ukraine has developed from a state-controlled economy to a well-functioning market economy. the average growth rate of ukraine in 2000-2006 was 7.6%, according to the oecd report. this is a great success. in february 2007, we started negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu. ukraine's eu and nato aspirations are also well known. the eu has also been active in the field of trade and economic policy, with ukraine's accession to the world trade organisation at the top of its agenda. we believe that accession to the wto will be possible later this year. the eu and ukraine would then have a much wider scope for cooperation and the way would be cleared for negotiations on a free trade area under the enp. the eu must take ukraine seriously as a partner and send clear messages to it. i can only welcome the outcome of the eu-ukraine summit in kiev on 14 september 2007. the strong and lasting relations between the two parties were reaffirmed. we should continue to give ukraine intensive support in its efforts to join the wto, to establish a free trade area and to pursue its european aspirations.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not everyone thanked our colleague zaleski, and i want to do the same. the report was adopted unanimously by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities, which shows that if we try to produce a report across the political groups, it is possible. let me make a few remarks. the elections in ukraine have taken place. they were democratic, they were fair, they were open, but i think they didn't solve a lot of problems. the current president has always had difficulty dealing with strong prime ministers, whether it was yulia tymoshenko, whom he fired in 2005, or mr yanukovych in 2006/2007. the coalition agreement concluded between the alliance of yulia tymoshenko and the our ukraine party is a document, the basis for a possible new government, but the government has not yet been formed. we do not know how this will turn out, and the date is already quite close. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without constitutional reform, it is not excluded that the internal stability of the political forces of ukraine will not be sufficient to prevent new elections in the future, especially since some are already thinking of calling for new elections to the parliament in the presidential elections. if you look at certain areas - for example economic policy - the oecd report is really positive. it states that ukraine had an average gdp growth of 8.7% between 2000 and 2006. but if you look back, you see that the trade deficit is huge. the trade deficit of ukraine with the cis countries is slightly over eur 4.5 billion and slightly under eur 4.5 billion with the european union. this means that there is still a lot of economic change to be made and that the partnership agreements can and must serve this purpose. on the other hand, if you compare the figures for ukraine with - let me say my own country - the federal republic of germany, you can say: wonderful figures! unemployment in ukraine is lower, gdp growth is higher, social expenditure on pensions is higher, education expenditure - what is invested in the future - is higher in ukraine as a proportion of gdp than in the federal republic of germany. so it is clear that this country is absolutely on the right track! but of course there are problems in other areas as i have said in relation to the economy. russia has clearly indicated and said that from 1 january 2008 energy prices will increase by 10%. this will have a huge impact on the ukrainian economy. currently, ukraine is paying off its debt by supplying gas from its own deposits to russia. we'll see how that plays out. it will again become a political issue and it is important that the european union intervenes in a peaceful way. the russians have the right to raise their prices, and the ukrainians must of course also see how they can get by economically. the commission has already made a number of proposals. all the parties, all of them, have announced during the elections and the preparations for the elections a frightening increase in spending on social policy. if you look at the coalition agreements that have been made between the tymoshenko bloc and the president's party: there's no mention of any increase in social spending. and it is not possible, in principle, with the existing state revenue to make such expenditure increases as promised. this means that the development in ukraine will not progress as fast as it is always claimed. the next point i would like to raise concerns the area of foreign policy. all the parties, all of them, promised during the elections to lean more closely towards the european union. the party which has always linked this alignment with the european union most closely to the question of ukraine's accession to nato has lost the most. it was the our ukraine party. and the absolute majority of the ukrainian population is also against joining nato. i would ask the european union to be careful here. the majority of the population does not want this accession to nato. they want to join the wto, all the data we have says so. in this context, if we think about how the partnership agreements must be designed now, then it is precisely the needs with which ukraine still has these difficulties that i have listed. the eu has a long way to go before it can be fully integrated into the european union. it is good for the european union to have a strong partner in the east, and it is good for ukraine in its overall geostrategic orientation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to begin by pointing out that we are having the second debate today on a subject of foreign trade policy in which the commission is not represented by the commissioner responsible. we had the main debate on globalisation this morning, the commissioner responsible was not present, and the colleagues responsible for this important subject are not present this evening either. i have nothing against you, mr borg, but i would like the commission to be present with the staff responsible. i would be very grateful if you could, mr president, tell the commission about this for future debates - certainly in the interest of all colleagues. i would like to thank my colleague, mr zaleski, for his very balanced report. we need to work better with our neighbour, ukraine. the european neighbourhood policy should therefore be designed accordingly. that is why it is good that the european union is going to join the wto. that is why it is good that we are negotiating a partnership and cooperation agreement, and it is good that we are going to support the vision of a free trade area as a prudent beginning to a european perspective for ukraine. i would also like to say that i do not see any membership for the foreseeable future at the moment. better cooperation - and this has been mentioned by several colleagues before me - is also urgently needed. both sides can benefit from it. it is particularly important to me that we have good cooperation with our eastern neighbours and that we are very much in solidarity with them. it is, for example, intolerable in my view that russia makes its cooperation with ukraine dependent on which government is in office in ukraine and which majority in the ukrainian parliament is elected by the people. this is intolerable, and with such a policy russia is on the way out. we must support the people of ukraine on their way to independence and to a stable democracy. the report by mr zaleski is a major and important contribution to this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. unlike some of my immediate predecessors, i think that the commission can only be congratulated on the communications which have been the basis of this debate. they are not only a treasure trove of social facts and data in the member states, but in my view also a clear sign that the eu and the commission are serious about having an independent social policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the european council in brussels in december 2006 stressed the importance of the social dimension in the union's development and called for the european union to take a more active role in the development of social policy. the commission's proposals are not entirely self-evident, because in many areas the predominance of economic policy is unfortunately not to be overlooked. i would remind you of the green paper on employment law and the debate on flexicurity. the first has been deleted by the commission since yesterday, which i warmly welcome, and it would be advisable to do so for the flexicurity proposals which are aimed at hard-won rights of workers in employment. all the points raised in this report - thank you, mrs lynne - are very timely. i am thinking of the debate on minimum wages in my country and the wage demands supported by the strikes in the french and german railways today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. work must pay, that must be the principle. what i always feel very sorry for is the child poverty that i myself have to complain about in my own country. i think we must pay more attention to this, and we must not allow it. i would like to see a rapid effort in the member states to make it unnecessary to declare 2010 the european year of poverty and social exclusion.
commissioner, my dear liz! i would like to thank the commission for its initiatives and you, liz, for your excellent report. if we want to combat poverty - as mr fatuzzo has already said - we really have to focus more on the elderly. we must take account of demographic change and, despite the ever-increasing costs of health care, ensure that it is still possible to age with dignity in the future. older people also have a right to comprehensive and quality healthcare and care, regardless of their place of residence and income. we urgently need a targeted exchange of experience among member states on how best to organise and ensure high quality care and how to provide it in an affordable way. we must take account in particular of the problem of the growing number of people with dementia. but for this, we need solid data. that is why we are asking the commission to provide us with this data as soon as possible. in a social europe, all patients must have equal access to evidence-based medicines and medical devices. it is not acceptable that the same antibiotic costs 3 euros in belgium and 34 euros in germany. i am therefore pleased that we are calling on the commission and the member states in this report to develop, in close dialogue with us, the pharmaceutical industry and patient groups, balanced guidelines for greater transparency in the efficacy and pricing of medicines. this too is a contribution to reducing the cost of health care for all of us.
i would like to thank mr salafranca. we shall do so in parliament and, moreover, inform the commission of your views.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the council accepted on friday the main elements of this regulation on the financing of european parties and european foundations. this morning there was a trilogue with the commission and the council and we reached agreement on the remaining questions. there is therefore a real chance of adopting this project at first reading and of creating the conditions for better financing already in 2008. i therefore propose that we postpone the vote until the next plenary session, on 29 november, in brussels.
mr president, after the withdrawal of an oral amendment to paragraph 5, the epp group, unlike its lists, wishes to vote against.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are colleagues who start with the middle part: points out that one etc. until domestic demand have a problem. i therefore propose, in agreement with mr caspary of the ppe group, to insert the words in some member states here, by european economy, and i hope that this will eliminate the problems with the middle part. i think that would also help the alde group.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no objection to postponing the text, but i would still ask that we vote on it. if the text is approved by the house, it belongs elsewhere, but it may well not be approved, so i ask that the original text be put to the vote.
there was no request for a separate vote. after the final vote:
member of the commission. naturally, the opinion voted by parliament is an opinion which carries the weight it deserves and the commission must necessarily take it into account when preparing further documents, so that in this respect parliament's vote carries the weight it deserves in any case, and the question of the integrated guidelines was a fundamental question for the debate we had with parliament.
we interpret 'some weight' as 'a lot of weight' and recommend that the commission should share our view.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we had a very long debate here in this house, with commissioner frattini. mr frattini reacted very moderately to the remarks he made himself and to the replies to the speeches made by various members. the resolution criticises only one point, namely that commissioner frattini has been shown to have misinformed the public on a specific point of european law. the fact that our resolution corrects this and also makes it clear that the commissioner responsible for the protection of the rights of the citizens of europe is making a false statement in public on a vital civil law issue is the duty of this parliament and has nothing to do with any conspiracy theories. we know very well, however, mr daul, that you are a regrettable colleague, because you made that statement under pressure from forza italia, and that is all there is to say. (applause from the left)
we don't want to have a debate here!
i ask that we not treat the matter with such great emotion.
i have three more comments to make and then we shall conclude this short debate.
that's how it counts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if i were to congratulate you on how well you can express yourself in my own language, i would do so.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to do so. muslims are massively advocating for muslim minorities. we stand up for muslims and other religious minorities. but the sad fact is that if we do not stand up for christians, no one will. the islamic league or the arab league have never stood up for the rights of christians in the way we have stood up for the rights of muslims. that is why it is high time that we put this issue on the agenda. it's an act of justice, and i have to be very clear: islam is not the problem. the christians in the middle east survived under islamic rule for 1200 years. they are in great danger in our supposedly advanced age - and even more so in iraq, under western occupation. we must take our own responsibility to enable them to survive in freedom and dignity. the mass of religious persecution is found in communist china, in pseudo-christian nationalist russia, in communist dictatorships also in islamist regimes, whereas islamism for me is just a perverse dictatorship and ideology of the twentieth century. we europeans have a duty here, and we will fulfill it! (applause from the centre)
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as a democratic institution, we cannot allow human rights to be trampled on anywhere in the world. but we cannot accept any more that diplomatic relations and interparliamentary cooperation between the eu and uzbekistan are being jeopardized in our own house. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. in the last resolution of parliament in october 2006, we called for a constructive and dialogue-oriented solution. but today, instead of seeking dialogue, they are slamming a door. i cannot answer that on behalf of my group. i therefore ask you to reject the resolutions of the socialists, liberals and left. the following points are for our resolution with the uen group: the political situation in uzbekistan is far from satisfactory. the human rights situation remains worrying in many respects. but progress is being made. for example, on 8 and 9 may this year, a first round of the human rights dialogue between the european union and uzbekistan took place in tashkent. a european parliament resolution must shed light on the current situation and that is the only basis on which this resolution can be based.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission's statement on the acp-ec partnership agreement is scheduled to be tabled today. it is foreseen that there will be a resolution. our group has been discussing this resolution very intensively this morning and over the last few days. we have also tried very hard to negotiate a compromise resolution with other groups with the aim of reaching such a compromise. i'm sorry, but that was not possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask, on behalf of my group, that the resolution on this commission opinion and the vote on the resolution be postponed until the december partsession. i would be grateful if the members of this house could follow this. that leaves some room for compromise.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am a little surprised by the socialist group's motion. the joint motion for a resolution by the socialists, the greens and my group has adopted the resolution adopted in kigali. in kigali, the members of the ppe-de group also agreed to this compromise. i cannot understand why this is being postponed to a new debate when we have already agreed on this together as members of the european parliament. because everyone had agreed to this compromise in kigali! i am therefore opposed to this postponement because the paper was supported by many members of the european parliament. so we can vote on it today.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr de deus pinheiro has just spoken of christmas peace. i'm all for christmas peace, but you don't have to go overboard. we were all very peaceful about finding a kigali compromise. as far as venezuela is concerned, when discussing mr chávez, one cannot be of one opinion, but must simply be of a controversial opinion. we believe that the debate is useful - it is being held now - but we do not believe that a sensible resolution will be reached in the short term - today or tomorrow. and if we go with the resolution to the december partsession, that will be three weeks old. the debate is very useful in this respect, but we do not want a resolution. because this one would really be either hot-wired or it would be way too late. in this respect, debate is enough.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is a core element of the lisbon treaty, one might even say the soul of the new reform treaty. i am glad that all three institutions agree that the lisbon treaty is not just about institutions or policies, but about people, namely the 500 million people in the european union. this charter is a visible expression of the fact that it is about protecting our citizens against all acts emanating from the european union. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is thus a milestone on the road from a europe of states to a europe of citizens. we in parliament have always welcomed this. the european union has the most up-to-date and comprehensive catalogue of fundamental rights in the world, with this charter and the 50 rights and freedoms for people enshrined in it. it is not something that can be repeated anywhere in the world, and we can be proud of that, from article 1, which protects human dignity, to the last article of the charter, which prohibits the punishment of the same offence twice. the charter provides enhanced legal protection and also mentions rights not enshrined in all the 27 member states' constitutions. i would just like to mention the prohibition of reproductive cloning by modern genetic engineering or the right to privacy, the right to freedom of information and access to documents. the right to better governance, which we preach all over the world, must of course also apply to ourselves. for the first time, a catalogue of fundamental rights will include social and economic rights on an equal footing with political rights and freedoms. this is certainly an adequate protection for people in the age of globalization. parliament has repeatedly expressed its regret that the new treaty does not make the full text of the charter public and hence less visible to the public. but it is a matter of satisfaction to note that article 6 of the lisbon treaty states that the union recognises the rights, freedoms and principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. the charter of fundamental rights has the same binding legal force as the treaties. this removes all doubt that the treaty will also give citizens the opportunity to exercise their rights before the national courts and, ultimately, before the european court of justice in luxembourg. we must adopt this charter again in the plenary because it has been changed, we can even say it has been made worse than the charter of 2000. the deterioration of article 52 will also create problems in the interpretation of these very vague clauses which have been found there. but at least she's part of the treaties, and therefore saved. i mean, the bill of rights is a symbol. as has been said here, the eu is not just a large market with a monetary union, but a community of values whose mission is to defend these values in both domestic and external european politics. the opt-out of two member states, namely the united kingdom and poland, is all the more regrettable. we regret this and call on the governments and parliaments of these two countries to make every effort to ensure that this opt-out is repealed as soon as possible and that all 27 member states defend the fundamental rights and values of this union on an equal footing. i therefore support the green group's motion, which will be put to the vote tomorrow as a supplement to our report from the committee on constitutional affairs. i therefore ask for your approval of this important report.
the council has already taken a decision on the matter. it is also a basic right of the citizen not to be overlooked. in fact, this charter of fundamental rights provides protection for the citizen, as is the case in the classical constitutional state. but the european union is not a state. but even though it is not a state, it has legislative powers. and it is this legislative competence of the institutions of the european union alone that is protected and controlled by the charter of fundamental rights in a binding form. the fact that european legislation and the action of the european institutions are bound up with values and decisions on values is at the same time linked to the first sentence of this charter, which is the most magnificent: the dignity of the human being is inviolable. i read this from a christian perspective. but you can also read this from other sources. but that we are bonding, that the three institutions are bonding, that we are submitting to this, is a tremendous progress. this applies to the whole of the european union. there is no doubt that poland and the united kingdom are states of law. but the fact is that by not signing, not recognizing, they are not protecting themselves, but they are protecting themselves from something that is protected anyway. the charter is not applicable to national legislation or national institutions. that means they're protecting themselves from something that's taken for granted. i hope that in poland, where the majority of the people and the parliament are of a different opinion, but where the president is taking advantage of his opportunities, that this will lead to changes in poland in due course. the charter's legal binding force can also be strengthened by the fact that we have a harmonized approach. mr president-in-office, i am grateful to you for the opportunity we have taken to have a single legal personality and to join the strasbourg convention. if we succeed in this, the european legal area will also be joined in a coherence that will bring together the paths of national and european fundamental rights protection, and i believe that we will have a europe of citizens, which is based on values and of which we can be proud!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the discussion on flexicurity shows that it is not possible to simply transfer a member state's social model to the eu as a whole. the commission does not seem to want that either. the commission's document is not about improving the social security of workers in the face of the rapidly changing conditions on the labour market, but rather about promoting the flexibility of industrial relations without being able to provide better social protection for workers, which is the responsibility of the member states. there are different ideas about how important this is. furthermore, we cannot assume that the key role and control function of the trade unions, which is an indispensable part of the flexicurity model in denmark, is now and in the near future taken for granted in the other member states. the commission has also been active in the field of the protection of workers' rights in the context of the european union. we in the green group are critical of the attempt to introduce a deregulation of labour law throughout europe through flexicurity in order to establish the union's global competitiveness at the expense of workers' rights. unfortunately, the coalition in this house is following the commission and is missing the opportunity to introduce an essential part, namely social security, as an equal part of the flexicurity model. i wonder how the social democrats intend to explain this to the workers. i'm afraid that we're starting a future discussion about the benefits of the flexicurity model, which this one does have. that is why we cannot accept this report unless it is amended.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. fewer and fewer people spend their entire working lives with the same employer. the more important it is that they can adapt easily to changing living and working conditions. at the same time, they must have adequate job security. the commissioner has already said that the new concept of flexibility and security will not be widely accepted until flexibility and security are balanced. on the one hand, companies must be empowered to be flexible, to discover market niches, to become more innovative, to anticipate dynamic developments rather than reacting. on the other hand, workers in the member states need security through modern social protection systems and reliable agreements between the social partners. in addition, the right conditions must be created for more permanent employment and for easier transitions into new jobs. the abuse of new forms of employment must be prevented, as must the use of false selfemployment and undeclared work. another focus is lifelong learning. this is what makes employees fit for globalization. i do not think that compulsory investment of 2% of gdp is acceptable, because we need financial leeway in the member states. but we need to be able to invest significantly more in our most important resource, in well-educated people who are highly qualified, motivated and adaptable. the epp-ed group has again tabled some of my amendments. in one, i advocate that companies decide their own approaches to social responsibility. the basis of csr must remain voluntary and not compulsory. and lastly, the postponement of the free movement of persons from 2013 to 2009 is a wrong signal. where hourly wages are much higher and social security is high, there is a pressure to emigrate that is difficult to manage. here too, with all the flexibility that is needed, safety must not be neglected.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, very shortly. the work of this house will continue after these debates, and i can of course tell you that, in the view of this presidency, of our presidency, this was of course an important debate, a necessary debate, an important debate which is also evident from the level of participation and the very large number of members who wanted to participate and collaborate in this same debate. flexibility means, of course, mobility, and in a globalised world the word 'mobility' is a necessary word, it is a word that means adapting to change. but we are not only talking about mobility, we are also talking about safety, which means a commitment to people, a commitment to workers, to their qualifications, to their training, and also to the protection of the family, to the protection of the quality of work. we are, of course, confident that the guiding principles that we have been able to agree with our social partners, that these guiding principles will, in practice, naturally create the necessary measures, provide the necessary measures that promote change, promote security and make europe more capable of successfully facing the challenges that are placed before us, that globalization places before us. the council will, of course, at its meeting on 5 and 6 december, we hope, adopt these guidelines. i am sure that in the future they will prove to be the right guidelines, the right basis for a policy to make europe stronger and more competitive.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i look at the table and see how fast time is passing, let me mention only two things: firstly, the debate has made it clear, and i would like to stress this again, that flexicurity does not involve imposing a single national model on the whole of the european union, not at all. the differences between the different models are recognised, but i would like to point out that those countries which apply the principles mentioned have a better labour market situation and it is not just the scandinavian countries. the second question i would like to raise is the question of costs. again, you can see that the typical example that is often cited is denmark, whose social protection and health care costs are not above average in the european context. and that's always important to remember. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a short but very intensive debate which has enriched the concept of flexicurity. let me thank the rapporteur in particular.
in writing. an amendment to the report seeks to obtain the european parliament's support for a european minimum wage. i think that approach is fundamentally wrong. the conditions and framework conditions in the different regional labour markets are so different that a european approach would not increase prosperity for people but would cement poverty, unemployment and undeclared work. it also calls for minimum wages to be at least 50-60% of the national average wage. what european country has such a high minimum wage? before such proposals are put to the vote, the proposers should at least make the effort to look at the european reality. the commission is also proposing to increase the minimum wage by 20% in the case of the unemployed. it's the most populist thing i've ever heard. i hope that there will be a clear majority in parliament which will reject such dangerous utopias - which promote unemployment and poverty and undermine the competitiveness of the european economy.
i am not going to go into detail. the european parliament is not a political body. it's a great pleasure to have you here. i would like to thank you very much for accepting the invitation from the european parliament to take part in the debate on the future of europe, a debate which is of great importance to the european parliament. several prime ministers of the european union have already discussed with us the important questions for the future of the union, including guy verhofstadt, romano prodi and jan peter balkenende. we have had the opportunity to hear their views and to discuss them, even at a time when there was great uncertainty about the future of the european union. we're here today to listen to you. and we will conclude this form of debate by a decision of the conference of presidents - these are the group chairmen - with a speech by the swedish prime minister, frederik reinfelt. mr prime minister! spain - i should like to mention this in particular - was the first country to hold a referendum in 2005 on the draft constitutional treaty, with 77% of spaniards voting in favour of the draft treaty. (applause from the centre) we are all the more pleased to welcome you here today, mr prime minister, at a time when we are on the verge of signing the treaty of lisbon, which, after a long period of reflection and also of crisis, has been able to incorporate the substance of the constitutional treaty. as a major country in the european union, spain has always made an important contribution to the european union, not only since its accession to the european union in 1986, but long before that. spain has always shown - and this is true of all the major parties - that it is a country with a deeply european conviction, a country that takes the initiative and is ready to commit itself to the common future of our continent. the next item is the debate on the future of europe with the spanish prime minister, a member of the european council.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we are pleased, mr. prime minister zapatero, that you have come to us. we are also pleased that you have come after the lisbon summit. we're also pleased that you came to the candidate 72 hours after your appointment. we would have been even more pleased if the epp-ed group had been present at least through its group chairman. i can tell you one thing: mr daul missed a good speech by the spanish prime minister! he missed a less than great speech by mayor oreja, so maybe it was good for him that he wasn't there. i say this because the empty seats on the right of this house also say something: when prime minister reinfeldt comes from sweden, who is a member of her party family, the socialist group will be as present as it is today, because you either have courtesy or you do not! they don't have it! (applause from the centre) spain and the spanish people, represented by the prime minister of that country, deserve respect, including from the political families in this house. we pay our respects to this spanish people. you, mr zapatero, have thanked the european parliament. they thanked the european union. it was a great statement that the head of government of spain, a country which suffered for forty years under a ruthless and brutal dictatorship, and which has acquired its freedom and its democratic diversity through integration with europe, that a spanish prime minister should thank the european union for this. it honors you. but the fact that spain has succeeded is due to the spanish people and the spanish democrats. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. thank you to the spanish government! (applause from the centre) spain is a model, as is the iberian region as a whole. this is also true of greece and all those countries which had to overcome fascist dictatorships and found their way to the european union in the mid-1980s and early 1980s. we, as western europeans, who had the freedom to travel to these countries at that time, have the opportunity to compare them as they were in the early and mid-1980s and as they are today. spain is a country that is economically flourishing. a country full of future, a country full of hope, a country with people who have made an enormous contribution to world peace. a country which is economically prosperous, a country which, in terms of its economic capacity, is rightly knocking at the door of the g8 countries. who would have thought that 20 years ago? and why do i say spain is a model? you have also said, mr prime minister, that if the structural policy, if the regional policy of the european union produces the same economic effects in the countries which joined the union on 1 may 2004 as it did in spain, then europe as a whole is heading towards a very bright future. that is why spain is a model for europe. (applause from the centre) mr president, i would like to thank you for your report, and i would like to thank you for your work. spain, like many other countries in the european union, gave up a piece of sovereignty when it adopted the euro. the abandonment of monetary sovereignty is the abandonment of a piece of national sovereignty. but let us imagine that spain still had the peseta as its currency. and let's imagine that the zapatero government had said as its first act that we were withdrawing our troops from iraq, and the american dollar could have played with the peseta. what economic impact could that have had? the abandonment of this piece of sovereignty in the currency has added a piece of independence and sovereignty to spain. that is why spain is a good model. european integration is a strengthening of europe, not a weakening of it! (applause from the centre) we have heard a lot about mr zapatero. i would also like to say a few words on behalf of my group, and above all on behalf of the men, but especially the women, in my group, on the policy of gender equality. there is hardly a head of government in europe who has done more for women's rights than you, mr zapatero. the european parliament also owes you its thanks. (applause) mr zapatero, you are very good at your excellent, modern and progressive policy. it is good for spain and what is good for spain is good for europe. you may proceed, mr president. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
president of the government of spain. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all the speakers for their speeches and the tone of their speeches. i can also say that i was pleased to see the lively debate in this chamber, which i expected, but i am glad that i was able to contribute to a moment of intensity and liveliness, especially through some speeches, some of which i am very grateful for. yes, spain is a grateful country, and grateful to the european union, to the founding fathers, to the great countries like france, germany, italy, who helped us bring democracy to our country, who admitted us to europe and who, then, with their resources, contributed to our development. i am grateful to public figures, statesmen whom i have not mentioned here, such as helmut kohl, mitterrand, palme, who have contributed so much to democracy in spain and to the future, and we are very proud to be able to contribute to this common cause. this appreciation also has a reflection that goes along with what spain has been able to do in these 25 years; perhaps there is no other society in the world that in 25 years has seen so much political, economic transformation, progress in its rights, freedoms and the social situation of its citizens as spain. spain has always been very committed to europe, it has always been very pro-european. we have here representatives of all parties, and representatives of great political quality, serving the european institutions, in the commission, in this parliament, where we have had three presidents of parliament, and also from different cultures and different political ideologies. they have all served very well; i want to pay tribute to those who have represented spain in the european institutions. they have been able to forge a common european culture in a form of political organisation which, to take some account of the latest speeches by the speakers, is without precedent in history. political union, what we call european union, has no precedents or models to look to, because it does not fit into any of the known political categories. that is the greatness of the european union and also the unpredictability of the process of forming a political will, with 27 countries, 27 flags, 27 states, 27 nations, 20 languages and an ideological plurality that has been seen and reflected here in the european parliament. that is why every step forward in the european process is not the result of a country or an ideology, it is not a single colour, it is not an ideological colour, it is not a flag. it is the sum, which has its own flag and a color that is that of coexistence and unity. if anything represents the soul of europe, it is a union of democrats. that is europe: a union of democrats. and a union of democrats is knowing how to move forward with a position that can be as consensual as possible and that respects and integrates and gives equal opportunities even to those who are deeply disagree with what the european union stands for. the greatness of the european union is that it is a club that gives equal opportunities to those who are for europe as to those who do not want europe to move forward. that is the greatness of the european club; that is the greatness, in short, of a union of democrats. the treaty, it has been said here. the perspective we can always adopt may leave us unsatisfied in reaching the objectives we all have, but if this new treaty is a treaty ratified by all and working, it will be a great treaty, not a little treaty. that is at least the position which i think we should adopt today: to give time to time and see what power, what strength it has when it comes to getting things going and whether it is useful in facing the challenges ahead. there has been some talk of ratifying the treaty. it had to be so, because spain was a country that held a consultative referendum on the constitutional treaty, which then went through a process of renegotiation with a treaty nature, in the more classic sense of what the european concept represents. and i have been asked - i do not want to avoid any questions - why we do not put it to a referendum. the first is that the spanish people voted in favour of a constitutional treaty. the treaty we have now approved, pending ratification, the treaty of lisbon, contains many of the aspects which the constitutional treaty contained previously. and then there is another very important factor: there is a broad consensus in our country, between those who agree with the treaty and even the minorities who do not agree, that the treaty should be ratified by parliament. but i'm making a reflection, because it seems important for the future. i do not know whether we will ever be able to do so, but it is an obvious shortcoming of the european union: we have an imperfect system of ratification which has probably never been discussed in depth. in my view, ratification should be common to all countries and, if possible, in one single act and with one single instrument. i am sure that this is difficult today, but it is very desirable, and i hope that in time we can have this model of ratification. in their speeches, some have brought to the table the debate - which has existed since the founding of the union, in its first model of the coal and steel community, then the european economic community - between the european union and the national state, which is often the way to question the entire democratic health of the european union, since many decisions are logically taken through an intergovernmental procedure. i shall briefly state my views on this. first, the national state is a form of political organisation which, historically, succeeds in unifying territories and rationalising public action and subsequently opens the way to democratic systems. and he has accomplished a great historical task. the european union is a form of political organisation which is understood on the basis of the experience of the national state. it's a higher phase of the nation state. it does not reduce the national state, but adds to it, in its classical configuration. because, as the history of political coexistence, of political civilization, of political community, demonstrates, unity often adds. the european union, which is to unite and share, does not diminish or weaken the traditional concept of the nation state. moreover, the stronger the european union, the stronger our states. that is my opinion. and the more capacity the european union has, from its institutions, which need a permanent legitimacy and legitimacy by the political actors and by the governments of the countries... i am opposed to a certain dialectic within the european union, to the idea that brussels should be responsible for many of the problems that exist in our economic, private and social spheres. that is not good for european union integration, for the sake of our citizens, and it is also not true in most cases. i think that history shows us and the present teaches us that the tendency to blame others for what we are not able to carry out normally leads to melancholy and generates no positive stimulus in citizens, none. specific objectives, it was said, and good words. i share this view: there are no deeds without words, and no words without deeds in political action. and i certainly believe that everything that represents a choice for the future must have priorities, political priorities that are credible and that are demonstrable in action and in decisions. they're in the speech. i will summarise the three which i consider most important for the future of the european union. let me say that it is not about treaties, nor about rules of operation, nor about structures, nor about the revision of regulations, nor about the reduction of regulations by the commission, which would be very convenient. they have to do with the political goals of the time in which we live. i share the view of those who said that the european union is the result of the interaction of many ideologies, many values, but the european union will be that regional force which leads the world in values and action if it is right in the priorities of the historical time we have to live in, which is the beginning of the 21st century. the first priority is to face up to what europe knows - because the best experience of this continent is a priceless lesson - that science, creativity, innovation are what have made strong economies and socially integrated countries. today the challenge that science puts on our table, as a challenge and as an opportunity, is climate change and energy sources. i would like to emphasize some of the points made, because it is probably not known or i did not express it well in my speech, that it is true that spain is far from the requirements of the kyoto protocol. it is true, but it is no less true that in 2006, that is to say one year after the government i preside took office, greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 4% with a 4% growth in the economy. we are therefore engaged in a very intense and certainly long-term action in all areas relating, firstly, to alternative and renewable energy sources and, secondly, to what energy saving and energy efficiency mean. twenty years ago, the great debate on how to win the leadership of innovation in europe - which i am sure was held in this parliament on countless occasions - was about tackling the new economy, the information technology economy. the new economy that will lead the future of productive capacity and therefore of their well-being will be the economy that is able to move as quickly as possible to a less dependent coal economy and to an increasingly powerful alternative energy force. that is, from my point of view, the first challenge. and i want to stress that this is not just a challenge but a great opportunity, because there is a great deal of knowledge that will guarantee us many things and there is a great deal of potential for sources of employment, for activities with more added value and, therefore, with good social capacity. secondly, europe must move forward socially. it is true that europe must make social progress, but when you look at the african continent, when you live and feel the latin american continent or a part of the asian continent, you can only say that we are making progress in helping cooperation and development in a decisive and decisive way. because - let me say this publicly - i do not know what the citizens and governments of many african countries would think when they sometimes see the european union engaged in a debate in which it feels itself in a deep crisis. i don't know what they'd think. i say this with regret, but i believe that, fortunately, thanks above all to the work of democracy, our capacity for innovation and the welfare state that was born on this continent, thanks to these three values (work, democracy and the welfare state) we are able to be the continent and the union with greater social protection and a higher level of income and welfare. and for me, increasing social well-being remains a fundamental goal. there is no incompatibility between an open economy and a welfare state with social rights for citizens; indeed, there is complementarity. social policies do not consume wealth. social policies help to create wealth, they help to create conditions so that all citizens can participate, from education with equal opportunities, to the reconciliation of family and work life, which social policy demands, to job stability, which is the best incentive for productivity, in the task of helping to create wealth. social policies with productivity and citizenship objectives: that is a possible model that works. and of course, the most transformative is the full inclusion and full equality of women in all work and social spheres. spain has changed a lot because of democracy, firstly, in these 30 years, but, secondly, what has changed spain the most has been the incorporation of women into the working life, into the social life, into the civic life of a country. that is what has changed us the most and what has changed us the best, by the way, because it has incorporated values of solidarity and progress. and i want to remind you that i have a government of equal composition between men and women; none of the people here are from the government. finally, i would like to point out that the third objective we have, alongside the challenge of climate change, is the extension of social welfare and the affirmation of social rights, which must grow as a sign of european identity that has enabled us to reach where we have reached and to be a reference in other countries. the third major objective is to ensure, to reinforce coexistence, in a very unique way, bearing in mind that we are on a continent which for the last 20 or 30 years has been experiencing rapid demographic change in many countries. that coexistence means integration, it means absolute and total belligerence against any manifestation of racism and xenophobia. that means coexistence. europe cannot betray any of its values, and if there is any essential value in democratic europe, it is respect for cultural and religious diversity and, of course, a radical rejection of any manifestation of xenophobia or racism. that leaves us in the gutter as europeans, if ever there were such temptations. a coexistence that must be accompanied by a great tolerance. the extension of individual and civil rights is not only the best expression of freedom - what greater freedom than to respect the religious, cultural and political orientations of all, or the orientations when forming a couple or entering into a marriage, what greater expression of freedom than that - but also of another value with which, of course, from my conception, europe has to be identified. if europe is the union of democrats, as i said before, europe cannot be just freedom, europe must be freedom and equality. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, prime minister. you will not be speaking again, but you will still be here to listen to the other speakers. the bureau of the european parliament is about to meet, so i should like to thank you for your visit and for your speech. i would like to express my gratitude to you and to spain - to all the governments which have contributed to europe in free spain - for this european contribution. and whoever will govern spain in the future, we are confident, based on the experience of the last two decades, that spain will always remain true to its european vocation. i would like to thank you again for your visit.
mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i wanted to congratulate mr schulz. he has managed to get his socialist friends to pat him on the back, with a stupid and i would even say stupid polemic against the epp-ed group. shortly after he stopped speaking, the socialists were as empty as we were. i could now assume that the socialists only listen to their great leaders, but are not interested in the debate. i'm not doing this because we should treat each other with respect. i think mr schulz should apologise. i wonder, in order to give some momentum to the debate, what have we really learned today? we have learned today, for one thing, that the spanish are a european people. i think i can say that this people was the same when prime minister aznar spoke. on the other hand, we have heard a speech on domestic policy today, in preparation for the elections. i do not think it is the role of the european parliament to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debate is only worthwhile if we go into the concrete details. and my colleague dupont is right, of course. the fact that spain has legalised 700 000 immigrants was clearly condemned by president sarkozy here in this european parliament last week. it would have been interesting if we had learned today why there is obviously a dispute here in the european council. it would have been interesting to hear how we actually deal with immigration. we know that we have massive illegal immigration and we know that there are clear european return policies on the table that are blocked in the european council, that are not going forward there. i think we cannot explain to our citizens why we are describing the great, noble values of europe here and why we are not making progress in the european council - where you are also sitting, mr prime minister - in our daily life. that is why i say: european discourse is important, describing european basic values is important, but european action is more important.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. tomorrow parliament will decide whether the charter of fundamental rights will be legally binding in the future. for me, as a former member of the convention on fundamental rights, this will be a very special vote, not only because i had the honour of helping to draft the most modern european document on fundamental rights, but also because i - like many others - fought for seven long years to make it legally binding. the charter of fundamental rights is based on the indivisibility of civil, political and social human rights. this is of fundamental importance to me as a left-wing member of parliament from berlin who lived in the gdr until the revolution. i believe that the clear 'yes' to the charter is the consequence of the essential critical examination of one's own history, of the massive violation of fundamental and human rights under real socialism. your country, mr prime minister, plays an important role in the eu. the spanish people, in particular, by voting in favour of the constitutional treaty at the time, made a major contribution to ensuring that the charter of fundamental rights could not be ignored. you can and should take that up. all people have high hopes for europe. they expect it to take care of their daily concerns and needs. they want europe to work from the content, not from the melody, as jean-claude juncker called it, to become a europe of the workers, a true europe of solidarity. the european union must therefore fight social and wage dumping decisively. a living wage for all, that's what we need. the social question is indeed crucial for the future of europe!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am surprised, commissioner, that you have acted as if nothing had gone wrong in the negotiations, as if the commission had done a wonderful job. we have pointed out here in parliament on several occasions in recent months that the commission has overburdened the negotiations with the acp states. we have pointed out that an agreement on goods is sufficient to meet wto requirements and that an agreement on the singapore issues is not necessarily necessary. the commission did not want to hear this criticism, it wiped out our criticism. the change of course to interim agreements on goods only, which you have now suddenly, but much too late, made, is an admission of failure to your own lack of foresight. it would have been good if you had admitted, with a self-critical tone, that you had followed the wrong negotiating strategy. the second major mistake was the way the negotiations were conducted. it was clearly negotiated as a free trade agreement of some kind, not as a development framework agreement. the unanimous complaint of the acp countries that they have been put under pressure is a sign of a miserable negotiating climate. we heard that very clearly in kigali. the commission must be told that in negotiations sound is also music. now is not the time to make the next big mistake. we need a solution for those non-ldcs who do not see themselves as able to sign now. we must not allow trade relations to be disrupted. we need a proposal for a transitional solution for 2008!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the commission's negotiating strategy was a disaster and completely wrong. it was set out in the 'global europe' strategy, which stated that it was all about market access for the large, globally active european companies. i have always wondered what this approach has to do with partnership agreements. partnership means something else, partnership means respect for the country which must undertake economic and social development. partnership agreements require respect for the principle that the disbursement of development aid must not be linked to the conclusion of wpas. economic partnership agreements must take account of the development of the weakest and most vulnerable countries. no country, if it does not sign up by the time the agreement is concluded, can be in a worse position than it is now. this is a fair partnership, this is a solidarity with each other. the commission was a long way from that! i think it's good that she's now starting to pursue a different strategy, under pressure from many people. i am, however, sceptical about its approach to mercosur, asean and the andean countries. that's still the old way of thinking. we europeans tell you where it goes and either take it or leave it. this, i repeat, has nothing to do with partnership. i was quite angry and appalled at what happened here today, that we could not take the kigali resolution, which all the members who were in kigali had agreed to, as a basis. parliament should have supported this delegation by its consent. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it will be important to use the coming weeks to get the agreement started in a way that satisfies all parties. it is an agreement of enormous proportions and enormous symbolic significance. it is not just a question of negotiating a free trade agreement for the regions and states of africa and linking them more closely to the european area, but also of making this agreement a development round, fighting poverty and actually showing that the european union is able to negotiate an agreement in such a way that african states feel comfortable and are connected to the european union. there are several points which are important. you yourself have spoken of them and you have mentioned some. it must be the case that the regional agreements actually help the countries. it must be the case that the non-lcds actually get a deal and are not left out. and it must be so that all countries can develop in the right direction. the agreement in the form of a two-step approach that you have proposed must also guarantee that no one is left out and that it is, in effect, a path in the right direction, which is not guaranteed today. mr markov, we should take the opportunity that we have of not adopting the resolution tomorrow to meet in this house. we have enough in common to make this work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs on behalf of my group for the good and constructive cooperation they have shown. i think we have always been able to reach a good agreement on the matter, and i must also congratulate the two rapporteurs on their ability to reach an agreement with the council quickly. for what good would a long quarrel with the council have done us? we could have lost a whole year! i'm not sure. i think that the way in which we have progressed in this matter in one reading, despite everything, is a great success for parliament, the commission and the council. i would like to make just two or three points. i hope, commissioner, that you will pass this on to the european railway agency. we are giving the european railway agency greater responsibility in setting safety standards and in setting the criteria for interoperability. i hope that the european railway agency will use these opportunities to the benefit of our industry, that it will quickly create new standards, that it will be efficient and practical. i also hope - and i will return to mr paolo costa if he is listening - that the more tasks the european railway agency takes on, the less the national railway agencies interfere and the less the bureaucracy. if the european bureaucracy is to work, we need less than 25 national bureaucracies. we also want to save the european rail industry from duplication of work and application. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the member states fail to reach a decision within the mutual recognition deadlines, their approval shall be deemed to have been granted. it is only by means of this authorization function that we can exert pressure on the national authorities not to postpone the matter again and again. so let us work together to ensure that by mutual approval of locomotives and rolling stock we save costs, increase availability and thus give an additional boost to european freight transport in particular.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. these three reports will make a great leap forward in the integration of the european rail network. safety standards will be harmonised and monitored by the european railway agency in future. the long overdue mutual recognition of railway vehicles within eu member states will be secured. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs very warmly for this, because without their good cooperation we would not have achieved this result. the sad times are finally over. to obtain a licence to operate a registered locomotive in another member state often took three years and could cost up to eur 10 million. it is not only in the eu-27 that this has been a provocation to the detriment of environmentally friendly railways. in future, the registration of a rail vehicle will apply to all 27 eu countries unless a member state objects within three months and explains why it cannot be operated for safety reasons. neither the colour of a fire extinguisher nor the size of the side mirror can prevent its use. the burden of proof is reversed. yesterday the manufacturer had to prove his recklessness by laborious small-scale work, tomorrow any safety concerns must be articulated in an understandable way. the european railway agency, whose powers are extended, will decide whether they are eligible. if the three-month period has passed without objection, the authorisation shall apply to the entire railway network of the eu. this will allow railway vehicles to be produced in greater numbers and at lower costs. the german federal railway office in particular resisted the restriction of its powers to the end. it is thanks to the tenacity of all the political groups that a viable compromise has been found and that the report by josu ortuondo larrea can now be adopted by consensus and in first reading by the commission, the council and parliament.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are discussing today a pre-negotiated common position of parliament and the council on the revision of the eu's television directive. we can regard this as a great success for parliament, the council and the commission. i would therefore like to begin by thanking my colleagues from all the groups and committees involved, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs from the committee on culture, henri weber, ignasi guardans cambó and helga trüpel. they have helped us to present a success, a joint balance sheet. we thank commissioner reding commissioner of the year 2007, congratulations! for the determination and cooperation with which she presented the proposal for the revision of the directive and worked with us. i would like to thank the council, the german presidency, which led to the adoption of the common position, and the portuguese presidency, which has defended this common position with great determination and has enabled us to discuss it here today and decide tomorrow. television without frontiers is crucial for freedom of information and media pluralism in europe. we therefore welcome the fact that we have modernised this tv directive in a timely manner. we have reached common objectives for traditional and new television, regardless of the platform, on the basis of the country of origin principle. for traditional television, this means in particular the right to short-term coverage throughout europe, the guarantee of improved access for disabled people, improved control of advertising aimed at children and independent national media supervision. but we also improved the financial basis for commercial broadcasting by not increasing advertising - still a maximum of 12 minutes per hour - but introducing more flexible regulations and - a difficult step, but one we have taken - enabling product placement so that private television providers can actually offer free-to-air television in the future in competition with google and other competitors. it was the european parliament which worked towards the adequate transparency directives on this issue. the principle for modern television on the internet, as of tomorrow's decision and subsequent national implementation, is that television remains an economic and cultural asset, regardless of technology. and that is the european model that we have secured with this directive on audiovisual media services, as it will be called in future. internet television and mobile television should in future be regarded in europe not only as an economic good but also as a key guarantee of freedom of information and pluralism of opinion. that is why it is so important that we have launched this modernised directive in time. it is timely to say that the next round of discussions on the telecoms package, which has already begun, as well as the discussions on online content, will take place against the background of this clarified legal framework for traditional and new audiovisual media services. i therefore ask you, with a view to tomorrow's vote, to give a large majority for this progress in european media policy!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in the re-consultation of the new version of the television directive, which will now be called the audiovisual media services directive, we have also always had a cultural policy debate on cultural diversity and the maintenance of quality television. the final decision in parliament is the beginning of the legislative process. we are therefore already looking ahead. i call on the member states to make use of the subsidiarity principle of the directive and to make full use of the scope for greater cultural and media diversity. this concerns in particular more rights for independent producers, the contribution of non-linear services such as video-on-demand providers to support european productions and a restriction of product placement opportunities. the public broadcasting sector in europe in particular should do without product placement. in the context of the recasting of the directive we have had a very fundamental debate about how much market opening we want and where exactly we want to regulate. in our view, the argument in favour of opening up to the market, and in particular to the advertising market, has been lost. the green group will therefore not be voting for the recast of the television directive tomorrow. the many new opportunities for more advertising, whether in sports programmes, series or feature films, will lead to a loss of quality in european media. the public service broadcasting sector in particular will therefore have an even more important role to play in the future. it must be enabled by national legislators to fulfil its educational and information mission fully, including through new distribution channels such as mobile tv or internet television. we must therefore, at european level, also in the context of the revision of the telecommunications directives, create the conditions for the future increase in mobile or internet reception of broadcasting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the compromise that ruth hieronymi has worked out - with the help of her colleagues, of course - is one that i wholeheartedly support. i would like to thank our colleague very much, it was a very difficult piece of work and she has done it wonderfully. i think that the compromise actually contains most of what we wanted at first reading. we know that the rapid development of technology has overtaken the old directive. i was involved in the first directive. we have something new here, new transmission possibilities, new on-demand services alongside traditional television; we need this directive. it was important to me that the country of origin principle be respected and that the brief be preserved. the rules on advertising have been made more flexible. i think it is right that the 12 minutes per hour has not been exceeded. movies and news will continue to be shown uninterrupted. one of the key points was - as you know, commissioner - product placement. with heavy hearts, many of us have now agreed to the compromise. but the good thing is that there is a ban and then the exceptions to that ban, which have already been mentioned. i think if they're put in the right place, we're not going to get american proportions. i also welcome the restriction of advertising in children's programmes. this compromise will enable the audiovisual sector to face the major changes and to adapt to technological and market conditions. the compromise will help the audiovisual sector to be more competitive in the future. this compromise is the best balance between media pluralism and cultural diversity at the moment and offers the opportunity to develop a more competitive european audiovisual industry. once again, commissioner, and above all to our colleague ruth, i would like to thank you very much.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a long process is now coming to an hopefully successful end. i would therefore like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to all those who have contributed to the joint solution, the shadow rapporteurs from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, mr podestà, mr lehtinen, mrs riis-jørgensen, the chairman of the committee, mrs aline mccarthy, and the secretariat responsible, the staff of the rapporteurs from the libe committee, mr alexander alvaro, and the other rapporteurs, the presidency of the council, represented by mr antónio delicado and his colleagues, and last but not least the commission, represented by mr michel ayral and his colleagues, who were motivated by their boss, mr verheugen. i learned a lot in the process. i learned what role lobbyists can really play, how some of them worked constructively on common solutions, but how others deliberately tried to prevent this by half-truths and misinformation. from the outset, i was aware that it was not so easy to strike the right balance between the requirements of a functioning internal market and the legitimate security interests of citizens in the event of illegal use of weapons and the good, understandable expectations of hunters and marksmen for the largely undisturbed pursuit of their hobby. mr verheugen has already mentioned that we wanted to use the experience gained from the application of directive 477/91, to remedy the shortcomings identified and to transpose the un arms protocol, which the commission signed in 2002, into community law. we have therefore had to introduce certain articles to prevent illegal use, trade and acquisition. this compromise takes account of these requirements. i admit that i would have liked to have had more clear rules here and there, for example in the sense of better legislation or simplification, as well as the reduction of the categories of weapons to two across europe, as is already the case in two thirds of the member states. i have not found a majority for this. but overall i am very satisfied with the compromise reached. let us consider that we are thus implementing a partially harmonised gun law in 27 member states. we are still dealing with very different national gun rights. this fact of partial harmonization will facilitate legal trade and will also contribute to greater security. no one can guarantee 100% safety against abuse. but we should feel obliged, as we have heard before, to prevent such tragic events as in germany, finland and belgium. i do not want to go into the details of the new rules now. you know them. mr verheugen has already mentioned some of them. i think it is very good that we want to introduce a computerized gun register in the member states by 2014. this will improve the exchange of information and make it much easier, if not possible, to trace abuses. the age of the web is also taken into account, and the rules apply to online trade as well as to direct trade. in conclusion, let me make a few comments which will help you to make your decision and which take account of the arguments of those who oppose an improved european gun law. the directive does not apply to collectors of arms and ammunition, nor to public services or cultural and historical institutions. the provisions shall not be applied retroactively. we are proposing national arms registers rather than pan-european ones. although one exists for cows, it seems to be a little more difficult to handle with guns. we are not opposed in principle to manufacturers, dealers, sports shooters or hunters who handle their special commodity weapons responsibly. i have heard that there were very strong reservations and emotional discussions in the debate on the origin directive in the 1990s. the directive was later considered to be very helpful, practical and effective. i am sure that we will succeed in this with the joint compromise you have before you. i'm counting on your support.
draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is not much to add to what mrs kallenbach has said, except that i am pleased to thank both the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, arlene mccarthy, my colleague on the internal market committee, gisela kallenbach, with whom i have worked very closely and in confidence during this period, and not least the commission, represented in this case by commissioner verheugen. we have rarely worked so closely together. what's one minute to say when thirty seconds are spent in thank-you notes? in essence, we have insisted that the european union has sent a clear signal that by regulating the legal arms trade it is also fighting illegal arms transfers and arms misuse. we have made it clear that the european union will not tolerate any form of crime being committed on its territory by means of weapons, by means of functions that have not been incorporated into a legal process, let alone that we would tolerate people abusing the rights they have been given by the eu. i would like to say to all those who, like me, have received numerous e-mails today from hunters and sport shooters who accuse us as the european union of restricting their freedoms: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the european union has acted to protect its citizens, not the other way around!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if we look at the starting point from which we have finally arrived at this dossier, it is fair to say that we have succeeded in bringing a politically highly sensitive issue back to a factual basis and in finding a solution in cooperation with the libe committee, which on the one hand allows for better control of weapons throughout the european union, but without forgetting the legitimate interests of sports shooters and hunters who are afraid of too much bureaucracy and of too heavy and burdensome registration obligations. i am very grateful to you, commissioner verheugen, and also to the chairman of the committee on the internal market, arlene mccarthy, and of course to our shadow rapporteur, who has worked very hard with the rapporteur and her colleagues on this dossier for months. this was not easy for the various groups. but i think the result is a compromise which could not have been otherwise in view of the situation in the council. the question will be whether the commission is able to come up with a proposal on the trade-related part, which is still before us in the area of the un protocol, which will be generally well received in the council and will make the work of parliament a little easier. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr verheugen, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr verheugen, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr verheugen, for his excellent report. so i thank all those who were able to keep the ball flat at the end of this highly explosive subject. i believe that a solid solution could be found here for all parties involved on the basis of compromise. i hope that we will be able to accept this compromise by a large majority tomorrow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we should concentrate on the subject of trade and climate change in this draft report. the rapporteur has unfortunately failed in his first draft to develop positive economically and socially acceptable proposals on how we can tackle this problem. i think that the rapporteur and the report have too often confused what is trade and what is transport. the problem is not world trade, not the global division of labour, not that trade is helping regions that were poor or that are poor to get ahead, but that our transport is not yet efficient and ecological enough. the problem is that because of poverty or low wealth in certain regions of the world, many people and countries cannot afford the necessary and ecologically and economically sound climate protection. it is only by integrating these regions into global trade that we will be able to ensure that people there can afford to take care of the environment and climate. people who struggle to survive every day don't think about protecting the environment or the climate. only through effective world trade will we be able to sell our modern technologies to the whole world and thus contribute to climate protection. so it's not less trade that's the answer to the problem, but in my view more trade is the answer to the problems of trade and climate change. i am therefore very grateful to my colleague, mr georgios papastamkos, for bringing a number of aspects to the committee's deliberations. i am very grateful that the alde group has tabled a number of proposals in this direction for the plenary tomorrow. i would like to conclude by saying that we have unfortunately made a number of points in this report where we have misrepresented our social market economy. we should find a way to remove such spikes against our economic order, which has brought prosperity and social security to so many people. i would be grateful if the groups could show some creativity here so that our group can also agree.
the next item is the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for 2006.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we greens welcome the work of the court of auditors, we need its information, but we regret that for years things have not improved, because these results are damaging to the reputation of the european union. we do not want any more consolation, but we want to see effective action at last. mr kallas has been rather conciliatory today, but after the court of auditors' report became public he called it too harsh and attacked the member states too. this is not a wise move on the part of the commission, because it is politically responsible and we expect the commission to take up this responsibility and finally make improvements. we greens have serious doubts about whether we can make the budgetary discharge for 2006 and it may well be that what we have just heard has political consequences for individual commissioners. the commission's budgetary policy is not a budgetary policy, but a budgetary policy.
mr president, mr weber, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. court of auditors reports are always interesting and important. this is particularly true in europe, where the economy and efficiency of european funds have always been the subject of particular attention by citizens. this report rightly focuses on the use of funds in the member states. in fact, there is still a lot to be done here, particularly with the structural funds. however, this should not be allowed to obscure the spending practices of the institutions themselves, particularly the commission and the council. the commission's management of directly managed expenditure is particularly amenable to improvement. the commission is not only the guardian of the treaties, it must also be a model in financial management. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is no longer in keeping with the real intentions of agricultural support. the court of auditors continues to have a wide field of activity in the field of building policy, whether it is the enlarged european court of justice building in luxembourg or the council and parliament buildings in brussels. the court of auditors is right to point the finger consistently, especially in the case of non-existent or incorrect tenders. it is not possible to be in the right if the court of justice has to pay but is not involved in the negotiation and award of the contract. i would remind the commission of the reply to my written question of 2 august. it simply makes a bad impression in general when every small municipality in europe has to make a europe-wide call for tenders for contracts worth more than eur 200 000, but the european institutions themselves do not make a call for tenders for contracts worth millions. our citizens do not understand this. i would also like to address the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. the report we are asking for should be presented here too. i would also ask the council to ensure that the increase in operational expenditure under the cfsp is not absorbed into administrative expenditure.
mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, members of the court of auditors, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen! we would like to express our sincere appreciation to the court of auditors for a better report and ask you to continue along this path. we have not yet reached the end of the road here. the more comprehensible your reports are, the better you will help us and the better you will help the commission to implement all that is to be done in accordance with your conclusions. so please, keep going. we think that what has been done so far has been very successful. we also congratulate the commission. what has been achieved in agriculture is a real milestone and it shows that if you work hard for years to improve things, you can do it. the structural funds are now being discussed. because we have to get this good again, at least get close to the agricultural sector. we are prepared to have the necessary discussions. we don't want anything that's impossible. that's why we're talking about the tolerable risk. we see the commission's problems. but we also see that we can only make progress if we support the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want to encourage you to make a lasting impact here. we need to move forward here. unfortunately, we have no one to contact on behalf of the council. but we shall take the matter up again in the appropriate place. we can't go on like this. we can't stand here next year with the same balance sheet. we've made a fool of ourselves long enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the court of auditors for allowing the revision of parliament's 2006 budget to be made possible in respect of members and the secretariat's allowance. this problem of 2006 the proof of secretarial allowances for all but six colleagues has now been solved. mr president, that is a message we must also take to the european taxpayer. we are interested in solving the old cases and will do so together with the parliament's administration. we will find a solution here, and that solution will be no different from what we expect of others.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i welcome the proposals to appoint seven members to the court of auditors and can only reiterate the importance of the work of the court of auditors for the protection of the financial interests of the eu and the member states. the court of auditors plays a prominent role in this area and has built up a reputation for doing so. he is fearless, fair, professional and independent in his work. but of course it always depends on the individuals, because they are the ones who support an institution. and since the proposals come from the member states, my remarks are actually more directed towards them. the relatively high age of the candidates in these appointments is to blame. i think that in these positions, professional and life experience is crucial, and in this field you don't have that at 25, 30, 35 years old. the criticism of the proportion of women seems to me to be justified. it's very low. but again, i have to say, quality must come before sex. it is very important to me that a team and a team spirit be developed and that close links be sought with the national courts of audit. there should be cooperation, but no dependence. the question has been hotly debated recently: does the court of auditors not have too many members? that is now decided by the reform treaty. but there is still a concern - and it is justified - whether 27 members can still work efficiently and optimally. the number and the profile must be correct. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. and for future restructuring plans, which certainly exist, i would like to give an example already now: the federal court of auditors in my country, which has a large number of members - i think there are over 50 - but who, as heads of departments, are fully involved in the audit business with full judicial independence. whatever the future of the court of auditors, it is and will remain our most important ally in budgetary control.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the epp-ed group is satisfied with the outcome of this dossier. this is mainly due to the fact that the rapporteur, with extraordinary negotiating skills, a great deal of patience and great perseverance, managed to negotiate and reach a compromise which was finally agreed by all in the legal affairs committee. i would therefore like to thank our rapporteur in particular. the result also made it clear that it was right to wait. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that article 5 is the heart of this regulation and we are very pleased that it has succeeded in returning to what was originally stated in the convention, namely a balance between the interests of consumers and the interests of providers, as regards the content of article 5. we know that if the commission's proposal had been adopted, it would have led to significant disadvantages for internet commerce, for small and mediumsized enterprises and, consequently, also for consumers in terms of the offer. we have always criticised the commission for not carrying out an impact assessment in this case, despite the interinstitutional agreement of december 2003. we are, however, confident that this is the last time this has happened and that such a breakdown will not be repeated in future in the commission's legislative proposals. finally, i would just like to say that the whole debate on consumer contracts, the country of destination principle, the country of origin principle, the relationship between service providers, suppliers and consumers has, on the other hand, only once more proved what parliament has repeatedly said: we need an optional instrument for the law of contract for crossborder trade in the long term, and we are glad that this request is also reflected in the recitals to the motion for a resolution which we have on the table.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think it is remarkable and successful that we have achieved a result in the sensitive trade and possession of firearms by this compromise between the imco and libe committees, the council and the commission in a first reading. i would like to thank all those involved.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all compromise proposals are in block 1, and all other proposals are thereby terminated. the european parties can finally take part in the european elections with this regulation. you think that's normal, but it wasn't. i hope that with this new regulation the ten political families will really bring a new dynamic to the next european elections in 2009. thank you to everyone who worked with us. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this decision will pave the way for the solemn proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights by all three institutions in strasbourg on 12 december. i would like to point out the important amendment no 3, which i support, namely the call for the united kingdom and poland to make every effort once again to reconsider and correct the opt-out. on fundamental rights and freedoms, the eu must be able to speak with one voice, both internally and externally. amendment no 3 is therefore very important!
in writing. after lengthy discussions, we, as rapporteurs of the groups in this house, have reached a compromise to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed with regard to the implementing powers conferred on the commission. this compromise was also agreed with the council of ministers. it takes full account of the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt the draft budget for the year 2000 in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 149 of the treaty. on the other hand, the draft report from the committee on the environment was corrected and put into a workable and realistic text: all amendments aimed at abusing the new comitology procedure in such a way as to change the essential content of the existing laws on gmos bypassing it were rejected. we cannot afford to do without green genetic engineering. on the contrary, gmos are essential for our future. in the light of the climate debate, it should have long been clear to the ideologically-charged green politicians that we need to improve renewable raw materials for the production of biomass and energy through biotechnological methods. our arable land simply isn't enough to produce enough conventional energy crops. we must also prevent competition between food and energy crops! licensed gmos are safe, and ideology doesn't get you fat!
in writing. i voted against this report because it is a collection of contradictory statements which do not draw a clear line on any crucial social policy issue. you can make all sorts of inferences from this. this gives the commission a free hand to act without a proper legal basis. i also reject the notion of 'flexicurity' as an artificial value proposition.
in writing. i support the report on a new eu tourism policy. it shows the scope for eu action in the field of tourism. the eu does not have global competence, but it can take action to promote tourism. this will help to strengthen the competitiveness of this sector, which is important for the economy and especially for labour market policy, at eu level. i am particularly concerned about the promotion of sustainable tourism, which takes account of ecological, economic and social factors in equal measure. sustainable tourism is a prerequisite for the development and maintenance of tourist activities and a crucial factor in the preservation and enhancement of our cultural and natural heritage. the protection of the natural heritage is essential to the success of this economically important sector and enables european tourist regions to compete with international competition. we must also remember that the eu always has a showcase function. our example is being imitated in many different areas in many regions of the world. that is why we have a great responsibility. i would therefore ask all colleagues from tourist regions in particular to support the objective of sustainability!
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the alain lipietz report on ‘trade and climate change’ at the november mini-plenary session in brussels. the report has merit, and it addresses many of the concerns we all share. however, i have decided to vote against some of the amendments and paragraphs because i believe that global warming has to be addressed through sustainable measures which do not have an adverse effect on world economic growth, or the long-term prospects of europe’s social model. i am very sensitive to the issue of climate change. the european union has taken the lead in proposing far-reaching solutions on how to tackle climate change. i believe that europe’s proposals have become the benchmark for any future discussion, and believe they are compatible with our economic model. i believe that global trade has been beneficial to the world economy, but at the same time i acknowledge that more needs to be done, especially in the transport sector, to reduce harmful emissions. but world trade as such should not be distorted.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 29 november 2007.
on 1 december two members of the spanish security forces were shot dead by the terrorist organisation eta in capbreton, france. a young spanish police officer, raúl centeno, 24, died instantly, and a second police officer, fernando trapero, 23, was seriously injured and died last wednesday. i would like to express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims on behalf of all of you, ladies and gentlemen. i would also like to send a message of solidarity to the spanish people, the spanish authorities, the democratic institutions of the country and, in particular, the security forces. the european parliament condemns any use of force as a means of achieving objectives. terrorism is an attack on freedom and democracy. the fight against terrorism must be fought and eliminated by all means available to the rule of law. there can be no justification for terror. we cannot afford to be weak in the fight against terrorism. the terrorist threat will never succeed in bringing democracy to its knees! i am sure we can all agree on these principles. thank you. thank you. (applause from the centre)
the 35 romanian members will be the voice of the romanian citizens and represent their interests in the european parliament. as president of the european parliament, i wish the new members - and many of them are already known to us from their previous work - every success in the next year and a half of their mandate. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the members of the romanian parliament who have been observers since september 2005 and members of the european parliament since 1 january this year. i thank you for your tireless work and commitment to european unity. (applause from the centre) 13 of the first meps to be sent to the european parliament have been re-elected, and i hope that they will help their new colleagues to integrate fully into the work of the parliament very quickly, so that together they can contribute to the success of the european project for the benefit of their constituents. the list of these members will be published in the minutes of today's meeting. once again, a very warm welcome to you, ladies and gentlemen from romania. for details of the composition of parliament, see minutes.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
he was the beneficiary of a mistake i made. i had read ppe-de by mistake instead of pse, which is of course not allowed. that is why two representatives of the socialist group are now speaking.
the president is always pleased when the chamber is well-stocked, and especially on such occasions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the duma elections on 2 december have once again shown that no surprises are to be expected in russia. this has already been done in advance, for example by massive changes in electoral legislation, the targeted disruption and intimidation of the opposition, the imprisonment and elimination of potential opponents such as khodorkovsky or the repeated arrests of garry kasparov. we are not impressed with the outcome of the "united russia". the putin party wins, the democracy loses. this questionable success is reinforced by the fact that no party critical of the government entered parliament. for europe's relations with russia, these elections are not a sign of a common basis based on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. this discouraging dress rehearsal does not bode well for the march 2008 presidential elections, but it also shows us how important our values must be.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw attention to the situation of the bulgarian art historian martina baleva and her german colleague from the free university of berlin, ulf brunnbauer. both are facing death threats and incitement campaigns in connection with and as a result of a scientific work on a painting, in particular by the television station skat tv and the radical party ataka. the latter, at the end of her european election campaign, held up a poster in public, a banner that read: 'baleva on the scaffold! the german jew on the stake!' the criminal complaint filed by the bulgarian prosecutor's office for public incitement to murder has not been processed since june. for security reasons, mrs. baleva is now in germany, the tv station has put a bounty on her head. the bulgarian state is not reacting, and that is unworthy of a member state and unacceptable!
normally the president does not comment on what speakers have said, but on my list it says ‘eur 170’ and not ‘eur 170 million’, so i am happy that the united kingdom has nothing to criticise in this case! (laughter)
member of the commission. mr president, on the basis of the agreed texts, member states will now have to establish marine strategies for their marine waters. such strategies will begin with an assessment of the status of marine waters and their existing impacts and pressures and will develop targets to find good environmental status. the member states will establish monitoring programmes and will then elaborate, as from 2015, programmes and measures necessary to achieve the objectives. this series of steps will be taken again every six years on a cyclical basis. a number of key elements have been included in the overall compromise package that is now proposed. most importantly, the objective of the directive is now clear and ambitious, as member states are required to take the necessary measures to achieve good environmental status in the marine environment by the year 2020 at the latest. the legislators have agreed on a definition of good environmental status, including a series of associated descriptors, which will have to be met. a revised timetable has now been agreed, which in fact is more demanding than what was included in the commission’s original proposal, but at the same time providing a sufficient time for taking appropriate action at each step. exceptions and derogations, including disproportionate costs, have been better qualified. member states will have to establish marine-protected areas to meet their objectives under this directive in accordance with the international commitments of the community and the member states. action will be required in the context of each marine region, and, therefore, to develop marine strategies will involve strong cooperation with and within regional sea conventions. the implementation of this directive will, in fact, require this enhanced coordination. in this context, i would like to recall the importance given by parliament during all the negotiations to important regional processes. i would particularly like to mention the baltic sea action plan, which was adopted in the context of the helsinki convention. as highlighted by parliament, this integrated action plan is a useful first example and a resource that will facilitate progress in the implementation of the directive. such an integrated approach must be an important component in all the actions that have been undertaken by the different regional sea conventions to protect the european seas – the mediterranean, the north atlantic, the black sea and the baltic. to conclude, the commission is very pleased with the outcome of negotiations. the commission can accept the proposed compromise amendments in full.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the compromise on the air quality directive is first and foremost the result of successful teamwork. i should like to stress that at the outset. i would like to thank in particular my colleagues who have been actively involved in the drafting of this directive, in particular the rapporteurs, mrs anja weisgerber of the epp-ed group and mrs dorette corbey of the pse group, but also mrs satu hassi of the green group. i would also like to thank the commission for its valuable assistance and the portuguese presidency of the council, which, as an open and constructive negotiating partner, made a decisive contribution to the successful outcome. the compromise lays a solid foundation for the future eu air quality policy. the new directive balances ambitious targets and thresholds with the necessary flexibility for implementation in the member states. in addition, the focus is on exposure and the need to address the sources of pollution. let me first outline the main points of the compromise. the most important progress made in the revision of the air quality legislation is the regulation of the finest particles pm2,5. the smallest particles, which come exclusively from anthropogenic sources, are the ones which all experts consider to be the greatest risks to human health. pm2.5 - particles of fine dust less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter - which are not visible to the naked eye, can penetrate the lungs and cause serious respiratory illnesses in the long term. it is therefore overdue to put the smallest particles at the centre of european air quality policy. in the united states of america, a strict limit value for pm2.5 has been in place since 1997. the us is a decade ahead of the eu in this area of legislation. but with all due respect to american air quality policy, i would like to point out that we cannot simply copy what the americans have been doing for years. we have completely different conditions in europe, particularly in terms of population density and transport. the call by environmental groups for the immediate introduction of a strict limit value for pm2,5 is not realistic. the data situation in europe is not robust and the experience of measurements is insufficient not a good basis for a premature introduction of a limit value. the council and parliament agreed from the outset to regulate pm2,5 in two stages. the first is to set a target value from 2010 and the second is to set a limit value of 25 micrograms per cubic metre from 2015. the commission has always been in favour of a stricter value for pm2.5 despite the opposition of the council. it is therefore parliament's merit that we are today proposing to lower the limit value for pm2.5 to 20 micrograms per cubic metre in a second stage in 2020! in addition to a target and limit value for pm2,5, an exposure concentration obligation of 20 micrograms for member states shall be introduced in 2015. this is aimed at reducing background concentrations and will have a positive impact on the protection of human health, particularly in urban centres. the european parliament's proposal for reducing pm2.5 concentrations by 2020 has also been successful. it is differentiated by member state and more attention is paid to intermediate consumption. on pm10: the majority of parliament at first reading supported an ambitious annual limit for pm10 which, among other things, is more closely correlated with the current daily limit. the position of the council and the commission to leave the existing limit values untouched has been confirmed in the negotiations. with a three-year extension for pm10, from the entry into force of the new directive, municipalities that, due to their geographical location or meteorological conditions, have not been able to comply with the limit values despite all demonstrable efforts, will be granted an extension until 2012. while improving the quality of our ambient air will continue to be a major challenge for the eu in the future, i would like to highlight three points that i believe should be taken into account in the implementation of this directive and in the 2013 revision of the legislation. first, the pollution of our air has decreased dramatically in recent decades. a new study by the european environment agency shows that in the eu, the reduction of particulate matter emissions was around 50% between 1990 and 2004 - even before the introduction of pm10 limits. this has been achieved less by legislation than by technical progress. secondly, the conditions within the european union and between the member states vary greatly. i have already mentioned the meteorological and geographical conditions. but it is mainly the very different densities of settlement, transport and industry. this needs to be taken more into account in the implementation of future legislation. and thirdly, to further reduce air pollution, neither short-term actionism such as roadblocks and driving bans nor stricter limits that are only on paper will succeed. parliament welcomed the commission's statement on action at source, which will be published in the official journal in 2008 together with the new directive. the only way to reduce air pollution in the long term is at eu level, mainly by strengthening crossborder measures. the main focus should in future be on the policy on sources, which has been little considered so far, in particular private firing plants, shipping and agriculture.
member of the commission. mr president, i am taking this file on behalf of my colleague, commissioner dimas, who is at the bali conference. i wish to begin by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur, mr krahmer, for his excellent work on the ambient air quality directive, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for their positive contribution. bringing the proposal to this stage has not been an easy journey. the european parliament has played a constructive role in working towards an agreement on a sound and effective text. i should like to express the commission’s appreciation for this. in the preparation of the commission proposal, as well as during the negotiations, we have been clearly guided by the scientific evidence on the importance of the continuous effort to improve air quality, and specifically on the need to address the fine particles (pm2.5). on average, the life expectancy of eu citizens is reduced by more than eight months due to air pollution. this is unacceptable, and we need to do more. only limited improvements in air quality have been achieved in the past few years in the eu, and the attainability of the pm2.5, as well as the existing standards, has been at the centre of the debate. further measures are clearly needed at community, national, regional and local levels. the community measures addressing emissions at source have been outlined in the thematic strategy on air pollution. we are well on track with the development and adoption of these measures. the last progress update can also be found in the declaration adjoined to the compromise package. the commission and parliament share a common understanding on the importance of these measures to achieve an effective reduction of emissions. the main features of the directive are the following. the directive maintains the existing limit and target values, while allowing for some time to achieve full compliance in specific zones, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. the compromise text ensures that the postponement is limited and does not create incentives to delay the measures that need to be taken. as air knows no borders, those measures will support the efforts to achieve compliance, also in the neighbouring regions and states. as regards the pm10 annual limit value, i understand the ambition behind the committee’s proposal to threaten this. the scientific evidence, however, states that, for chronic exposure, the fine pm2.5 sub-fraction of pm10 is the most important, so the commission has proposed leaving the pm10 limit value unchanged and addressing this ambition through the new pm2.5 objectives. pm10 standards will be fully reassessed at the review in 2013 to ensure that the latest scientific knowledge and the implementation experience are properly reflected in the standards. setting timely, realistic, yet ambitious objectives for pm2.5 has been the main challenge in the negotiation. the compromise package sets out very clear commitments in the text of the review article, demonstrating that a more ambitious annual limit value will be considered as part of the mandatory review in 2013 and by setting the indicative limit value for pm2.5. the significance of the introduction of a new, legally binding exposure concentration already in 2015 cannot be overstated. while the new exposure-reduction approach already provides the flexibility for the member states to most effectively maximise public health benefits of their abatement efforts, the new legal obligation and its relatively short time for implementation ensure that the member states will take prompt action and seriously address the reduction of population exposure to fine particles. i am very pleased to acknowledge the specific importance the committee attached to sensitive groups, including children. the additions will support the appropriate consideration of sensitive groups in designing the abatement measures. with this important piece of legislation, the european union will stand ready to continue to effectively reduce and minimise the significant adverse effects of air pollution. the commission is actively supporting the process through the development of community measures and through its continuous support to the implementation of the directives by the member states by providing guidance and facilitating the exchange between the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would also like to thank rapporteur krahmer and the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. the agreement reached with the council at second reading is a success for the european parliament. this agreement is a major step towards improving air quality in europe. but we need the help of all those involved. cities and municipalities must draw up air quality plans and, for example, establish environmental zones if they do not comply with the limit values. the member states must create the conditions for this, as in germany, for example, with the adoption of the car placard regulation. but europe is also in demand. only about 20 to 30 percent of the soot particles in the air come from inner-city traffic. this is the only area where the local authorities can have a say. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from transport. measuring emissions alone does not improve air quality. we need measures to combat particulate matter at its source. this is the real health protection. the commission has now also made a political commitment to such measures. it wants to make legislative proposals, such as euro 6 for lorries which will eventually also lead to the mandatory introduction of soot particulate filters , emission standards for smaller industrial plants and new regulations for marine engines. these regulations must be used to support the actions of local authorities if they are to achieve real improvements in air quality. for the first time, there will be limits for the smallest dust particles. these particles are more dangerous to human health because they are more lung-bound. that's why we have to start here. with ambitious but also realistic values, we are setting another example in health protection. the legislator has shown moderation in this respect, while maintaining a high level of health protection. since parliament has been able to achieve a good result in the smallest dust particles, we have accepted the council's position of not changing the existing limit values for pm10, i.e. also the daily limit values. however, this also means that there is no tightening of the annual limit values for pm10. the text of the directive explicitly states that there is no obligation for municipalities to take ineffective short-term measures such as roadblocks. the focus should be on long-term, sustainable measures such as environmental zones. the municipalities are already doing a lot here, and they should continue to do so. however, cities and municipalities will be able to apply for an extension of the deadline for compliance with the existing pm10 limit values under strict conditions. this means, however, - and i want to emphasize this - that the municipalities are not entitled to free movement. they cannot exceed the limits indefinitely and they will only be granted an extension under two strict conditions: they suffer from adverse climatic conditions or from adverse dispersal conditions such as boiler sites and have taken all appropriate and proportionate measures at local level. this flexibility for local authorities contributes to the practicability of the directive without neglecting the level of health protection. ladies and gentlemen, we have presented a responsible package. we have made a breakthrough in health care!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the compromise reached is better than expected, but to celebrate it as a great success would be an act of blindness, because it has been watered down. the new rules on where to measure have reduced the water content, as high-pressure areas can now be excluded. the compromise negotiated is also damage limitation. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. to prevent the exception from becoming the rule, the eu commission must strictly monitor the action plans and compliance with the limit values and sanction non-compliance. it cannot therefore be celebrated as a great success, because we know: the directive should have been in force long ago. but it can also - and this is a good thing about the compromise - not be a license for the german municipalities to put their hands in the air. the fact that the municipalities and the länder have to submit action plans prevents the renewed call for inaction. but we must also emphasize that the judgment of the federal administrative court in germany has meant and underlined for germany that the municipalities have an obligation to act, one way or another. we know that there are already good initiatives in the european union, such as environmental zones or the conversion of vehicle fleets. but it must be clear now: this is the last grace period granted. now we really must follow the words with deeds, so that an ambitious air pollution policy is not carried out to the point of absurdity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is true that the collection and harmonisation of statistical data on the main economic and social characteristics of regions is essential for the european union. finally, the allocation of the structural funds, one third of the budget, is based on these data bases. but what the commission is putting forward in its census regulation has nothing to do with these needs. the data it wants to collect and harmonise in this legislative text, which is directly applicable to all eu member states, is the personal data of our fellow citizens, which the eu really has no interest in. this includes personal data on family and sexual life, housing situation or religious affiliation. it also has the audacity to want to collect this data by law in uniform standards without including a reference to data protection in the law! it is therefore our task as representatives of the citizens to put an end to such interference with personal rights, especially since there is no reason to harmonize data relating to family life, personal circumstances or housing if this does not fall within the competence of the european union and is not provided for in the reform treaty. it is not possible for the eu to assume back door responsibilities which should remain under the control of the member states alone, including the control of data collection. it is not a question of time or speed for us, but a question of the highest imperative, that the protection of personal data is an absolute priority. this is not guaranteed in the commission's text. i am glad that the rapporteur wants to delete the non-mandatory part here: we have always supported this, already in the committee. unfortunately, she didn't get the majority for it at the time. the citizens expect us to ensure that what is now being proposed in the procedure, namely the postponement, actually leads the committee on civil rights to ensure that data protection is reviewed here and that the decision on parliament's position and the first reading is taken only afterwards. i ask all the groups to stand by their word.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a full answer to this question. we have made some progress, but it is still not enough. there are different things that we have yet to do. the first is that we have already discussed this on several occasions: the european union itself must make preparations. i am also a little saddened that the amendment to the toy directive is still not on the table. when i heard that we were going to have an update in december, i assumed it would be december 2007 and not december 2008. we are now in december, and we know we will not have this. i hope it will not be available in december 2008, but in january at the latest, which is urgent. the second point, madam commissioner, is that the member states must also be made to take responsibility. they need to use rapex much better and more consistently. that's the one. but they must also take the market surveillance they have in their hands much more seriously. we must also make some progress in this area if we are to have the security we need. but it is not just the government or the government agencies that are in demand, it is the toy manufacturers as well. they must also ensure that the quality of their products is right. you can't always blame the other person. it is not acceptable for you to go to china and say, 'yes, we want toys, and they cannot cost more than this.' then it comes at the expense of quality, you have to know that. we cannot take the responsibility away from the manufacturers, but we must ask them to do so. but as i said, control is even better, and that's what we have to achieve. i hope that we will be able to make real progress on this in the security package you have mentioned.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not this debate is a toss-up. mrs kuneva, you are confusing the product safety directive with the toy safety directive! the products directive does indeed have an implementation problem, whereas the toys directive has a legislative deficit. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. two months ago commissioner verheugen assured us that the toy directive would be presented this month. he said leaded toys must not be allowed on the european market. in the first case, we now see that the revision of the toy directive is not in progress. in the second case, mr verheugen has admitted to me in writing that he was wrong when he said that lead was banned in europe. that's not true either. you are confusing the product safety directive with the toy directive. it is quite adventurous of you to say that we need a barcode for particularly dangerous products. i hope you don't mean with the toys! dangerous products have not lost their value in the hands of children! we need the precautionary principle. we don't need a warning label on magnets. what about the warning labels on toys that contain carcinogens? we have the polyaromatic hydrocarbons in europe. we're going to ban them in car tires, but we're going to allow them in toys, even though they're carcinogens. this is an absurd debate, because you are at odds with both directives. in your second reply, please concentrate on the toy directive and answer the questions of when this directive should finally be presented and when the loopholes in the legislation will finally be filled in, as we have proposed in our resolution, and please do not confuse the two. control is good, laws are better.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs kuneva, i have already said in committee that we appreciate your efforts and that we thank you for them. however, some of these things indicate where something is wrong. if you want to warn about magnets, for example, that is precisely what the toy directive is not doing. the toy directive is unfortunately based on the new approach. and the new approach requires that the appropriate standardisation committees take action. the standardization committees have unfortunately not taken action on magnets, nor have they taken action on carcinogens. only three carcinogens are currently banned, the rest are not. we must urgently examine, when we are revising the toy directive, whether this new approach is really the right way forward or whether it is not much more important that the european legislator sets clear standards here, particularly in the field of toys, because toys are aimed primarily at children and children need to be particularly protected. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. i would also like to point out once again that when we revised the package of goods we emphasized the responsibility of importers. this responsibility of importers must be taken seriously. i hope that your side, the commission side, will support it in the trilogue. importers must be held to the same liability as manufacturers. the commission has already done so. it shows that the product safety directive was simply too weak. the member states must be obliged to follow up and they must be obliged to actually withdraw the products from the market. unfortunately, not all have actually been taken off the market.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is no secret that we have already failed once with a project as ambitious as it is necessary: a european civil code. this is only partly due to the fact that some legal cultures in this european union are at odds with written law. this is only partly due to the fact that some others are concerned about the idea that legal provisions on related issues are somewhat summarised and sufficiently final and comprehensive and that basic rules are put in parentheses or brackets. the difficulties are mainly related to the fact that we have common roots in the european union, but these go back a long way, have developed in different ways, are sometimes intermingled, sometimes sacrificed to the arbitrariness of interpretation for the sake of day-to-day politics. our first german president, theodor heuss, a liberal, to be sure, said it well in 1956: 'europe is built on three hills: golgotha, the acropolis in athens, the capitol in rome.' the acropolis is the symbol of greek science, which, with its great philosophers and statesmen, formed the nucleus of our democracies and states. the european union is a great example of the european union's commitment to the european union and its commitment to the european union's citizens. the capitol is the symbol of roman law, which gave us the rule of law and a sense of justice. but, as i said, our legal realities, although deriving from the same roots, have often developed so far apart that these roots are no longer recognizable. the single market seems to be the only basis for this european union. some say that all the legal traditions of the nation states can be preserved. but this is far from reality and, for that matter, far from any experience of life, when we live in an ever smaller, ever faster-spinning and ever more communicative world. the more we spell out the four evangelists of the internal market, the free movement of people, goods, capital and services, the more ideally we structure it in a democratic way and shape it against the background of european values, the clearer it becomes that all this is worth nothing if we cannot put its form, between individuals and between individuals and state power, on the scale of the rule of law and justice. we have already failed once, when the iron curtain came down in europe and countries asked: do you have a right to us? perhaps this was understandable in the light of the belief in the survival of any change in the national legal traditions, at least in a union which could only act unanimously. but we can't fail a second time. this is perhaps the most serious challenge, next to the language issue. the more we spell out our internal market, the clearer the fundamental need is for the uniformity of law not only vertically but also horizontally across the geography of the continent. we've made some progress. we are already in a competition of legal systems. it would be good, and we'd have plenty of time if there was no reality out there. the european quarrel can only benefit those who are powerful and already have redundant legal systems. we are not a family of brothers and sisters who quarrel among themselves, who are torn apart, but who are united in the face of challenges from outside. we're not going to be distracted by any outside challenges. forgotten by the world self-absorbed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the fears are being exploited to the full by national policy-makers to foster selfishness - a strategy that threatens a failure of continental scale of historical proportions. we have to agree, because we're not gonna keep anything else in the end. since the big toss is not going to happen, we have to agree on what's possible. that's why the toolbox is good, that's why the frame of reference is good, that's why it's good to regulate what's possible, and maybe a little bit more. the european parliament is therefore broadly in agreement and has expressed this in several resolutions. we therefore want to know from the commission how ambitious it intends to be in its approach to this objective. that's why we ask questions the way we asked them. the continent and its people need a single rule of law, at least in the form, at least in what the jurist calls the general part. we can build on this, we need justice in the sense of balancing legitimate interests, speed, law accessible to everyone and law understandable to everyone. although the only area of debate today is contract law, the need for action is evident in other areas: family law, inheritance law, administrative law and even criminal law. the commission is now beginning to test the method. the method will be decisive in answering the question of how much, how fast, how well we can respond to the obvious challenges. many of us in the world are waiting for a successful example, many are just waiting for our failure.
member of the commission. mr president, it comes as no surprise that this question attracts such attention, because this is a really pivotal and very important issue. the commission, as a whole, welcomes wholeheartedly the interest that parliament is taking in the common frame of reference (cfr). in its second progress report, the commission announced that, after the academic cfr has been provided by the researchers, the commission will carefully select the parts of this draft that correspond to the common legislative objectives. as we know from the decision, this academic cfr is due by the end of this year. the selection process will be done in consultation with the other institutions, including parliament and stakeholders, and i think that parliament, which has many experts here, will play an important role as usual. the commission has not yet decided how to proceed in selecting those parts of the academic cfr which will be incorporated into the final commission cfr, as this decision also depends on the content of the draft cfr that the researchers will deliver. also, the commission has not yet decided which topics of the eu contract law acquis the cfr should cover. in adopting this decision, the commission will also take into account the content of the academic cfr – which we have not had so far – the outcome of the new cfr workshops, and the position of parliament and the council. the commission has, however, clearly stated several times that the cfr will not be a large-scale harmonisation of private law or a european civil code. the future framework directive, as a result of the review of the consumer contract law acquis, is not dependent on the outcome of the cfr, which is a longer-term project and run separately. the commission will ensure that the parts of the research draft selected for the cfr – and possibly modified – are coherent with each other and with the future framework directive. all this preparatory work will be carried out by all the commission directorates-general involved, in close coordination. in respect of consumer issues, my services have already carried out the respective workshops and analysed the outcome. the results already serve as a starting point for the review of the consumer contract law acquis, and it was very helpful. my fellow commissioner, mr mccreevy, recently held two workshops on information requirements in financial services legislation and on unfair competition rules for business-to-business (‘b-to-b’) contracts. concerning general contract law, the services of vice-president frattini plan to organise several workshops during next year. the commission fully understands that parliament wants to be kept informed of, and involved in, the ongoing work on the cfr. we welcome parliament’s involvement in the cfr process. in addition to the consultation which i mentioned earlier, the commission will continue to keep parliament informed of developments in the most appropriate way, in particular through the parliament working group dedicated to the cfr. i would like to conclude by thanking parliament for its support of the commission’s work on this important dossier. i know that one of the major events in 2006 – if i am not mistaken – took place in vienna, and the outcome of that conference was very inspiring for our work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for your commitment to this cause. this has also brought about a great deal of progress in the development of this project in recent months. i should like to take this opportunity to say that i consider this to be the most important project of the whole legislative period, even though it is a pre-legislative rather than a legislative project. we in parliament are of course very much interested in this - and that is the main reason why we have put this oral question back on the agenda today - because we are conscious of maintaining the arc of tension and of maintaining the debate not only at the level of the working party we have set up and in the committee, but also here in the house as a whole with you. that is why it is important that we have this on the agenda today. we also want to know a few things about you - you haven't been able to say much about the specific timetable - because from the parliament's point of view, of course, in view of the upcoming elections in 2009, it is also important for our planning how we deal with the reference framework. the commission will be presenting a first draft next year, but the final text will not be available until april 2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to emphasize once again that we believe that the reference framework, when adopted by the commission and incorporated into a consultation document, should not be limited to matters of treaty law, but parliament has repeatedly and overwhelmingly made it clear that this must go beyond the purely treaty law framework in order to have the effect we want. we want to be able to think in particular about the option of solving many of the problems we have in the internal market later on in the form of a so-called optional instrument for crossborder transactions. we are now in a situation where, in the happy juxtaposition of the principle of country of origin and the principle of country of destination, we have to live in parallel with many european directives and legislative decisions with up to 28 legal systems, some of which have to be applied in parallel to each other, depending on the circumstances of the case, which is not possible in practice because no one - not a lawyer, not a judge, not a lawyer - is able to know 28 legal systems in europe. in this context, an optional instrument could be one which really opens up the internal market, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises, but also for consumers, and which first creates all the opportunities in the internal market. all the activities of the commission and parliament should be directed towards keeping this option open so that a final decision can be taken in this respect in the next parliamentary term.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. what is the debate today about? we want to adopt a resolution as a parliament on friday, in which we first of all point out that we have also commemorated the tenth anniversary of the ottawa convention with an exhibition here in strasbourg, but in which we also state very clearly that it is not enough to eliminate anti-personnel mines, but that anti-vehicle mines must also be included. ten years of ottawa is so important because it was the first time that a civil society process led to an international condemnation of a weapon of mass destruction, namely antipersonnel mines. it is significant that the only group in parliament which does not support this consensus has disappeared after mr zappalà's speech. the point is that i wanted to ask mr zappalà - given that, for example, in 2005 there were 100 accidents involving anti-vehicle mines in afghanistan alone - whether he had looked into the face of a crippled child who had been blown up by a school bus and explained why he thought anti-personnel mines were bad but anti-vehicle mines were good. the point is that i want to know from him and his group whether they have ever seen the faces of the soldiers who are maimed today, or the relatives of the deceased who were maimed and murdered by anti-vehicle mines, and how they justify this. there is no difference between good and bad mines, but there is a need to eliminate anti-vehicle mines internationally. i would like to say a few words about the question of financing. the stability instrument is of course - and i will continue to be a rapporteur on this - necessary and useful for the short-term measures to be taken to remove mines. but we also know that a short-term measure, a strategy to de-mine our world, is not enough. that is why we are calling for a resolution to discuss the possibility of re-establishing an independent budget line for 2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the ottawa agreement is a success because of pressure from below, from social movements. it was not the governments that started it, but the movement against landmines. 156 countries have now signed, and interestingly, 30 non-state armed groups have signed. the problems are as follows: the anti-tank mines are not covered. these anti-tank mines must also be banned because they affect trucks, buses and so on. we must stop exports, so that they can no longer be exported via other countries, and we must also ban the sister mines. jean-claude juncker put it very well in 2004. he says: 'a ban on cluster bombs would be the logical extension of the ban on landmines.' i must say very clearly that eu arms companies produce landmines. i will name german companies: diehl, rheinmetall, eads. we must put an end to these brutal weapons of murder, the land mines, not only here in the european union but throughout the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the committee on agriculture and rural development deliberated and voted last night and supported the urgency. i therefore urge the house to follow that vote.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have had a long and sometimes very controversial debate on this subject. i thank our reporter. he has earned great respect for his work. he was very focused and worked well with all his colleagues. yes, the wine market regulation must be reformed! it has to adapt to the conditions, to the markets of the future. but, commissioner, there is also the question: must the commission interfere in the little things that create regional identity, which have been practised in regions for centuries and which form the basis of culture in these regions? it's not helping people. people don't understand things sometimes. it is incomprehensible that we should ban sucrose and at the same time sign contracts allowing wine produced with sucrose from third countries to enter the european union. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. the commission, as the third institution next to the council and parliament, should concentrate on its real task. it is intended to make proposals which will promote the further development of the community, which will serve this further development as a whole. the wine market regulation is one of them. i would like to say that with the compromises we found in the committee, for which we fought and for which we are still fighting, we have found good compromises for the whole house. i support it on behalf of the epp-ed group - we all support the compromise. we shall reject all amendments which are contrary to the compromise.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. in wine lies the truth, or, in goethe's words, life is too short to drink bad wine. this is the essence of the eu's wine market reform. the quality of european wine, which does not have to hide from imports from the new world, was the subject of our report. what's the status quo? in 2006, wine production accounted for 5% of the value of eu agricultural production. the eu is the world leader in wine with 45% of vineyard area, 65% of production, 57% of consumption and 70% of exports. we are the world's wine superpower! the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. the reform you proposed, madam commissioner, provided for the immediate cessation of aid for distillation. i believe that many of the things you have mentioned, such as private storage, the abolition of export refunds, aid for must and the sugaring of wine, were central to your reform. but we must also say that from the outset it was a relatively technocratic approach, for example, the enrichment with sugar was to be combined with the question of the must aid. i think that this parliament has negotiated a very good compromise between the north and the south, because these were the main concerns. we have found a very, very good balance of compromise in the committee on agriculture. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr castiglione, who has really tried to find a compromise and we have taken all the concerns into account. i think we have given a new, elegant shape to what was originally a very technocratic solution. we have a balance between north and south. i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for the fact that in your speech you have just announced that you intend to follow this line in principle. what are the important points? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the light of this quality initiative for european wine, we also need further national support measures. and they've been set at 1.3 billion euros. we think that these things should stay in the first pillar so that they can also go directly to the winegrowers. it should also be mentioned - and i think this is one of the most important achievements - that the labelling addresses the designations of origin and geographical indications. this is an extremely important matter for us, because wine and geographical indications are intellectual property. we must protect that, and i think we have reached a very good compromise on that. the alde group will support this compromise, the big compromise package, in all its aspects because we believe it is a good compromise. we now hope that the council will follow our suggestions. the voice of the european parliament is the voice of the people, it is also the voice of the wine growers and wine consumers. we ask you, commissioner, to fight for these things in the council and in the public in general.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. we want wine to be an individual delight both in cultivation and consumption. i would like to say that we do not want any oenological processes to be like coca-cola, but we want to see the designations of origin and provenance protected. we want to promote organic farming and we want - and we have tabled an amendment to that effect - that where the regions are in the majority, wine can only be sold in bottles. we agree with you that permanent distillation is not appropriate for this confection and that the back door introduction of emergency distillation must also be prevented. we agree with you. on the issue of planting rights, we believe there must be an option for grubbing up. that is, if it is not said that it will be released here at some point, then the decision for the grubbing up is not oriented to what can be deposited on wine. that is why this link is imperative. we support this. if you say, when you enrich with grape must and sugar, there must be a modulation here in the sense of a change: ok! that basically means it stays. if a compromise is found here, then we'll find it all right. the addition of sugar is an old oenological process. we should therefore maintain this and reject many american claims for oenological practices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, who has really made a great effort, even though not all his proposals were accepted by the committee on agriculture. i'm sorry about that. i do not want to go into details here, but i would like to say in principle that the obligation to comply with the law is the obligation to comply with the law. the new thing about decoupling is that this compliance with the law is tied to the payment of the premiums. if you do not take the premiums, you cannot have your premiums reduced. you just don't have to apply. but you still have to follow the law. mrs mcguinness, if you are talking about seven inspections and nine inspectors - or vice versa - then you have to fight your member state, because the member states are responsible for how the checks are carried out. and if you have no coordination because so many laws are stored in different administrations and each one is sent individually, and thereby imposes an unmanageable burden on the companies, then this is not a matter for the european level, but for your level at home. you fix this, you're good. i think it's very urgent that these funds be conditional. because we heard it in congress when someone said, "this is money for agriculture". no, this is not money from agriculture, it is being given to agriculture! it is justified - i hope i am not misunderstood - that they should be given. but it is also right for society to require that they be bound by certain conditions. i just had an inspection myself. two people came, they announced themselves - they didn't give me the time, but they announced themselves, they came, and it went very well. of course, commissioner, these checks should be used to develop a system of advice to help farmers to understand how best to comply with and implement the laws on their farm. this was initiated at the initiative of parliament. so there is a possibility. please make it binding on the member states, and we will be one step further.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. for almost two decades, the european parliament has awarded the sakharov prize for freedom of thought to women and men from all over the world who have worked to uphold human rights, freedom of speech and freedom of expression. it is a great pleasure to welcome the 2007 sakharov prize laureate, salih mahmoud mohamed osman, to the european parliament today. (applause from the centre) it is a great pleasure to welcome his wife, who has always accompanied him and is still accompaniing him at difficult stages in his life. i warmly welcome salwa ahmed faragalla ali to our midst. (applause from the centre) the appointment of salih mahmoud mohamed osman as the 2007 sakharov prize laureate was based on a unanimous decision taken by the conference of presidents - that is, the group chairs - on the basis of a proposal from a large number of meps from different political groups. the european parliament thus reaffirms its solidarity with the people of darfur and its conviction that a lasting solution for this region can only be achieved through justice, democracy and human rights. the conflict in darfur since 2003 has further worsened the situation of a country ravaged by more than 20 years of civil war. as in most conflicts, it is the civilian population that is the main victim of the militia raids, the destruction of villages, the scorched earth policy and the displacement. the conflict has so far claimed at least 400 000 lives and displaced more than 2.5 million people, despite the signing of the darfur peace agreement in 2006. like the european parliament, the 2007 sakharov prize laureate does not simply accept this unjust situation, but opposes the impunity of those responsible for it. salih mahmoud mohamed osman has been defending the rights of victims of the conflict in darfur for years. thousands of people who have been arbitrarily detained, tortured and threatened with death, who have been hunted down, expelled or have been victims of sexual violence know the name salih mahmoud mohamed osman. his dedication is remarkable in more ways than one. in a country where violence is on the rise, salih osman risks his life every day in the name of human dignity and justice. in the name of human dignity because salih osman is enabling these destitute, defenseless, intimidated and forgotten women and men to acknowledge their suffering, to be assured that they will not be forgotten, and to have hope of a return to a very normal, simple human life. since 2004, salih osman has been involved in the establishment and management of the amal (which means hope in arabic) centre for the rehabilitation of victims of violence and sexual abuse in nyala. in a predominantly muslim country, salih osman is one of the few men who actively advocates for the rights of women and in particular for the recognition of the right to compensation for victims of sexual violence. but also in the name of justice, because salih osman is working day in and day out to hold those responsible for war crimes accountable both nationally and internationally. while sudan's judicial system still has many gaps to close the country's climate of impunity, international jurisdiction appears to be an alternative. the fact that the sudanese authorities refuse to hand over suspected war criminals to the international criminal court, however, shows the limits of international justice and the progress that still needs to be made to establish the rule of law in darfur and in sudan in general. therefore, salih osman's work is not limited to providing legal assistance to victims. as an opposition member of the sudanese parliament since 2005, salih osman has no hesitation in standing up for his beliefs on the political stage of his country and in contributing to a real reform of the judicial system. i had the opportunity and great pleasure of meeting salih osman at the european parliament and pan-african parliament pre-summit before the eu-africa summit in lisbon last weekend. i immediately admired his strong personality and his unwavering commitment to human rights despite all the persecution and hostility he and his family have faced. i just found out that you and ali have three kids that we're still very close to today. in 2004, salih osman himself was detained for seven months without giving reasons and was released after a hunger strike. members of his family were tortured, murdered; their homes were set on fire by militias. the great german writer johann wolfgang von goethe once wrote: "it is not enough to know, one must also apply; it's not enough to want, you have to do. salih osman lives this will and this determination, he proves his courage in the daily struggle for the people. he is an exemplary advocate of improving the rule of law in his region. salih mahmoud mohamed osman, you have our great support and appreciation! you know that the european parliament has always been particularly sensitive to the suffering of the african peoples. the european parliament has also supported the creation of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) in the field of vocational training. salih osman, we congratulate you on your tireless work in this spirit, and we hope that the recognition this award brings will give you strength and protection year after year as long as your struggle continues. we're on your side! (applause from the centre)
sudanese lawyer acting for the victims of the war in darfur. mr president, thank you for this tremendous honour. this prize is awarded as a unanimous vote of the european parliament – a fact which gives me great satisfaction, but more importantly one which gives me the opportunity to speak to you today. i am a native of darfur, born in jebel marra, which is a mountainous region located in the centre of darfur state. i have worked as a lawyer in darfur in sudan for many years. i have been a victim of detention and torture because of my work. members of my own family have been tortured and displaced by the militia in darfur. for many years, in my work, i have represented thousands of people who needed my help in front of the courts. i have seen thousands of people who have been tortured; i have seen hundreds of women and young girls who have been victims of sexual abuse; i have seen the four million who have been forcibly displaced from their homes and those two and a half million who are confined, as we speak now, in the camps around the cities of darfur: nyala, al fashir, zalingi and al geneina. the un security council has adopted several resolutions related to the situation in darfur. unfortunately, none of these has been implemented effectively. the victims feel disappointed. they are waiting to hear from you; from the people of europe. your leaders have been talking tough about the policies of the sudanese government in darfur. but so far we have not seen any concrete steps to address the situation in a strong and targeted manner. as a representative of the victims of the conflict, today i have an unprecedented opportunity to speak directly to the leaders of europe. the people of darfur need the european union to show a strong, united position regarding protection of innocent civilians. the people of darfur ask you to protect them from the violence, killings and abuse they are forced to face on a daily basis. the people of darfur want you to protect their children and women from acts of rape and sexual violence, which are being used as ‘weapons of war’. this protection can be made possible through the deployment of the un-au hybrid force. the involvement of international, and especially european, forces is imperative, even though the government of sudan may be unwilling to accept that at the present moment. but europe has a role to play in putting more pressure on the government of sudan to facilitate the deployment of these troops and the protection of the people of darfur. now, in darfur, and in sudan, i tell you there will be no peace without justice and without protection. peace can also be facilitated by europe. the european union has a great responsibility to promote peace internationally. the leaders of europe have the ability to lead the peace process also in sudan. i ask you to increase your efforts in bringing the rebel groups and the government of sudan to the table of peace negotiations as a matter of urgency. but the fact is that rebel groups are splitting among themselves, and this does not help the situation in dafur. i want you to think about taking on board other stakeholders: the millions of victims who are voiceless in the camps and other, directly affected people of darfur. take on board also the civil society movement, ngos and community leaders. that would help the situation in darfur. even if we can provide protection and promote peace in darfur, justice and accountability must not be compromised by any political deal. presently, none of the victims can return to their houses or homes, because of the absence or lack of security. not only are our communities being attacked by militias, but even helicopter gunships of the government of sudan are destroying our villages in aerial bombardments. despite these serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, none of the perpetrators has been brought to justice, because the sudanese judicial system is incapable, incompetent and unwilling to provide justice. all the perpetrators are beyond the reach of our domestic justice. this conflict is one which is marked by a culture of total impunity. as a lawyer, and a native of darfur, i know that there can never be a lasting peace in the region without justice. the international criminal court (icc) has made some important and significant steps in promoting accountability. yet, the cycle of impunity has not yet been broken. the people of darfur ask you to support the work of the icc. the icc is the most competent international criminal tribunal which can make the many notorious perpetrators of war crimes and crimes against humanity accountable for their actions. right now, the two identified suspects kosheib and haroun are still beyond the reach of justice. the government of sudan is insisting that it will never hand them over to the icc. darfur is not the only region of sudan which suffers from abuses of human rights. indeed, citizens from every part of sudan face daily restrictions on their freedom of expression, freedom of association and other basic rights that many people in europe take for granted. i urge you, also, to encourage and promote the rule of law in my country, so that all citizens of sudan can enjoy their individual and collective rights. in the light of the upcoming elections in 2009, we must ensure that free and fair elections take place, and that a free and fair result will be respected by all sides. lastly, i would like to thank you, the members of the european parliament, who came to sudan in june of this year to see with your own eyes what i have described. this was a visit coordinated by the office of the european commission in khartoum. the office of the european commission has been a source of great support and a partner to me in my work for many years now. the recognition of the european commission and of you, the european parliament, for the work of human rights defenders in sudan gives us the courage and determination to continue to speak for the victims, and relieve some of their suffering. in conclusion, i am proud to accept this honour on behalf of the other candidates to this prize: the russian journalist assassinated last year, anna politkovskaya; the chinese dissidents, zeng jinyan and hu jia; and the afghani mp and women’s rights activist, joya malalai, and also on behalf of so many sudanese who believe – as i do – in human dignity and the pursuit of justice. thank you so much. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
i am not going to go into detail. i would ask you to stand or to rise, because we are about to hear the european anthem in honour of salih osman.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the crucial question for the green group is also whether the european budget is really forward-looking and responsive to the major challenges of the coming years, especially in our responsibility for foreign policy, but also in research and development, in education and, of course, in the fight against climate change. we do not think that the budget as a whole is as it should be in order to respond adequately to the major challenges. nevertheless, we are pleased that the decision on galileo has now been taken. on the one hand, this is a kind of beginning to the change of the budget to make it more future-oriented, and it is also a historic step for the european union to launch such an ambitious industrial policy project. i think it is very important - especially in the context of the lisbon agenda - that europe does not leave these new technologies, this navigation system, to the usa or china, but that we ourselves want to play a confident role in the world and in the world market. i believe that we must do even more in the coming years to achieve such changes and to find an appropriate response to global problems. i am also very pleased that it has been possible to reallocate funds from the euratom programme to finance galileo. i think this is also a step in the right direction, to spend money that is already available on better technology that is less environmentally damaging. i also thank my colleagues, mr böge and the two rapporteurs for the hard work they have put into this budget. i think he's definitely a step in the right direction.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the 2008 budgetary procedure has shown how far the european parliament can go in negotiations with the council if it is determined to put its ideas into practice as a european policy. we have said from the outset that galileo, after the failure of the public-private partnership option, should be publicly financed with european funds, using the community method. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council has not yet been able to reach a decision on the matter, and we are therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to reach a decision on the matter. i say this as a german and with thanks to the portuguese presidency. so we will be able to finance galileo and the european institute of technology properly until 2013. i am proud of us, the parliament, but i do not forget that the commission has been very helpful in this budgetary procedure. commissioner, thank you and all your services. i am sure that you have helped to put the council on the right track, not only with regard to our policies on competitiveness and innovation, but also with regard to foreign policy appointments. the compromise we reached will provide us with sufficient funds for our european involvement in kosovo and palestine. of course, parliament has had to pay tribute to this. in 2008, the common foreign and security policy will have a budget of eur 285 million. this is 125 million euros more than in 2007. we all know that category 4 will remain a chronically underfunded heading until the end of the financial perspective. the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget, and i am not sure that it will take a decision on the budget. the total expenditure is estimated at eur 120.3 billion, which is equivalent to only 0.96% of the gross national income of the european union. the financial perspective is at least 1.04%. so we will have a budget in 2008 that is tight and that we wish could be a little more generous. all the more reason for us all to work together to ensure that the commission implements the multiannual programmes swiftly and properly, that the commission also implements our comments on individual budget lines in accordance with our intention, that the commission does not first describe the obstacles to implementation in the pilot projects and preparatory measures we propose, but finds ways of implementing them. i call on all colleagues - including those in the specialised committees - to follow the implementation of the 2008 budget with consistency and criticism. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, all the colleagues and the secretariat very warmly for the cooperative and constructive cooperation in 2007. i hope that we will have a similarly closed parliament in 2008, when i will be the rapporteur.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to the two rapporteurs, mr itälä and mr virrankoski, who have done a very solid and successful job in the past few months. i would like to express my gratitude to the coordinators and the staff of the group of the european people's party and i would also like to express my sincere thanks to the secretariat of the committee. i would like to name anne vitrey, ian vollbracht and marie-cécile bernard, who have worked extremely hard for us all in the last few weeks, as alternates. and i say that without the great unity of the european parliament, the overall result we are voting on thursday would not have been possible. the commissioner, in her energetic way, and at the right time in these negotiations, has made a decisive contribution to the outcome and success of the negotiations. thank you very much. i am aware of some budgetary conciliations and i would like to say that i have great respect for the portuguese presidency in the way it has negotiated in the council in this difficult situation. it has made institutional history in the final vote and approval in the council, which we very much and very seriously welcome. in all, we have a budget of eur 120.3 billion in year two of the financial perspective, with 0.96% of payments, which is very much committed to budgetary discipline. we have a budget which protects the programmes of european added value, as we have just decided. we have a budget that provides the basis for the galileo project for the future and the secret lies in the mixture of revision, flexibility and re-allocation , initially until 2013. we have a budget which provides additional funds for frontex, thus providing the necessary answers to urgent challenges, and we have a budget which, unfortunately, is only for 2008, but which at least funds the common foreign and security policy, including the use of the flexibility instrument. i would like to say that we would have preferred, of course, to have found a multiannual, long-term approach to securing the chronically underfunded heading 4 'eu as a global partner'. but this will be a subject to which we will certainly have to return in the next budget, under the chairmanship of mrs haug, because of the cfsp, because of palestine and kosovo. i recommend to all colleagues that we approve this budget as agreed.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i wanted to start by paying you a compliment. i think that your ties of the portuguese presidency are a great adornment of this chamber and that you have shown a spirit of cooperation in the council which we would not have suspected. from the point of view of budgetary control, there are two points which we would like to stress in particular in this financial year 2008. the first point - the commissioner has raised it - is the continuation of the screening of commission staff in the areas of coordination and administrative support. we know that the commission itself has doubts whether it really needs 1700 staff in communications or 3500 in document management or 1700 in human resources - together, after all, almost a third of the staff in support and coordination. we want the administration not to be concerned with itself but to have in its staff a workforce capable of meeting the political priorities of the commission and also those of parliament. the commission is therefore invited to continue to examine these areas in an action plan. this issue must remain on the agenda and will remain on the agenda, with or without a reserve, with or without paragraph 11 of the resolution and with or without corresponding advance payments. i would urge you to continue to pursue this matter. they've given statements about it. i've heard those statements, and i'll judge you by them. i believe that this commission can very well draw up an action plan, because it is the commission which is in a position to do so. the follow-up committee will not be able to do so. so i think that the appropriate preliminary work, the appropriate preliminary work on your part is important. i am very interested in this subject and i remain open to discussion. the second point which is important to us is the national declarations of administration for the funds under shared management. mr president-in-office, you made a commitment to us in our negotiations, you gave us the assurance that you would take care of this matter. you've left open exactly what this is supposed to look like. the slovenian presidency is invited to take action in this area as well. we would urge the commission to provide the necessary guidelines to enable us to begin discussions with the member states. without these guidelines, without the member states taking action, this will be difficult.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report contains some good news. for example, there is a chapter on the european neighbourhood policy. the report also describes the deteriorating human rights situation in russia, but warns against the isolation of the country. nevertheless, it would be important to continue discussions in follow-up dialogues on issues such as freedom of expression, press and religion, ngo and anti-extremism legislation, the fight against terrorism and chechnya. the council and the commission should establish a follow-up mechanism. the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud and corruption. it would be desirable if the russian government would finally participate in the consultations leading up to the human rights dialogues. the report shows that the eu has become more active in the field of human rights, but unfortunately omits a more critical reflection on the human rights situation within the eu. but we need it for a credible human rights policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that the eu-africa summit took place. we can see more clearly now. we have a strategy, we have a first plan of action. we in the european parliament will be closely monitoring its implementation. as chairman of the delegation for relations with the pan-african parliament, i can say that we will do this together with our african colleagues. on the issue of good governance, we expressed our conviction in a statement at our pre-parliamentary summit that by strengthening the capacity of african parliaments, these institutions, which have been neglected so far, could make an effective contribution to good governance and to monitoring the implementation of policies. we need the appropriate resources in the specific programmes of the commission and the member states. in the field of human rights, we see africans closing ranks when europeans make justified criticisms of the situation in specific countries. the summit was marked by the dismissal of isolated statements of dissent from mugabe's policy in the run-up to the summit. i thank the german chancellor, angela merkel, for having found, on behalf of all, clear words on zimbabwe. but i think we have a real problem with the epa. it cannot be the aim of the eu to de facto disintegrate sadc or sacu, the southern african customs union, by concluding interim agreements with some countries and not others. president mbeki's arguments on this issue are factual, but on zimbabwe he is more of a partisan. i would ask the council, in the case of economic partnership agreements, to give the commission a more flexible mandate for negotiations, so that undesirable effects such as the interruption of trade flows for the non-ldc countries do not occur simply because of the time-scale on 1 january. yes, wto compatibility is required! but to do that, i think there has to be some creativity. sometimes you can stop the clocks for a limited time. we are all wto members ourselves.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me refer to some of the outcomes of the summit, which i believe lack coherence in development policy. what has been built on good foundations for the achievement of the millennium development goals and also for climate protection objectives is being torn down again by the way in which pressure is being put on the economic partnership negotiations and, above all, on the group-oriented energy policy. the aim is to extort free trade agreements from individual partners and thus to re-segment mature regional economies in africa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have again made important promises on migration management. but these are now in conflict with the draft directives on selective migration presented by commissioner frattini. i think it is urgently necessary to withdraw these proposals, otherwise the question of mobility and freedom of movement between europeans and africans will remain a nightmare.
member of the commission. i will start with the third question. there are issues that could be dealt with by the market, by consumer power, but there are issues where we need structural change. the particularity of the electricity market is that the marginal power plant decides the price level. here, it is very clear that we need complete transparency in the market, which is why the third regulation package really addresses the separation of transmission activities from the supply activities. otherwise we will never have a chance to ask whether we are paying a fair price. secondly, if you create the conditions for competition in the market, then the price trends are really that it is not increasing or coming down or it is increasing less compared with an uncompetitive market, because otherwise the companies which have a semi-monopoly could really dictate the price. that means that these two issues are actually in the hands of the governments. on consumer power, we have adopted a consumer rights charter and this definitely gives all the right information about the rights of consumers stemming from all existing legislation. we have strengthened these rights even more. regarding the consumer forum, we will certainly invite the consumer organisations that are well represented in member states and the umbrella organisation. the best supporters of our measures to really create a europe-wide competitive market definitely come from the different consumer organisations.
member of the commission. the commission pays great attention to the security of supply situation in south-east europe. this was among the main objectives in setting up an energy community, which is based on eu legislation, for the internal gas and electricity markets, and in particular its provisions on security of energy supply and solidarity. south-east europe is at the crossroads of several main energy routes. several countries of the region produce gas. i would mention croatia and romania. new lng terminals on the adriatic coast and the new gas and electricity interconnectors linking to the different energy sources were recently put into service or are at an advanced phase of development. however, for certain countries there is a significant share of natural gas from one provider for the industrial sector, for heating and also for power generation. in the framework of the energy community treaty, with the support of eu financial instruments and the international financial institutions, the commission promotes the development of an integrated market in the region, anchored to the eu market. but this means that the development of gas and electricity trade in the region, the development of new interconnection and generation projects and the setting up of a stable regulatory framework will considerably enhance security of supply. moreover, new gas sources will allow the development of the gas sector in those countries where it does not exist yet. there is also a very clear focus on energy efficiency. in order to strengthen energy security, the commission favours the policy of diversification of suppliers and of transport routes. in particular, it strongly supports the development of the nabucco project and other gas projects and lng developments in the region, as well as well-grounded oil projects aimed at achieving the diversification objective. the commission also considers that russia will in the future remain an important energy source for south-east europe but alongside other sources from the mediterranean basin and the caspian sea region.
first of all, thank you for your very good and thorough reply. i have just two quick supplementary questions. firstly, is there any specific cooperation with the two candidate countries in the region, namely croatia and macedonia? and secondly, kosovo's energy dependence is a particular problem. can we not give special support to wind and hydroelectric power in neighbouring albania? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am of the opposite opinion from mr bradburn. first of all, i should like to thank mr leichtfried for the report and, of course, for the well-negotiated compromise. the extension of easa's remit is a step towards ensuring the highest possible standards of safety in air transport, uniform pilot licences with the same training standards, the licensing of third country airlines and uniform training of flight attendants, and responsibility for the implementation of eu-ops. i think that by allowing easa to also impose fines for non-compliance with safety regulations, we will be greatly strengthening its enforcement capacity. the sometimes unnecessary and unproductive competition and friction between national competences and easa will hopefully soon be over. the strong growth of air transport in europe requires a strong easa with a central technical safety oversight function. this means that easa's funding must be put on a secure footing in the long term. i believe that one of the next steps is for the national accident investigation services not only to be coordinated at european level but also for their results to be evaluated by easa. this is a european security gain and prevents the member states concerned from making a whitewash. in the long term - i stress this - we need a model in europe which both eliminates the need for national levels and deals with safety and security issues jointly, like the faa in the united states. that would be my vision.
the commission's vice-president madam president, the commission has launched a study which aims to identify all existing publications on the subject, to identify best practices in external cost assessment. among the methodologies identified, many refer to research projects funded by the commission: unit, externe and other more recent ones. a manual, a handbook, is being written, and we plan to publish it very soon. that's a first point. secondly, the commission has started work on an impact assessment of the compensation of external costs. several pricing policy options have been identified and are now being put to a public consultation. this consultation will end on 31 december 2007. a high-level conference will then be held in january 2008 to present the handbook and the results of the public consultation, which will enrich the ongoing impact assessment. so here's a little bit of our work schedule. as you can see, it's a lot of work. the external costs taken into account are: accidents, congestion, air pollution, climate change and noise. the analysis covers all modes of transport. the analysis looks at different systems, different economic instruments from taxation to user rights and the exchange of emission allowances, and we evaluate these different instruments through a quantitative analysis carried out using models. the aim is to achieve ever more environmentally friendly transport. depending on the results of all this work, the commission will make a communication before next summer. i am opening a reply to mrs ticàu on the alpine convention. the transport protocol to the convention aims to establish specific charging systems which take account of real costs and which are intended to promote the most environmentally friendly transport. the scheme established by the 2006 eurovignette directive to promote the use of transport that is more environmentally friendly pursues the same objectives as the 'transport' protocol to the alpine convention. what does the current eurovignette directive say? it provides for the compulsory modulation of tolls from 2010 so that polluting vehicles can pay up to 100% more than more environmentally friendly vehicles. the directive provides for the internalisation of external costs in mountain areas linked to environmental damage and congestion by applying a surcharge of up to 25% of the infrastructure toll. the revenue from this overspending must be reallocated to projects which directly contribute to the alleviation of environmental damage. so, ladies and gentlemen, i want to be very clear: this communication in the light of all the work i have indicated is a difficult work, believe me! it will allow the best calculation methods in this field to be evaluated. it will define a methodology that can be used for the different modes of transport. at the same time, i intend to present to the college, in mid-2008, before the summer, in june, a report on the evaluation and internalisation of external costs. i have spoken of communication, and i shall be presenting this report together with a proposal to amend the current directive on the euro badge, subject to the agreement of the college. it is clear, but it must be said, that the proposal for the current euro-vignette directive is an amendment designed to make it possible to internalise external costs within the framework of the current directive. that is what i could say in parliament. madam president, i know how much this is at the heart of our sustainable development policy. the internal costs must be internalised, but to internalise the external costs properly we need a community definition and we need to choose the best method for this internalisation. i was able to say this to you tonight, and to be as specific as possible, that i will be ready to return to parliament to report on the difficult and important work required for this report, which i will be presenting in mid-2008.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i like what you said about commissioning studies and preparing conferences. but i'm asking you to answer a simple question. i am not asking you to submit a communication by 10 june 2008, but i am asking you to submit by 10 june 2008 - i quote - a generally applicable, transparent and comprehensible model for the assessment of all external costs and the allocation of external costs to all modes of transport, in accordance with the current version of article 11 (3) of the eurovignette directive. so, by june, will we have a model for external costs, their calculation and burden, yes or no? that's the first question. the second question is: if i understand correctly, you are not under any obligation to submit an amendment to the euro-vignette directive in 2008, unlike the presentation of the model. and it probably won't, because if i understand this correctly, the idea is to develop a model for costing and then in the implementation phase, transfer the external costs to all modes of transport, to inland waterway, to maritime, to rail, to cars. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to know whether you will be revising the eurovignette directive at the same time as you are planning to extend the external cost charge to other modes of transport. two simple questions. i hope i get two simple answers.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, thank you very much for your comments. we have been discussing the calculation of external costs since the 1920s. and we parliamentarians had different models when we adopted the eurovignette directive. but because we were not able politically at the time to integrate external costs to a large extent into the methodology for calculating the road toll for lorries, we have just negotiated that you should present a uniform methodology to the commission by the summer of next year. this is particularly important in the context of the current climate change debate. because that is so, we now have questions that arise. some have been named. firstly, will the commission, by june next year, present a generally applicable and comprehensible model for the assessment of all external costs which can be considered as generally binding? when i hear "manual", it sounds good, but it sounds more like best practice and an offer. we want a method which is universally binding and which will not be called into question. secondly, will this model take account of the climate and environmental objectives set by the eu? my colleague ţicău asked me that. this is not a simple methodology, because the approaches so far are based on current costs and not on the achievement of environmental objectives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thirdly, we want to have a legislative proposal at the end of the day. so when does the commission intend to amend the eurovignette directive? is that what she means, or is that completely open? fourthly, when will this method or model be applied to the calculation of infrastructure charges for other modes of transport? that is what we were trying to do, as georg jarzembowski said. we want to finally eliminate the distortion of competition between modes of transport and raise them to a common comparable level.
member of the commission. madam president, firstly i would like to warmly thank the committee on legal affairs and the rapporteur, mr lehne, for the hard and excellent work he has carried out in the preparation of his report on the proposal to amend the design directive. i welcome the fact that this work has eventually allowed the committee to pave the way for liberalising the spare parts aftermarket in the whole community. currently, there is a situation of different, opposed regimes of design protection, where 10 member states have liberalised and 17 member states extend design protection to spare parts. this situation is entirely unsatisfactory for the internal market. in the automotive sector, which is the sector most affected, there is a single market for cars but no single market for their spare parts. this leads to distortion of prices and obstacles to trade. the proposed exclusion of design protection in the aftermarket for spare parts is the right and only effective way to achieve a single market in this area. the commission’s extended impact assessment analysing the options to solve the problem demonstrates this. the commission’s figures suggest that, currently, consumers are paying a 6% to 10% premium for these spare parts in member states which provide for design protection. with the liberalisation, consumers will benefit directly from the increased competition and the completion of the internal market. the independent distribution sector will be in a position to put a larger spectrum of parts on offer, including parts from original equipment suppliers, as well as the normally cheaper parts from independent producers. this will lead to more choice and lower prices for spare parts. liberalisation will also open business opportunities to independent spare parts producers, mostly smes, and create a european market of sufficient scale allowing new entrants to emerge. the essential purpose of design protection is to foster competition of forms through design innovation. this can, however, not apply to spare parts which have to be identical in design to the original parts if they are to serve a purpose. the consumer pays for the design when buying a new car or other product; he should not be forced to pay again each time he needs a spare part. the proposed repairs clause strikes a fair and correct balance between protecting innovation where appropriate and maintaining free trade and competition where necessary. european citizens and businesses today need a single market for spare parts which allows for more competition. with this directive we can provide the market with the right key to achieve this.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are coming today to the provisional end of a discussion that has lasted for seventeen years. i remember that we had to deal with this issue as far back as 1994, when i was first elected to this house. it was not brought to a conclusion at the time. we have only managed to avoid the subject during the conciliation procedure. the commission has put forward a new proposal a few years ago, which again took some time, but which is now finally being brought to an end, at least at first reading. what is now being proposed and is on the table is in principle what the commission is proposing, namely the liberalisation of the spare parts market, but with a transitional period of five years for the member states which have design protection for these areas. for 17 years, i have heard arguments for and against. most of them are not convincing. i would like to give a number of examples: firstly, the argument that there would be lower consumer prices if the repair clause were introduced. there's no empirical evidence to support that. quite the opposite! the comparison of spare parts prices in the uk liberalised and germany not liberalised shows the paradoxical result that spare parts prices in the uk are higher than in germany. it 's a simple game . the car companies have to put their design prices, their design costs, somewhere. if you don't put them in the spare parts department, you're gonna have to kill them on the new car price. so the cars are getting more expensive. this too must be paid for by the consumer. the same applies to insurance premiums. the insurance also covers part of the cost of buying new vehicles. if they become more expensive, it will not benefit the consumer. he always pays the piper in the end. the idea that the automotive industry would need this to protect itself against far eastern competitors that threaten its markets is also not very convincing in my view, because we will soon see the automotive industry finding ways to protect these parts in other ways: smart hoods and smart exterior mirrors through patent protection, and certain parts through trademark law, by simply putting certain logos on these parts, through regulations made under warranty agreements, and other approaches. the safety argument put forward is also not convincing, as our impact assessment has shown, because we know that safety can be guaranteed by type-examination. i am simply saying that i believe that all the arguments have in the end remained mere speculations and have not clearly answered the central question. in conclusion, i would like to make two main points which i accept: one is the copyright argument that intellectual property rights should be protected in an exemplary manner in europe. in fact, i believe that what we are about to decide here will probably send the wrong signal to china and india and that it is our duty as europeans to defend intellectual property rights. but i would also like to counter this by saying that we have a european single market and - as commissioner mcgreevy rightly said - that two thirds of the member states have liberalised, that is, they do not have protection, and one third do. if we want to create a single market in europe, we also need common legal rules. and it's not unusual for the majority principle to be followed. i have always considered that there was a compromise solution, which i had advocated with commissioner monti back in the 1990s. that was the idea of the compulsory licence. this means that anyone could have reproduced the parts and had to pay a corresponding license fee to the owner of the design rights. we have something very similar in the area of copyright, by the way. so no one can tell me that it's not possible. and there would have been an opportunity to protect design and create a market. unfortunately, there was no majority for this either in this house or in the council. what was left in the end was the consequence: we are liberalizing and, to protect those member states which need a certain amount of time to change, we are creating a transitional period. in the end, the dispute was left over for a period of five years or eight years. my group has decided, as the legal affairs committee has done, to vote for five years, and the socialist group, as i have heard, for eight years. the essence of the matter is that if parliament decides tomorrow whether to include five or eight years in the text, the signal to the council is that it should agree on a transitional period. i know from my talks with the slovenian presidency that the proposals that will come from there will be more long-term than short-term. i wish the slovenian presidency every success in its efforts. i think we should remember one thing for the second reading: if there is to be agreement in the council, we should make it a point in parliament not to complicate matters further in the second reading. the subject is not worth it, and it is high time to put an end to it. that is our contribution to bringing it to an end.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. after a long struggle, the legal affairs committee has voted in favour of full liberalisation of the secondary market for visible spare parts. the compromise reached in the legal affairs committee provides for a free market after a transitional period of five years, as we have just heard. i welcome this step, although personally i think the transitional period is too long rather than too short. the step is more than overdue. we have just heard from mr lehne that this subject has been under discussion for 17 years. as early as 2005, that is two and a half years ago, i had called for short-term liberalisation as rapporteur in the economic and monetary affairs committee. unfortunately, the original rapporteur on the committee responsible for legal affairs has repeatedly delayed the dossier. i do not know whether it was due to subjective doubts about the usefulness of the project or because he could not withstand the strong pressure of the car manufacturers in his own state. in any case, it is incomprehensible that we have a single market for new motor vehicles but not for spare parts. the liberalization of the secondary market will increase competition, tend to put pressure on prices and increase the supply to the consumer. this will not hinder innovation, on the contrary, it could even boost it, as car manufacturers will try to design their products in such a way that it becomes more difficult for independent suppliers to produce spare parts. i am of course in favour of the right to intellectual property and its protection, there is no question about that, but that right does not stand in the way of the liberalisation of the market. after all, there is only one case in which a car manufacturer has brought a complaint against another manufacturer for imitation of the design on the primary market, although some models did indeed bear very close resemblances to each other. small and medium-sized enterprises will also benefit from liberalisation through new market opportunities, which should have a positive impact on employment in the eu and replace some imports. the individual consumer is finally given the opportunity to choose freely between several suppliers. i'm sure he'll be happy to take that chance.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the liberalization of the market for visible car spare parts is welcome for three reasons. first, consumers will benefit from more choice and competition. secondly, perhaps a fall in prices is to be expected, but at least transparency in pricing, because design costs for a new car should be taken into account when buying the new car and not through a downstream monopoly on spare parts. thirdly, the labour market in the european union will benefit as european parts manufacturers will also be able to produce spare parts for imported vehicles in the eu. this was previously only possible for non-european manufacturers. i visited one of these companies near gütersloh during the 2004 election campaign. they'll be happy about this arrangement. i also welcome the fact that important elements of the commission's proposal, such as the reparation clause, are now included in the vote of the legal affairs committee. i have already supported this as rapporteur for my group in the committee on the internal market. i believe that this is another step towards the goal of a genuine single market. there are two major shortcomings, which have already been mentioned by the honourable members. the first is the delay in the report by the original rapporteur. mr radwan has not acted here as a representative of the european citizens, but as a representative of the bavarian motor works - bmw for short. that's not very nice. secondly, the delay in the five-year grace period is quite long. five years until liberalisation takes effect is a long time, it delays competition and the positive effects of liberalisation. i hear that the german government is planning to continue its blockade in the council. that's anti-competitive nonsense. unfortunately, this has become a trademark of the german government. i hope she'll back off in the council. the bottom line is that we have a compromise that we can live with and that we should accept. i can only echo the words of mr lehne, whom i would like to thank very much for his work here, that we should finish this now and not delay it any longer at second reading.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the amendment to the design directive concerns whether or not a rightfully existing protection for the body design of a car should also extend to the corresponding visible spare parts, e.g. exterior mirrors or headlights. the consequence of such an expansion - in my opinion an exaggeration - of design protection would be the monopolization of a market of over 13 billion euros in favour of the car manufacturers. design protection for spare parts would exempt about 25% of the total spare parts market from the effect of the automotive block exemption regulation. the repair clause proposed by the eu commission ensures that the gmo, the basic law for the automotive sector, applies to the entire spare parts and repair market in the single market, as is now the case only in belgium, ireland, italy, spain and the uk. the transitional period of five years proposed by the epp group for the entry into force of the directive is sufficient and, in my view, more than generous. i would like to warn against further delays, also with regard to the council, because consumers have been waiting for a long time now, after these long discussions here in the house and between the member states, for lower repair costs and insurance premiums. we should not leave the question of what the inevitable consequence of further inaction would be to the ecj, but we should be the legislators who shape it. the council should also make an effort to reach a decision on this matter, which we shall be discussing here tomorrow.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the european council in brussels on 13 and 14 december 2007.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the president of the commission has rightly pointed out one of the key areas of the challenges of these days: the question of how we organise internal policy in europe on the basis of the treaty that will be signed these days, on the basis of the new legal structures of the european union. he pointed to the problem of mass immigration to europe as an example of how a european internal space - a legal space that has external borders but no longer internal borders - could be organised. we do this at the interstate level. the schengen agreement is not european union law, it is not community law, it is intergovernmental law. that already shows that we still have a design flaw here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's a big difference! the european parliament has already said that it is not in favour of the european union's accession to the european union. and we cannot afford that in the face of the challenges of migration policy! in this respect, commission president barroso is quite right: it is not possible for some, for example in southern europe, to be under enormous migratory pressure and for others, at other geographical ends of europe, to be getting off on the wrong foot. that won't be possible in the long run. the first step is to take a fresh start with a new treaty basis, and the second step is to deepen integration, also in the field of the common internal policy, the common security policy and the common judicial policy. i am now on to the second point, which is of particular importance to us in these days. today we will solemnly sign the charter of fundamental rights. - thank you. a wonderful table, wonderful chairs, the atmosphere is as great as ever. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) yes, and wonderful members of parliament. but there are more or less nice members, mr cohn-bendit. (cheers and applause) the frame is wonderful, as always. but all of this reminds me of a close friend of mine who married several times in his life and filed for divorce several times. and every time i went to his wedding and went home, i would say to him at the solemn ceremony and the wonderful setting that was organized, "it was nice, as always, with you!" i feel a little like that today. i was in rome, you were there, mr pöttering, and a number of colleagues are sitting here. we saw that in rome. it was like a wedding: festive, great food, wonderful ceremony, wonderful music, (call from daniel cohn-bendit: beautiful city!) nice city, great ambience, cohn-bendit not in it, so it's all good! (laughter) we then drove home and witnessed the divorce! and today we're going to the wedding again, this time in lisbon: wonderful ambience, wonderful city, cohn-bendit not there it's all as it should be. i only hope that ireland will not be the next to file for divorce! the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the internal market. ratifying the treaty makes sense. those who wanted to destroy the constitution because they believed it would stop the process of integration, the anti-europeans, have certainly been taught a lesson by this treaty. the fact is that the lisbon treaty does not meet all the wishes, but it is better than the destruction of europe on the basis of a permanent 'no' to integration! (applause from the centre) and those who thought that the constitutional treaty was not social enough, that one had to add a little more to it, those who said no because of that, will not get more with this treaty, but thanks to the proclamation and the integration of the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty, a number of fundamental social rights are to be realised. the extremist "no" on both sides certainly had its reasons. i am closer to those who said no for social reasons than to those who were anti-european and who did not want this treaty for fundamental reasons, because they do not want this union. but one thing is clear: this treaty can only be an intermediate step. it is a step forward, but it is not a sufficient step. but this step forward must be taken now. i hope this is a long-term marriage. i hope the divorce lawyers stay home. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to prevent it from spreading. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. much has been said about the content of the treaty. for us german liberals, certain key points have always been decisive. the first is that the compromise on institutional matters should be maintained. secondly, we wanted an eu foreign minister who was not a figurehead but a real spokesman for the european union. we agree with what mr saryusz-wolski has just said on institutional improvement. we also believe that the political will in the capitals will remain the decisive factor in the common foreign and security policy until further notice. the third point that was particularly important to us is strong protection of fundamental rights. we are therefore looking forward to the proclamation of the charter. the treaty of lisbon is a success of german-portuguese cooperation. both presidencies deserve congratulations on this success. the point of proximity to the citizens is a real worm's-tail. the council's decision not to submit a consolidated text would be called a realsatire. reality is so absurd, a satirist could not imagine anything more absurd. but reality will overtake that decision. i am sure that the citizens and the parliaments will get a copy of the text and then really look it up. we must now enter a phase in which the european union must once again move from an institutional umbilical to a global perspective. we must live up to our global economic responsibility. the global economic situation raises the concern that our growth and employment will decline. i see in many member states, including my own country, a new sense of comfort, a debilitating desire for reform. that has to change. secondly, we must also play our part responsibly in international politics. people want a strong global role for the european union. this is our responsibility!
acting president of the council. mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to make a brief reference in my final speech to an issue which has been raised here several times and which is of undeniable importance, is on the european union's external agenda and will of course very likely remain a priority in the coming weeks and months. i am referring to the question of kosovo. and i would like to tell you briefly what the portuguese presidency's position has been on this essential question. it was very important to us that, following the presentation of the atissari plan to the security council, a troika consisting of the european union, russia and the united states could be set up to, again in very close contact with the parties, possibly seek solutions that could be agreed by those parties. there were two main objectives, the objective of seeking to go into some of the aspects which could and should be dealt with in the atissari plan. on the other hand, we are sure that we and the european union have done everything in our power to ensure that a consensual solution for the future of kosovo can be reached. it was a 120-day mandate. we know today, it is public, the troika has reported it, that this solution between the parties to the future status of kosovo was not possible, but all is not lost. first of all, we must note the excellent atmosphere, the excellent atmosphere that has existed between the troika partners and also the relationship of the troika with the parties. secondly, as we would have liked and expected, several of the aspects of the atissari report have been developed further and new commitments have naturally been made on this basis. thirdly, a very important aspect, which perhaps has not been given much attention, is the commitment of the parties not to resort to violent solutions to resolve the question of kosovo's future status. we attach the utmost importance to this political commitment and naturally expect it to be respected. the process has been returned to the united nations and will be discussed again in the security council. the united nations has a key role to play here. but if it is not possible, at the level of the united nations, to find a solution among the members of the security council that can define the future status of kosovo, let us have no doubt that the international community, and in particular the european union, will have to take decisions that we all know will be complex decisions and that will probably be difficult decisions. three comments in this respect which are the main concerns of the portuguese presidency and which will be the main concerns of portugal as a member state of the european union from 1 january. of course, the unity between the member states must be preserved. it is essential for us that when we are called upon to make a decision, and if we have to make a decision, we do so in a united way. that we present a common front. this is absolutely essential for us. what we would not like, what we would not wish and what we will do everything to avoid is that the european union should appear divided on the kosovo issue, as it has in the past, also in relation to international situations, difficult international cases and cases of great responsibility. unity is therefore the key word. secondly, the european union must assume its responsibilities because kosovo is first and foremost a european problem, it is first and foremost our problem and, if it is clear that we are counting on all our international partners, also in the search for a solution to this issue, europe cannot turn its back on kosovo, it must fully assume its responsibilities as a european problem and the conclusion of the presidency, i think the european union is perfectly aware of this fact and is perfectly aware that it must indeed play a leading role here. thirdly, let us not be hasty, let us carefully consider the consequences of any decision we take, let us naturally seek consensus in all circumstances and situations, let us also have a clear position on this issue, and let us convey it in a very transparent and very obvious way to all the partners who are also involved in some way in the kosovo issue. finally, let us ensure that a solution to the future status of kosovo always and under all circumstances requires respect for the values and principles which are fundamental to the european union, namely, peace and regional stability, and also, of course, respect for the law, respect for democracy and respect for human rights. there is no other framework for the solution of the kosovo problem and we must not, under any circumstances, forget that the european union has offered the countries of the western balkans, and in particular serbia, a solid and unambiguous european perspective and it is in this sense too that we must work with the parties. the parties must know that europe is their natural calling. let us hope that the european union, in solving the difficult question of kosovo - let us not be under any illusions that it is a complex question, that it is a difficult question - we can only hope, as i say, that the european union, in any circumstances and despite the differences that may exist on particular issues, that we can maintain our unity. this is even fundamental to the european union's own credibility in its external action. that is, in a nutshell, what i would like to say about kosovo. finally, mr president, i hope you will forgive me, and i am sure you will understand, for a personal note: i am glad that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the situation in the community. it is therefore a note of farewell, and a note of farewell which can only be a note of recognition and gratitude for the support i have always received in this house from all the members and the president. i have learned from you and from you how important this parliament is in strengthening democracy in our union and also, of course, in strengthening the legitimacy of the decisions we take here, with a view, of course, to a more prosperous, freer union for the benefit of the citizens of europe. so thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. i would also like to thank the commissioners and their colleagues, and the president of the commission, who has often shared these debates with me and with whom i have been able to establish a great deal of common ground in terms of work, objectives and efforts. thank you very much, commissioner. i would also like to thank the staff of the european parliament and, above all, and you will forgive me for this, my fellow countrymen who work here. finally, and i hope i am not forgetting anyone, the interpreters of my language, the interpreters of the portuguese language, of which i am very proud. i'll end with the english expression, "i will miss you all". i miss you already. thank you very much.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. we shall see you in lisbon tomorrow and then you will accompany the president of the council, josé sócrates, again next week. but i would like to thank you very warmly for speaking here for the last time and to confirm that our cooperation with you has been very pleasant and, above all, successful. thank you very much, manuel lobo antunes!
vice-president of the commission. mr president, thank you very much for this wide-ranging debate, which i think will provide valuable input to the meeting in lisbon and to the summit in brussels. i would like to focus on a few areas that have been raised this morning, starting with the treaty of lisbon and the charter. first of all, i think that the portuguese presidency, like the german presidency before it, deserves great credit for getting us to this point. the signature in lisbon tomorrow will underline the commitment of all signatories to achieving ratification of the treaty. i would also like to use this opportunity to again thank the parliament representatives for the important role that they have played in allowing the union to solve its institutional difficulties. of course, the commission has also actively engaged throughout this long procedure, not least through the citizens’ agenda and the ‘twin-track approach’, which president barroso referred to earlier on. do not forget, those of you who say that, after all, the union works even without these changes, that there are a number of new elements in this reform treaty that will help us and explicitly allow us to tackle more effectively climate change and the whole energy challenge, as well as providing for more openness through public council meetings and the increased role of national parliaments. so i think it will also help us to become more transparent, more open and more democratic. whatever ratification procedure is decided by the different member states, we all have an obligation to communicate with citizens. of course we will have to do that in partnership and also respecting the different needs and wishes expressed by member states about this debate. i think today’s proclamation of the charter is also symbolic of another important achievement of the negotiations, a symbol of the fact that – except for special arrangements in two of our member states and as long as the treaty enters into force – the charter will be legally binding, guaranteeing the fundamental rights of europe’s citizens. the second point i would like to comment on is the ‘reflection group’, because i think we must make sure that it focuses on the policy challenges of the future and not mainly on the institutions. it needs to focus on the expectations of europe’s people, and i also hope that this group will be representative of the diversity of the europe of today. my third comment concerns migration. i think that an integrated approach to migration involves a mix of european union and national policies. it requires coherence between our policies on legal and illegal migration. it involves actions in development policies, social integration, freedom of movement, border security and visas, to name a few. it is excellent that this council will also be discussing these questions globally, but i think that parliament can make a substantial contribution to this discussion. the lisbon strategy, as the president said, is delivering, and i think this should be a cause for celebration on all sides of this house. equally, there is a consensus on the need for actions to address all aspects of sustainable development as part of the strategy. this includes flexicurity, social inclusion and climate change. if we can agree on the policy direction, we will be able to generate real political commitment to solve the real problems that have been mentioned by some of you. finally, let me also say, on the issue of kosovo, mentioned by many in this house, that the commission fully shares the concerns expressed by a number of members on the situation in kosovo, and the european union has done everything possible to reach a negotiated solution, but it is clear now that the status quo is unsustainable and that the un security council will have to address this when it looks at it on 19 december. the european council will have to take stock of the situation, and it should reaffirm the european union’s commitment to solving kosovo’s status and to playing a leading role in implementing a settlement, the framework being, as many of you have mentioned, the european perspective for the whole region. finally, this council, together with the signature of the treaty and the proclamation of the charter, does not, perhaps, draw a line under the events of 2005, but it marks the beginning of a new phase of the development of the european union. we have learnt the lessons of 2005, and i hope that we can enter the next 50 years of the union with, hopefully, much more confidence.
that concludes this item. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i have to say, madam president, i would ask you to persuade the members to sit down and take part in the vote, because we need the majority. this is very important for the next three reports. otherwise we will have a problem tomorrow with the vote on the 2008 budget. i would ask you to ask the members to sit down and take part in the vote, otherwise we have a serious problem.
the european council has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is a very important step forward. it is a great pleasure to welcome you today to the heart of european democracy, the european parliament, on the occasion of the solemn signing of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this is a happy day, above all for the citizens of the european union. fifty years after the founding fathers of europe created the european communities from the ruins of a continent in ruins, we are celebrating today the expression of our common values at the heart of our european identity. the charter of fundamental rights which we are proclaiming today symbolizes the important path towards a union of citizens which we have travelled together over the last fifty years. this charter proves that, with the founding of the european union, we have learned the most important lesson in the history of europe: respect for the dignity of every individual, the preservation of freedom, peace and democracy, and the rule of law are still the driving force behind european unity. freedom cannot come without respect for the rights of others, peace cannot come without fair balance between each other. freedom, peace, justice and social welfare are only possible with each other, not against each other. the founding fathers understood this and established europe as a community of law. in the european union, it is not power that has the right, but the right that has the power. this is the modern and forward-looking aspect of our european community of values. only justice can secure peace for all of us! that vision has come true. the european parliament has been a major force in the struggle between freedom and democracy on the one hand and dictatorship and the lawlessness of the individual on the other. the miracle of our generation is the overcoming of the division of our continent. the fall of the iron curtain and the admission of 12 countries to the european union were made possible because the call for freedom and democracy, the power of equal rights for all people, was stronger than the dehumanizing ideologies of the twentieth century. the berlin declaration adopted on 25 march this year to mark the 50th anniversary of the treaties of rome states an important fact: 'today we, the citizens of the european union, are united in our happiness' and 'it is our happiness that freedom, democracy and human rights have become a reality for all of us in the european union'. with today's solemn proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights, we now have the great obligation and opportunity to make clear to the people of the european union, to those nearly 500 million citizens, and to the generations of tomorrow, what the very essence of european unity is. the european union, ladies and gentlemen, is not just about economic calculations of costs and benefits. all of this is important and will continue to influence our lives in the european union. but first and foremost we are a community of values, we live every day solidarity, freedom and equality. these common values, whose core is the respect for the inviolability of human dignity enshrined in article 1 of the charter of fundamental rights, are the foundation of european unity. (applause from the centre) the european parliament therefore considered that legally binding recognition of the charter of fundamental rights was an essential part of any agreement on the reform of the european treaties. and here the european parliament has been able to prevail: the reference to the charter of fundamental rights in article 6 of the lisbon treaty, which will be signed by the heads of state or government tomorrow, gives the charter the same legally binding character as the treaties themselves. the european union has a long history of respecting fundamental rights and human rights, and the european union has a long history of respecting them. (applause from the centre) the human person and his dignity are at the heart of our policy. the european union thus provides a framework which enables us, as citizens of the european union, to make peaceful progress towards our common future. without this clear foundation of values, which we must constantly remind ourselves of, the european union has no future. we would not be entitled to defend human rights in the world if we failed to recognise our own values as the law of the european union. (applause from the centre) and we will not let anyone - whether in the european union or outside the european union - restrict us in our resolute defence of human rights. we, as the european parliament, have a moral and political obligation to defend human dignity at all times! (applause from the centre) in our world today, we europeans must act as a community of values, upholding the dignity of the human person and seeking dialogue between cultures. we must do this with confidence and we must do it with unwavering commitment. and no one will stop us! (applause from the centre) the charter of fundamental rights was drawn up using a new, open and democratic convention method for the first time in the history of european unification. this method proved to be very successful and the convention became the model and starting point for the whole reform process. the european parliament was particularly involved in the drafting of the charter of fundamental rights and had a decisive influence on the content of the text. the charter of fundamental rights, for the first time, enshrines economic and social rights and political rights and freedoms on an equal footing. fundamental rights are protected in the field of action of the union and in the application of community law. and the charter of fundamental rights provides all citizens of the european union with legal recourse to the european court of justice in luxembourg. we hope that the day will come when the charter of fundamental rights will become law for all member states. (applause from the centre) i would like to appeal to everyone: fundamental and human rights are indivisible. in the interests of all citizens of the european union, all the states of the union should unitedly join this european consensus. the solemn declaration today should also be an occasion for all citizens, who can claim their own rights under the charter of fundamental rights, to become aware of their duties towards the european community, the world and future generations. there are no rights without duties. it is solidarity that unites us. (applause from the centre) we are creating a europe of citizens and giving our european union a solid foundation of common basic democratic rights. today's solemn proclamation shows that our community of values is alive and growing. today, this community of values is being anchored in the european people and is being put to the heart of the people of the european union. today is a great success for the citizens of the european union and we can all be very happy about it. (applause from the centre)
i'm asking that the banners be taken down now. please be courteous to our guest here in the european parliament. mr president of the european council, i would ask you to speak to us now.
acting president of the council. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today, in a solemn session of the european parliament, we proclaim the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and i want to make it clear to you that this day - 12 december - will henceforth be a key date in the history of european integration. a key date in the history of europe. (applause) i would like to thank (noise in the ni and ind/dem counter.)
i'm asking you to be patient. i think that the commission should at least have the decency to let our speaker finish. mr president, i call the commission.
acting president of the council. as much as many may shout and try to stop others from speaking, this is a key date in european history. and i also want to tell you that this date, and this ceremony, is probably the most important ceremony that i have the honor of participating in. the most important ceremony of my entire political career. i am very honoured as a european to sign a charter and to proclaim a charter of fundamental rights and i am particularly honoured that this proclamation is taking place during the portuguese presidency. i am honoured as a european and i am honoured as a portuguese, especially since it was during our presidency in 2000 that the convention which gave rise to this charter began its work. that is why i want to tell parliament that it is an honour for my country to be associated in this way with an important stage in the project of european citizenship. this charter represents a commitment to the core values of european civilization, values rooted in the defence of the dignity of the human person, and we are here to proclaim that we are faithful to these values, values which derive both from the constitutional tradition common to the member states of the union, but also from international legal instruments, such as the universal declaration of human rights and the european convention on human rights. and to underline this compatibility, the treaty of lisbon itself provides for the union's accession to the council of europe convention and thus recognises what the protection of fundamental rights means today in contemporary democracies. that is why today is a very important day because from today, and perhaps to the discomfort of some, fundamental rights formally and irreversibly become part of the common heritage of the union, which is an ethical heritage, a political heritage, a heritage of citizenship and a heritage of the best of european civilization. but this charter is also an instrument for political action, an instrument for the institutions, because the charter guides their activity. they must also respect the rights and principles of the charter and promote its application, but it is also an instrument of action for citizens, because it shows that the union project is a citizens' project and shows that the union is at the service of citizens and that it protects and promotes their rights. the charter also reflects human dignity in the field of social rights in the european context. that is why it also has a social component, because it projects human dignity in the world of work, in the world of employment, in the world of health, in the field of social protection and assistance, and also human dignity in relation to the protection of the environment. this is also the charter of equality and solidarity, the charter for combating all forms of discrimination, and it is a charter for equality because it devotes special attention, the special attention we give to children and young people, to equality between men and women, to the role of the elderly, and to the important body of legislation on the protection of personal rights and personal data. i would also like to stress the freedoms enshrined in the charter linked to european citizenship and the political rights associated with it, and the economic freedoms which are the basis of the treaty of rome, of which we are celebrating the fifth anniversary this year. we therefore remain true to our tradition and reiterate the prohibition of the death penalty and i particularly welcome the decision taken by the council last week to establish a european day against the death penalty. finally, i would like to emphasize that the charter reconciles citizens' rights with the rights of persons, aiming at a universe of recipients that goes beyond the citizens of the member states themselves, and this is no less important because it now represents a fundamental pillar of our conviction that a better world is a world in which these rights and freedoms are universally respected. this charter will henceforth be at the service of the european union's external policy aimed at a world in which all these rights and freedoms are universally respected and guaranteed. it is therefore a guide, a guide to the european union's position on the international scene and to the action it intends to take to ensure that fundamental rights are respected worldwide. that is why european citizens can thus recognize themselves in a union which is their union. they can recognise the rights which the union guarantees them and understand that europe is a project of peace and democracy and a project in which the rights of the individual are fully respected. this is our moral authority and this is the meaning of this ceremony, which unites the three institutions and we proclaim this charter on the eve of the signing of the treaty of lisbon, a charter with a legal value which is the precise legal value of a fundamental law and a legal value which is equivalent to the value of the treaties for the benefit of many and to the displeasure of a few. this charter is in the treaty. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.) (repeated noises in the ni and ind/dem counter.)
you should at least have the decency to let the speaker finish. loudness is not an argument. leave the room!
acting president of the council. in a globalised world where many argue that economic and financial rules are absolute, the fact that 27 european states within the union have reiterated this firm commitment to values and objectives of safeguarding and protecting fundamental rights is a significant contribution to the regulation of globalisation itself. fundamental rights are a common tradition of democratic states governed by the rule of law, a means of limiting power and a fundamental instrument for protecting the individual. by binding the institutions of the union and the states, the charter limits power and limits power in the name of the protection and interests of citizens and their organisations. and by enshrining this limitation of power, the limits of its application strictly observe the principle of subsidiarity and reinforce the eminently democratic nature of the union itself. the defence of fundamental rights is admittedly an essential value of european identity, it is part of our genetic code, it is an element that structures the whole european project and that allows europe to be defined as a union of values, and the unconditional affirmation of these values is also what the world expects from europe. that is the europe i want to belong to, a europe which defends these values. and we are fully aware, i and all the members, that the fight for fundamental rights is a daily task and probably an endless task, a task of states, a task of civil societies, a task of companies and trade unions, a task of individual citizens. that is why, in proclaiming the charter, we welcome the agreement reached on it and the recognition of its legal value on an equal footing with the union's own treaties. but more than a day of congratulations, the proclamation of this charter represents a commitment by the union's institutions to respect it and to apply it in their daily work. only in this way will we be equal to european history, only in this way will we be worthy and heirs to the best of our collective identity and our common tradition: a collective identity and a common tradition that honour a europe that fights for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of its citizens. thank you all so much. (the house will again give the speaker a standing ovation, with the exception of the gue/ngl, the nis and the ind/dem.)
i am not going to go into detail. i'd like to inform you of the following, and i'd like to ask that we all remain calm now: the king of jordan is in the european parliament. he will speak to us immediately after this solemn proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights. i also ask, with respect to our guest from jordan, that we do not interrupt now, but bring this proclamation to a dignified conclusion.
president of the commission. mr president of the european parliament, mr prime minister of portugal and mr president of the council of the european union, members of the european parliament, on the eve of the signing of the treaty of lisbon, the presidents of the three political institutions of the european union - the european parliament, the council and the commission - are signing the european charter of fundamental rights here in strasbourg. it is a great personal honour for me to take part in an event of such high significance. the proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights enshrines a culture of law in europe. in the european union, which is first and foremost a community of law, institutional changes require greater respect for fundamental rights. honourable members, today the three european institutions reaffirm their commitment the commitment they made in december 2000 when the charter was proclaimed for the first time. but, seven years later, we go a crucial step further. the charter of 2000 was not legally binding. with the signing of the treaty of lisbon tomorrow, and then ratification, the charter will be part of the primary law of the union and will have the same legal value as the treaties themselves. this progress will have very concrete benefits for european citizens. let me illustrate this point by looking briefly at the content of the charter. the 54 articles cover rights that until now had to be recognised by the court of justice on a case-by-case basis. now they are brought together. the charter, recognising the basic principles of human dignity, incorporates first of all the classic civil liberties already included in the european convention on human rights: freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom of religion, equality before the law and the principle of non-discrimination. the charter also confirms economic and social rights. it includes the right to property and the freedom to conduct business, but at the same time the rights of workers and of the social partners, and it enshrines topics such as social security and social assistance. the charter also covers the new challenges facing society today. it therefore includes guarantees on data protection, on bioethics and on good administration, known as third-generation rights. these will be highly relevant in many of our areas of activity, be it in research policy, in the area of freedom, security and justice or in our permanent quest for good governance. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the charter encourages the european union to be anchored in a genuine culture of fundamental rights. by signing this charter of fundamental rights today, we, the presidents of the three political institutions of the european union, are above all committed to respecting these rights in our own action. at first sight, this commitment might seem easy to maintain but, in reality, it is a daily challenge to ensure the best possible respect for civil liberties in all the policies of the european union, whether it be in legislating on the internal market, managing immigration or trying to combat terrorism. the charter is the first legally binding document ever produced at international level which brings together not only political and civil rights but also economic and social rights in a single text, subject to the same mechanisms of judicial review. this is without doubt a major success of which the european union must be proud. it is, i think, particularly significant that this should be possible in this new enlarged europe, this europe which was divided by totalitarian and authoritarian regimes which did not respect human rights, but this europe we have today, which is a europe united around the values of freedom and solidarity. (applause from the centre) if we combine our efforts to stimulate this culture of human rights, we will make an essential contribution to a true europe of values, a europe of tangible and credible values in the eyes of its citizens. with this charter, europe is more determined to promote its values on a world scale. since the universal declaration of human rights, europe has always been at the forefront of the fight for fundamental rights. from today onwards, europe is even better equipped to win successfully this fight for freedom, for peace and for democracy. (the sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a very special honour for the european parliament to welcome the king of the hashemite kingdom of jordan, his majesty abdullah ii, to strasbourg today. welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre) i also welcome, accompanied by king abdullah ii, his high-level delegation, in particular the presidents of the two jordanian parliaments. (applause from the centre) today's visit by the king is the third since 2002, when the king addressed the european parliament for the first time. in november 2004, the king attended the conference of presidents in brussels. his visit today and his speech here in the european parliament are both a sign of the good partnership between the kingdom of jordan and the european parliament and a good signal for our common future in the mediterranean. your majesty, i have prepared a very long speech. but since we have had to put you on hold for a while, i will cut my speech short and simply say to you: it is wonderful that you are with us, and it is a pleasure to ask you now to speak to us. (applause from the centre)
king of the hashemite kingdom of jordan. bismillah ar-rahman ar-rahim, mr president, members of parliament, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your warm welcome and, on behalf of the people of jordan, i am honoured to come before this distinguished institution again. my friends, a changing europe and a changing middle east are here today. a europe of expanding membership and a visionary mission: for cooperation across borders and growth without barriers. a middle east of new horizons and growing hope: for peace among neighbours, opportunities for our people and a future for our youth. these trends do not take place in isolation. the achievement of the hopes of our regions will advance stability and create new possibilities for security and prosperity worldwide. it is deeply in our interest to succeed. and a critical opportunity is before us. two weeks ago, with the support of the european union and nations from both our regions, israelis and palestinians met at annapolis. they pledged all-out negotiations toward a peace treaty in 2008 and immediate steps to implement their obligations under the road map. for the first time in years, we see movement towards a permanent settlement and an independent, sovereign, viable palestinian state. (applause) this progress is the work of many friends of peace, including leaders in europe and the arab states. we believed that, after years of worsening crisis, a change of strategy was required. we urged a new commitment to the two-state goal and a targeted process that could achieve it – with tight timelines, measurable requirements and milestones for action. second chances are rare, but i believe we have come to one. very real challenges lie ahead, but annapolis has created a new spark of hope. we can and must fan that spark into a blaze of confidence, action and tangible results. as our near neighbour, europe shares our interest in solving this, the central crisis of our age. all sides respect europe’s neutral role and model of regional progress and peace. for years, you have been our partner in the search for solutions. and you will be our partner, too, in the benefits of success: a vibrant zone of peace and prosperity throughout our shared hemisphere. these realities give europe an important and prominent role in the future of peace. i speak especially of the european union, and you, the voices of europe, here in the european parliament. and i have come here today to urge your active engagement, to seek your specific, practical skills and investment in the future, and to offer jordan’s own commitment in the days of work that lie ahead. my friends, there are major areas where action must begin now. the first is to support the negotiations and their goal: a final settlement creating an end to conflict, security for both palestine and israel, and at long last, a sovereign, independent and viable palestinian state. (applause)we must not underestimate the difficult days ahead. the issues are complex and decades old. real grievances must be faced – and left behind. on the positive side, israelis and palestinians understand their deep, shared stake in ending the conflict. and a great amount of work has already been done. from oslo, through the road map, through the geneva accords, and other initiatives, the parameters of the solutions are in focus. i believe the parties can get to the endgame. but for this to happen, it is vital that the international community be engaged. europe has a unique experience of the mechanisms and process of post-conflict recovery and reconciliation. this includes creating a security framework that can offer assurance to both sides. european peacekeeping forces have played a constructive role in lebanon. your commitment can help bring great trust to a palestinian-israeli settlement. on the ground, there is a need, not only for resources but for partnership – to boost economic opportunities, create confidence that the political process works, and help create the conditions that will sustain peace. both palestinians and israelis need to see tangible results, and quickly. that means security from violence and an end to occupation; but it also means better conditions of life. in the occupied territories, the humanitarian situation for palestinians remains dire. people need access to jobs and education, effective public services and more. such action will provide a major infusion of hope and be a powerful counter-argument to extremist predictions that nothing can change. next week, donor nations and institutions will meet in paris to make commitments and plan the way forward. european nations and the european union are already providing help, a commitment respected by people throughout the region. a second and related imperative is to understand and articulate the potential of peace. we must begin now to re-envision the future: a region where conflict has given way to cooperation, where a regional economy brings together the capabilities and resources of 22 countries – more than 300 million people, from the atlantic to the indian ocean – and where cross-border partnerships advance development, health, the environment and more. it is a future that empowers people to be full participants in global progress. and it will unleash a new scope of partnership with our european neighbours, in science, technology and trade. this promising future is why we must move swiftly on a comprehensive settlement, with action on the syrian and lebanese tracks. indeed, the entire arab world has recognized the importance of moving forward. the arab peace initiative was affirmed, unanimously, last spring. and it has received the support of muslim countries beyond the region. the opportunity is here, at long last, for a sovereign, independent, and viable palestinian state and full, normal relations between israel and 57 arab and muslim nations. this means acceptance; acceptance by key countries, with billions of citizens, representing almost a third of the membership of the united nations. and that opens a shared future of security, peace and new partnerships. achieving such a peace will also make a substantial impact on other issues. within the region, it will create new strategic space, allowing the resolution of other serious issues, from poverty to proliferation. aggressive forces will no longer be able to exploit the palestinian cause to serve their own ambitions and interests. (applause) resources and attention will be freed to advance the region’s potential through development and reform. we in jordan are ready to meet that future. we have pressed forward with our reform programme, despite regional instability. in the last decade, we have achieved significant gains: strong economic growth, rising per capita incomes, and a model education system. and europe has been an important partner, through private-sector investments, as well as official assistance. allow me to say that we deeply appreciate the support and friendship of this parliament and the european union. (applause)and we believe that in the days after peace, our partnership can only soar higher. my friends, today we can think of a larger neighbourhood, one that stretches from north of the baltic sea to south of the mediterranean, one that is shared by europe and the middle east. it is the basis of the euromed partnership, our region-to-region platform for cooperation and development. it is a relationship with great shared interests and unlimited potential. and it is up to us to develop our partnership to its fullest. today, young europeans are coming to adulthood who never knew a divided europe. their young counterparts, palestinian and israeli, have no such positive experience. they have grown up in a world of division and conflict. now, together, we have an opportunity to remove the barriers to their future, and leave the past behind. today, the european parliament represents significantly more member states than when i spoke before parliament only five years ago. that is the result of a region-wide commitment to increase the zone of partnership and progress. the middle east is tackling the same important task. now, together, we can help that work succeed. today, a renewed peace process has begun. we have seen such beginnings fail in the past. but this time, a unique confluence of events has created new openings for success. now, together, we can and we must, fulfil the promise of peace. (applause)my friends, we in jordan know that when an olive tree takes life, planting is only the first step. a hundred processes are then activated to create the cells and structures of life. roots emerge, growth occurs, and a core of strength ensures survival. from outside comes water and support to sustain life and create new fruit. in the arena of the middle east, a new olive branch has just been planted. now the real work must begin. it is in our hands to create the process and structures that will give peace roots, help it grow and sustain it into the future. i urge you to share in this effort. our partnership can create an historic transformation and a rich harvest – years of peace and prosperity that will benefit our peoples and our world.
your majesty, we thank you for your visit to the european parliament. we thank you for this great speech. we are all – and the applause showed this – deeply touched by your convictions. there are few personalities, few leaders, who are as committed as you to peace in the middle east. you call us friends, and i say to you, on behalf of the european parliament: we are at your side to create a palestinian state that can live in safety...(applause)... and to have a state of israel that can live in safety. we in the european parliament believe in the dignity of the human being, and the dignity of the human being applies to each human being in this world. (applause) your majesty, we want close cooperation with your country and you are one of the very few who have visited the european parliament more than once. we in the european parliament and the european union want a strong partnership, relationship and, if possible, friendship with all countries in the middle east. we are at your side. let us work together. shukran jazilan. thank you, your majesty.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in view of the solemn meeting with the king of jordan, i am sure that none of my colleagues, the chairmen of the political groups, took the opportunity to make a statement on the basis of our rules of procedure on the events that have occurred. i want to do this now. i think i speak on behalf of many colleagues when i first thank the president of this house, mr barroso, and mr sócrates, for the dignified way in which you have defended this solemn act, namely the signing of the charter of fundamental rights. you've had the overwhelming support of this house. (applause from the centre) i would like to say two things to the house, and i say them in my own name, not in the name of my group. i'm speaking for myself. i would like to make one point to the house as chairman of the group of the party of european socialists. it is not customary to report from the conference of presidents. but you should know, ladies and gentlemen, that the only group leader who asked to be invited to the conference of presidents to attend the signing of the treaty in lisbon was mr bonde. i think the house should know that. no other group leader has asked for this. mr bonde, who is shouting about this, was very keen to be present when the treaty was signed. that's one of the double standards we have to live with here. another point i would like to make is this: i learned as a student in a german high school that in the reichstag of the weimar republic there was a strategy to shout down the political opponent, and that was by chorus. the group that introduced this was the group of adolf hitler. i felt like i remembered it today. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, today, transitional periods were finally introduced for child claims. the commission has forgotten this and wanted to put this black peter in parliament's hands. we stopped it, we didn't let that black peter push us around. we have forced the commission to make a statement that it is necessary to introduce transitional periods for children's claims as well. the only problem is that the commission's refusal to make such a proposal for so long has led to a distortion of competition. products have already been withdrawn from the market because the regulation had entered into force in the meantime. so this is a major craftsman's mistake on the part of the commission. i also tabled an amendment on behalf of my group to delete article 4. it was a political demonstration. we still think that this regulation is nonsensical. it is not possible to create nutritional profiles for all foods. almost half of this house holds that view. efsa has now stated that it does not consider itself able to document all products with nutritional profiles. bureaucracy, nonsense, a law that is not needed!
i have to say, madam president, today's vote on the reform of the wine market is a very great success for the european parliament and the various wine regions and winegrowers. we have thus been able to establish that enrichment of wine with sucrose is still possible. the commission's plans to set out now the lifting of the ban on new plantings in 2014 have been rejected by parliament. here we have proposed a workable solution, by advocating that the decision on liberalisation be taken only after a study is available in 2012. we have also reached agreement on the labelling of the various wines, which takes due account of the different wine-labelling systems in europe. we have also succeeded in including the protection of the special bottle shapes in our region of france, the protection of the goat's bag, in the wine market regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the responsibility now lies with the council, and we as parliament have done our job very well.
in writing. the commission intends to take account of the specific characteristics of wine regions by creating a cmo with more responsibility and more scope for development. the european parliament has today put these ideas into practice. we are convinced of our proposals, which have been found by all members, across all member states. the wine industry in europe is part of our culture. here in europe is the home of wine growing worldwide. the wine industry is an economy, an income and a source of employment. it is not the commission's task to seek a market equilibrium by limiting our production or making it impossible by changing conditions. but it is their job to secure market share and to ensure that our products are properly represented worldwide. the aim must not be to limit the market but to conquer new markets. why should we change the winemaking methods where there are no sales problems?! it's part of an ancient culture and winemaking tradition. the european parliament has today reaffirmed its clear position in favour of more market measures, national budgets and regional flexibility, a socially compatible phasing-out of intervention measures and the maintenance of the existing oenological practices, i.e. sucrose and rtk, on an equal footing with each other through further rtk support. i hope that our proposals will be incorporated into the new common organization of the market in wine.
the next item is the commission statement on the eu-china summit.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we all have to ask ourselves what kind of political relationship we want to have with china. mr sterckx has just spoken once again about the strategic partnership and rightly so. i think that is a very desirable goal. but we have to be realistic, we don't have that yet because we don't have a common foundation of values - human rights, treatment of minorities, death penalty - there is de facto no strategic partnership yet. i think it is very right, and i say this quite consciously as a green german mep, that angela merkel has met the dalai lama, because they take human rights seriously. which i don't think is right at all. when president sarkozy spoke here the other day, he said that human rights must be the european union's banner, so that three weeks later he could go to china and not talk about human rights there. this is european double standards, and we must not allow it! i firmly believe that our dialogue with china - which i support and which we must also want politically - includes confrontation and not petting. if we are to combine this with a self-confident approach to china, we must be very critical. the chinese must also respect the goals they have set themselves in the olympic games, and we europeans should be courageous and open and confront the chinese with our criticism.
i have to say, madam president, the eu-china human rights dialogue has been held behind closed doors twice a year for 11 years, but it has not improved the human rights situation in china. the reports of executions, torture in prisons and labour camps and the oppression of tibetans make it clear that we europeans are not living up to our responsibilities. the olympic games are coming up and are an important argument for china to seriously demonstrate its will to reform. at the same time, we must not speak with a divided tongue. it is very good that chancellor merkel has received the dalai lama despite the fierce criticism. it would only be consistent if belgium, france and other countries followed suit. the eu is being accepted worldwide as the voice of human rights and we must finally act consistently, including in dialogue with china.
member of the commission. madam president, this debate again shows that societal change takes time, and i think we always have to remember where china has come from. i think we also have to acknowledge a certain progress, as i said at the beginning. but, at the same time, it is true that we are not yet where we would like to see china. therefore, i think the human rights dialogue – also accompanied by the ngo seminar – remains the cornerstone for addressing our human rights concerns with china. however, i think we need to be determined but also realistic. determined to convince china that it is in its own best interest to establish full respect for human rights across the board. realistic, because we need to recognise that only through engagement and long-term effort can we really hope to achieve genuine reforms in china. in this context, i would also like to say that the continued holding of the ngo seminar is in the mutual interest of both china and the european union. this has also just been confirmed by the summit. i think, therefore, there is a good chance that, back-to-back with the next human rights dialogue under the slovenian presidency, we will be able to resume this civil society seminar. on a few other questions, let me just say that human rights were also mentioned in the joint statement that is there, and i will just read out the first few lines. ‘the two sides emphasised their commitment to the promotion and protection of human rights and continued to place a high value on the eu-china human rights dialogue, including the accompanying legal seminar.’ you see: there it is. they underline the importance of concrete steps in the fields of human rights and affirm their commitment to further strengthening dialogue and so on. i would also like to say that there are a few concrete points that were highlighted in this discussion on which we want to see progress, such as the falun gong. the situation of falun gong followers who have been subject to repression because of their beliefs remains a matter of concern for us. we raised this issue several times, and more particularly on the occasion of the sessions of the human rights dialogue. we asked, and will continue to ask, the chinese authorities to put an end to the harsh treatment imposed on falun gong followers. concerning the death penalty, i have said before that this issue is high on our agenda, and in this framework we have been urging china – and will continue along these lines – to reduce the scope of capital crimes, with a view to ultimately abolishing the death penalty. a first step would be to impose a moratorium on implementation. then, as i said in my introductory remarks, would come a review of death penalty sentences by the supreme court as a first step which would be continuously monitored. i think the debate has shown very clearly that there is a mixed picture: there is progress, but there is still a lot to be done, and i can only say we will further engage with china in order to encourage china to make progress. i think the olympic games will be a good opportunity for china to show that more progress has been made by then.
the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2007.
the next item is the commission statement on combating the rise of extremism in europe.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express my personal concern at the increase in activities in europe which are being carried out by violent and extremist organisations and groups. i think that the debate today is extremely important, because it is obvious that not only the extremism that leads to terrorist acts - the extremism we have spoken of many times in this house - but also those activities and phenomena that are more properly racist, anti-semitic, xenophobic, nationalist, islamophobic, all those forms of intolerance that, as i said, are worryingly present in europe, are absolutely incompatible, i would say, with the values of the european charter of fundamental rights that we proclaimed this morning. and it's clear that extremism by its very nature leads to division and leads to violence. the first objective, in my view, is a political one. of course, i will then refer to actions which are more specifically security and police, but we are faced with the phenomenon of extremism and its origins, the need to promote once again a european union that is even closer to the citizens and therefore more capable of conveying messages of tolerance, solidarity and respect for that charter, which is now one of the milestones binding on the member states and on the citizens. i think we can agree that extremism can never be justified, we have said this many times about terrorism, but we must also say it about racism, for example, xenophobia; but we also need to explore what are, i would say, the deep roots that can lead to extremist demonstrations, to violent demonstrations. we have a duty to do so, because we have a duty to put european political action in motion, which can contribute even more than that to counteracting, i would say preventing and eradicating, extremist phenomena and activities. i can give some examples which, in my view, demonstrate how european political action can be really useful, much more useful, i dare say, than a policy on a national basis alone. we think of citizens' participation in the political life of europe, think how important it is that this programme - which is not by chance a project financed by the european commission and called citizenship and fundamental rights - contains certain lines and actions which promote strong participation by citizens in political life, in the life of the institutions and therefore, for example, in events such as the european elections. and we will have a great opportunity in 2009 to encourage a debate, which leads to a large turnout as a sign of positive participation in the life of the institutions. but it is clear that the other political action we expect from europe, and which europe wants to promote, is action on education, especially for the younger generations. i believe that this too - a policy to keep alive the memory of past tragedies and to do so with the younger generation of today, with students, with young people, even very young people - is extremely important. for example, all the programmes we support and which i believe should be encouraged even more, which keep alive the memory of the victims of all the dictatorships, of all the totalitarian regimes which have devastated our europe in the past, i believe this is a useful tool to help eradicate extremism, racism, showing how from the history of the death camps, for example, we can draw a lesson for the young people of today, because such tragedies never happen again, not only on european territory but anywhere in the world. and then there is another political action that i believe should be remembered: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area. we have two great opportunities, we have the opportunity this year, which is the european year of equal opportunities for all and we will take stock of the initiatives that have been carried out during this year but we have the opportunity in 2008, which is the european year of multicultural dialogue, of dialogue between different cultures and between civilizations. i believe that the 2007 budget and the 2008 programme will be a good opportunity to raise the collective consciousness and, i repeat, the consciousness of the younger generation in particular, in a spirit of enriching dialogue, dialogue that makes us all grow together. it is certainly important that the public's conscience be kept alive on the importance of promoting rights and eradicating extremism, violence, intolerance. and here the european agency for fundamental rights has a role to play, we wanted it, this parliament strongly supported it, this agency will be an instrument as it has been in the past for a very important area, such as the fight against anti-semitism, as the vienna observatory against racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism was. the agency, as the main actor in this field, will also have a very important role to play. and in this, as you know, we are preparing the multiannual framework, we are discussing it in excellent cooperation with mr cashman, and we are convinced that from the agency's multiannual programmatic framework, we will find useful tools for our joint action to prevent extremism. then, of course, beyond that, we have to act for the reaction: all these are important prevention policies, but we also need to react. i have fought, i would say personally, also in the council of ministers, to finally arrive at a european law - and we reached agreement on this last april - so that there is, as i said, a european law that punishes concrete racist and xenophobic behaviour, so that those who commit these acts are punished in any country of the european union, according to the same criteria. because not only the physical act, but also the concrete incitement, the spreading of hatred, these messages that frankly should not be confused with freedom of expression, which is a sacred right for all of us. we're talking about actual incitement to strike, to commit violence. this framework decision was agreed by the member states last april. think of those horrible manifestations of racism: the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. i say they will punish, using the future, because unfortunately, and i appeal to your sensitivity too, since april the national parliamentary reservations of some countries have not yet been lifted, so the procedure for the entry into force of this european law to punish racism and xenophobia is blocked. i say this with the utmost respect for the national parliaments, but remembering that when the government sitting in the council of ministers agrees, i believe that it must also be involved in some way with its own parliament, so that the reserve is dissolved quickly, and we can finally have this framework decision, after three and a half years of long debate, come into force. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we already have legislation in other areas which punishes discrimination on the basis of race or ethnicity, and this legislation will certainly be enforced by the supervision, let us say, of the european commission, which is obliged to enforce european legislation. i would remind you, for example, of the recent directive on the audiovisual media, the so-called frontier-free media, which states very clearly when it comes into force that audiovisual media must not contain incitement to hatred based on sexual difference, race, religion or nationality. so, to do all this, police measures are not enough, criminal law is not enough, indictments are not enough: we need a profound culture of the rights of the individual, of the value of the human person! what we said this morning when we were celebrating the european charter of fundamental rights! i believe that this is one of the policies, at a time when we are entering the ratification phase of the treaty of lisbon, one of the policies in which europe can show that it is teaching the world how to eradicate within its borders these hateful acts against the human person.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you wouldn't believe it. i was invited to an event four, five weeks ago -- it was a counter-demonstration to an event of right-wing parties in my region. there were only 30 radicals who demonstrated, and a large contingent of over a thousand people demonstrated against the right-wing radicals. and then when you're standing in front of these right-wing radicals, you say to yourself, "i can't believe it". how can one be extremist again, arrogant again, full of hatred and arrogance and agitating against others? the debate we are having today is good and important. extremism is a cancer on our society. we as politicians are constantly calling for civil courage, for citizens to stand up and protest against this extremism. i think it's also time to say thank you, because there's a lot of this civil courage, there's a lot of this standing up. what is extreme? i would like to emphasize that when we talk about banning parties, that is, banning assessments and positions, this must not, of course, be a political judgment. there must be an objective criterion behind it. we have defined this objective criterion today. it's the bill of rights, which says what our core values are. if parties, if politicians, take action against it, then the courts have to decide that it's not right and then it has to be banned. what is to be done when extreme parties are elected, when electoral successes are there? firstly, there must be no cooperation with these parties. i would also like to thank my socialist colleagues who have excluded their slovak member party from their party family because there is cooperation there. secondly, we must not overlook that this electoral success is also linked to the discontent of citizens, but it must not lead to the insult of voters, but we must address the issues. thirdly, i would like to emphasise that we must see that extremism, even in the political landscape, often starts with small steps. so i say, defend the beginnings! political extremism exists on the left and on the right, both are equally bad, and this must be emphasized. europe has experienced extremism, europe has suffered from extremism. there is progress in the fight against extremism. it's worth the fight. we'll win in the end!
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank mr vernola for this very solid report, which is due to be adopted at a very crucial stage of our relations with montenegro. let me first make a point on the european perspective of the western balkans. the council meeting of eu foreign ministers on monday reaffirmed that the future of the western balkans lies in the european union. as proof of that we have in the last two months signed a stabilisation and association agreement with montenegro and initialled saas both with serbia and with bosnia-herzegovina. i want to thank the portuguese presidency for its major contribution to these encouraging steps. i hope we can soon sign the two latter agreements, once the conditions have been met by these two countries. montenegro has made good progress since independence, including in the development of smoother, well functioning relations with serbia. of course a decisive step on montenegro’s european journey was taken on 15 october this year when we signed the saa with the country. i welcome the unanimous ratification of the saa by the montenegrin parliament soon thereafter. the saa provides a stable framework for economic, political and institutional development in montenegro and it is a significant step forward in the country’s european integration path, provided that the agreement is properly implemented. in another positive development, i also welcome the adoption of the constitution of montenegro only a few days after the saa was signed. the new constitution, which is broadly in line with european standards, helps strengthen democratic institutions in the country. its full implementation will require further efforts and determination. the commission’s regular progress report, adopted on 6 november, highlights these positive developments. it commends montenegro for establishing the necessary legal and institutional framework following independence. it also underlines progress made by montenegro in preparing for the implementation of the saa and strengthening its administrative capacity. our progress report also points out certain key challenges that montenegro will face in the coming years. for instance, montenegro’s administrative capacity remains rather weak and therefore administrative reforms need to be continued at all levels. in the fight against corruption, urgent action is needed to achieve concrete, tangible results. money laundering and organised crime remain areas of concern. these are also highlighted, rightly so, in your report. the new constitution enhances the independence of the judiciary by setting up a new constitutional body, the judicial council, in charge of the appointment and dismissal of judges. the government also adopted a judicial reform strategy for the period 2007-2012. its implementation will certainly be a major challenge but it is clear that montenegro needs to ensure the independence, accountability and professionalism of its judges and prosecutors. montenegro participates actively in regional cooperation. it has good relations with its neighbours. most issues with serbia following independence have been settled. montenegro has also taken a constructive approach to the kosovo status issue, aligning itself with the eu’s position. focus should now be on full implementation of the interim agreement on preparations for the whole saa as well as on the recommendations of the european partnership. montenegro needs to build a solid track record of implementation and of reforms. she has got off to a very good start in the stabilisation and association process and i hope that the country will build on this positive momentum. we are very much looking forward to working even more closely with the government of montenegro, the parliament, other institutions and the civil society of the country on its european reform agenda. i am pleased to inform you that the new commission delegation has been operational since 1 november and is preparing to take over the work carried on by the european agency for reconstruction, in due course as planned. montenegro is expected to receive close to eur 100 million under the instrument for pre-accession in the coming three-year period until 2009. these funds will assist montenegro in such areas as the rule of law, the strengthening of administrative capacity and implementation of the saa. economic and social development and civil society development certainly will be another priority. so i trust we can count on the strong support of the european parliament, which is crucial as always.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this was announced as a debate or statement by the council and the commission. i just wanted to ask where the council is and whether the council will at least come back for question time or perhaps during this debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not on behalf of the epp-ed group, i naturally welcome the progress made by montenegro since its declaration of independence, which very soon led to the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement. of course, the montenegrins should not be putting their hands in the air now, but should actually implement what they have signed. they should follow the lines of action they have set themselves, they should enable their administration to implement the laws they have decided upon. they should ensure that the judiciary is brought to the forefront, that corruption is combated, especially in the administrative and judicial spheres. i know, of course, that the particular situation in the region in the 1990s allowed corruption to take root and that it is very difficult to eradicate it today. but it is not conducive to montenegro's reputation in the european union countries that its name is repeatedly associated with smuggling, corruption and money laundering. the montenegrin politicians must do everything to change this image. after all, our citizens in the european union should welcome montenegro into the european union at some point! it is therefore essential that genuine transparency is introduced into the democratic and market economy development of montenegro. i do not want to discuss everything that has been said today and will be said, nor do i want to address everything that has been said in our resolution. but i would like to emphasize that montenegro is a jewel in the landscape, and its uniqueness must be protected by special measures. that is to say, the new constitution, as marcello vernola has already said, which has declared montenegro an ecological state, must not be an empty promise. the coast and hinterland must be protected and huge investments must be avoided. the nature and cultural-historical sites must be preserved if montenegro is to retain its unique tourist character. and we have plenty of bad examples of this in western europe! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not depleted. the coastal population must be prevented and land and property speculation must be curbed. i'm glad to see that there's obviously a zoning plan for this area now. i welcome the cooperation with the icty and hope that it may lead to mr karadžić being brought to justice at some point. i also very much hope that montenegro will finally create the national agency which will enable the country to open up the participation of its students and trainees in the erasmus and leonardo education programmes. we will meet next week with the delegation of our colleagues from the montenegrin parliament and we will encourage them to support the government in its efforts to get closer to the european union and to combat all the things we have mentioned.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the eu's thessaloniki summit in june 2003 confirmed an eu perspective for the countries of the western balkans. montenegro is the youngest successor state of the former yugoslavia. in 2006, montenegro declared its independence from serbia. since then, relations with the european union have been steadily deepening and montenegro has taken a clear european course. i particularly welcome the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement on 18 october this year, which represents a milestone in relations between montenegro and the eu. it brings a number of benefits to the small balkan state, especially for trade and the economy, as it provides for a free trade area and facilitates investment and business cooperation. a good year after independence, another important goal was achieved. the montenegrin parliament adopted its first constitution on 19 october 2007, which is of particular importance for the identity-building of the young state. it constitutes montenegro as a democratic, civil and ecological state governed by the rule of law. this is a great success. montenegro's path to the eu is still long, but remaining obstacles are being gradually removed. progress is still needed, particularly in the fight against the black economy and corruption. the functioning of a free and independent judiciary, cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for yugoslavia and, above all, the reform processes in the field of democratisation, human rights and minority protection are essential for montenegro and its future in the eu. the focus must first be on the successful implementation of the reforms under the saa. on 1 january 2008, slovenia, also a successor state to yugoslavia, will assume the presidency of the council of the eu. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. security and stability in the western balkans are of particular interest to the region and to europe as a whole. a democratic and stable montenegro can and should play an important role in this. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the prospect of montenegro joining the eu someday - albeit in the distant future - is the main driver for further reform processes. we in the european parliament should support montenegro on its way to the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank mr vernola for his report and for the good cooperation in the committee on foreign affairs. but even greater thanks and congratulations go to our montenegrin colleagues and the commission, who have once again demonstrated that the european perspective is the driving force behind the development of democracy, the rule of law and stability. actually, the process is too slow for me. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. montenegro, the whole of the western balkans, is part of europe. it is in our own interest that there be lasting peace and democracy. we should increase our commitment to the whole region. accept our proposal for a specific western balkans agenda for an intensive economic and environmental partnership. we must get visa-free travel soon! montenegro , please . the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. strengthen their efforts to implement european values. this includes an open atmosphere in which civil society engagement can indeed flourish and unfettered media freedom is a matter of course. finally, strengthen your role as a constructive actor in the whole region, including in the resolution of the issue of kosovo's status. you may also be considering steps towards certain dependencies on non-european countries. i am referring to the signing of the bilateral immunity agreement with the united states and to the unhealthy speculation in land and real estate, which negates environmental protection and prevents a truly sustainable development of their beautiful coastal region. the recent adoption of the objectives of spatial planning is an important first step. so once again, congratulations and encouragement for further progress on the road to european union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the union of independent montenegro with the neighbouring states of serbia, croatia, bosnia-herzegovina and slovenia in 1918 was a voluntary decision. after the breakup of yugoslavia, the voters of montenegro democratically decided in 2006 to no longer be associated with serbia. montenegro thus became the 49th independent state in europe, a state with a majority slavic population but with an albanian majority in the regions bordering albania and kosovo. on a day-to-day basis, it is important that montenegro does not become a haven for foreigners who want to pay less tax and launder black money. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the development of a number of international organisations, including the united nations, the world bank and the international criminal court. the railways must be made usable again and smuggling must be stopped. my group is pleased that the afet committee has accepted our amendments on the living and working conditions of refugees. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the implementation of the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. our proposal to reopen rail services to nikšić on the bosnian border and to shkodër in albania has also been accepted. the neglect of the north-south rail link and the unilateral decision to go for cars, buses and lorries should be stopped urgently. we also welcome the fact that, unlike in his previous report on montenegro, the rapporteur does not call for montenegro's rapid accession to nato. nato membership must not be made a condition for future eu membership. it is also good that there is no renewed call for a neoliberal economic policy that would go even further than what is already happening within the european union. montenegro has the chance to become an eu member state. this is important, also in view of the other states of the former yugoslavia which also wish to join.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. montenegro is not only one of the most beautiful countries on earth, it is the balkan state with the oldest modern tradition of independence. when belgium was founded, montenegro had been independent for centuries and had a state character. i stress this because montenegro is always wrongly presented as an example of a superfluous small state which suddenly became independent by accident. mr markov, montenegro was annexed by its serbian ally after the first world war, and there was no question of voluntary action at that time! there was a mock vote, but that was it. there was a massive freedom movement in this country right up to the 1920's and 1930's. tito then restored his independence within yugoslavia, and it had a right of withdrawal under the tito constitution the yugoslav constitution . when he tried to use this, he was blocked. today it is an independent country on its way to the european union. we must support the democratic forces there. in the minority area - it has been said - it is an example for many others in the region, which is why the minorities supported independence. but what is still needed is the strengthening of an independent education system, such as the franciscan school centre in tuzi near podgorica. private initiatives in education are needed to free this country from its crust. i call on the government to pursue this path of pluralism vigorously, not only in the economy but also in education and in the organisation of the rule of law and democracy. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm faithful to you! i read it recently. i'm loyal to you forever. that was the slogan on some world aids day posters about two weeks ago. the message is that aids is treatable, but not curable. many people, especially younger ones, lose sight of this or do not want to see it. the infection figures already mentioned speak for themselves. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat the spread of hiv and aids. but education must not be limited to poster campaigns or ministerial visits to schools. this kind of thing gets a little bit of attention, maybe even media attention, but it doesn't really change behavior, especially among young people. aids and hiv used to be good for real horror stories in newspapers. many were unsure and fearful because no one knew how dangerous the virus really was. i don't wish that time back, but with the acclimatization of the subject and better tolerated therapies, the problem doesn't automatically attract the same attention as it did in the past. many people have become accustomed to these messages, some even tired of them. it's irrational, but it's real. intelligence has to adapt to these changed conditions. education must actively seek attention, must appeal to differentiated target groups in their own language and with individual messages. we need to take the young people, especially, who are misunderstanding hiv as a negligible risk, mentally where they are and get them to deal with the consequences of the infection. many people still do this, they deal with the consequences, but unfortunately too late, that is, after a doctor or a social worker has told them a positive test result. then the illness that had seemed so abstract and distant is suddenly very real. only if we can get people to address the issue of hiv before they can no longer avoid it, will something be gained. this requires long-term and patient work. the more varied and plastic the better, with offers and projects tailored to target groups. the organised aids relief organisations, for example in germany, can still play an important role in this area if they face up to this changed challenge. unfortunately, this doesn't happen everywhere. today, people living with hiv have a good chance of living a long life, at least in western europe. in other places, such as africa, it is different. we should not rest on this comfortable situation, though.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am pleased to present to you today a report which was unanimously adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. in the run-up to the vote, the future of deposit guarantee schemes has been the subject of a controversial debate in our committee, particularly in the light of existing regional specific problems, but also because of the proximity of the crisis in the us housing market. the commission presented a communication at the end of 2006 on the review of the 1994 deposit guarantee scheme directive. the commission has consulted the parties in advance of drawing up this communication. on the basis of this empirical evaluation of the directive, we can conclude that the objectives of the directive have been basically achieved and that there is no need for legislative amendment at this stage. the increasingly cross-border structure of financial markets in europe, however, requires that we focus more on the issue of cooperation between the different deposit guarantee schemes in europe. the commission has in its communication set out where further improvements in the interests of consumers can be achieved by self-regulatory measures or by changing the way in which the legal bases are handled. we believe that this path should be taken further. we believe that the dynamic process of discussion between the commission, the member states and the efdi, the organisation of deposit guarantee schemes in europe, is a very useful process in order to adapt as quickly as possible to the circumstances. nor is the nordea problem a good reason for calling for a new, costly amendment of the directive at this stage. i am therefore grateful to the commission for its clear statement that the nordea problem, which essentially concerns the question of the repatriation of sums paid, must be solved by the member states themselves. the deposit guarantee schemes in the nordic countries and their supervisory authorities must decide whether to refund the contributions paid or whether to treat the deposit guarantee as insurance and not to issue a refund. this is a fundamental problem, but it is a fundamental problem of the member states. the report can be divided into three main parts: first, a discussion and positioning on the commission's investigation, such as the level of minimum protection, and secondly, in the second part, a discussion on whether the different deposit guarantee schemes in europe lead to unacceptable distortions of competition. the third part deals with the future of crisis and risk management. the first part of my report is very brief, since it has not been controversial and reflects the results of the consultation on deposit guarantee schemes. i think that by saying that the minimum guarantee should be compensated for inflation when the directive is amended, we have balanced the interests of the new and old member states in this matter. i would like to emphasize that each member state and each deposit guarantee institution is already free to go beyond the european minimum level of deposit protection. another important point reflected in the report is the debate on whether the different deposit guarantee schemes and their different forms of financing distort competition. the commission has made some comments and has presented a study which would lead to harmonisation of funding for individual member states. if member states with ex-post systems are now asked to completely redesign their deposit guarantee systems and also bear high costs, it must be clarified beforehand whether the diversity of the systems is at all justified by unacceptable and costly distortions of competition in the internal market. the studies are not available, but this will be an important task for the future. the third part of the report deals with the question of risk and crisis management. the single market and the increasing cross-border interconnection require us to examine whether risk and crisis management functions smoothly in the event of cross-border demand. it is urgent that we have an intensive discussion with all the parties involved. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i believe that empirical studies are essential for the assessment of crisis and risk management for viable arrangements for burden sharing in the event of a cross-border crisis and common methods for early risk identification or the development of a system for introducing risk-based contributions, which should inform the further discussion. i am therefore firmly opposed to the amendment tabled by the pse. this is a way of putting into the open existing distortions of competition which are not currently evidenced. we believe that the process we're in is the right way to go.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as i have said, deposit guarantee schemes have been brought back into the public eye, particularly in recent weeks. the case of northern rock, the rush of hundreds of customers to the bank and the question of investor compensation in the event of the collapse of the institution are still fresh in our minds. this shows only too well that the integration of global financial markets also brings new challenges for europe. the increasing cross-border consolidation in the banking sector raises questions about the appropriate supervision, the adequate protection provided by the safeguard systems and their cross-border cooperation. the minimum level of protection at european level has been set at eur 20 000 since 1994, as we know, but in reality it is much higher in many countries. the financing of safeguard schemes is, however, a matter for the member states and the structures of safeguard institutions vary considerably. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's financial system. in the case of cross-border institutions, the focus is on the design of supervision, in particular group supervision, and on burden-sharing in the event of a crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. before we take legislative action, member states should first of all eliminate the remaining weaknesses in their deposit guarantee schemes. the commission, for its part, should simultaneously - and as soon as possible - carry out targeted investigations into crossborder risk management and a detailed analysis of the financing of each scheme. the findings thus obtained will allow for serious consideration of legislative action at a later stage, if appropriate and necessary.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i have to say, madam president, since the adoption of the ucits directive in 1985, european fund markets have developed rapidly. the directive has since been adapted twice to current market developments, and another modernisation is at the top of the agenda for next year. the commission's reform plan is based on the european parliament's resolution on asset management i of april 2006, which set out the main elements of the reform package. i thank the commission for taking up these recommendations and for putting them into law next year. the present draft resolution, entitled 'asset management ii', is similarly intended to guide the commission's future initiatives. the draft resolution, for example, contains a number of measures which go beyond the forthcoming revision package for next year, but which we consider necessary to make europe's fund industry more competitive. the main points are: firstly, the commission should consider extending the eligible investments to real estate funds and hedge funds. both products contribute to the diversification of the portfolio's risk and are attractive investment options in terms of their returns. in addition to the possibility of portfolio mixing, an eu passport and thus direct access for retail investors to these products should also be considered. we welcome the establishment by the commission of an expert group on open-ended real estate funds and the preparation by the commission of a study on non-harmonised retail client funds. secondly, not only private customers but also professional suppliers and institutional investors should benefit fully from a european single market. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of consumers are applied in the member states. a european private placement scheme can help to remedy this. it must, however, be designed in such a way as not to restrict the existing, sometimes very liberal, systems of the individual member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the second step would be to examine whether this is sufficient or whether there is a need for a generally binding directive. thirdly, the choice of investment products for retail investors is constantly increasing, without relative comparability of product information. this is partly due to the high degree of fragmentation of european legislation. however, for an informed decision to be taken by the individual investor, there must be some comparability between the information requirements and disclosure requirements of the competing products. the different industries should be in fair competition with each other and subject to equal conditions of competition. we therefore call on the commission to review the existing regulatory framework for each product class and to make proposals on how the situation can be improved. the aim is not to achieve full comparability of products. life insurance, certificates and funds are inherently different in legal and structural terms. it is more a question of equivalent information obligations. however, even the greatest transparency is useless if the investor does not have a minimum of knowledge of various financial products and their functioning. it is therefore the responsibility of the member states to promote educational initiatives in this area. fourthly, investors should not only benefit from a wide range of products but also from low costs. however, the european fund landscape is currently extremely fragmented, leading to inefficiencies and excessive costs in comparison with competition, especially with other countries. the commission plans to create a legal framework for fund mergers next year. that's very good. however, the commission is ignoring one of the most important obstacles to crossborder mergers, namely taxation. we therefore call for the tax treatment of crossborder mergers to be the same as that of national mergers, namely tax neutral at investor level. we are not asking for any tax measures to be taken on tax rates and suchlike. we are simply asking that crossborder mergers be treated no differently from domestic ones. fifthly, the extent to which private investors should have access to hedge funds and whether a european legal framework for hedge funds and private equity would make sense will be clarified by parliament in a separate report. the commission should, however, be prepared to participate actively in the international discussions on these issues. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups, for the good cooperation. i hope that the commission will take up our ideas again, as it did the first time, so that we can fully open up the opportunities of the european single market to investors and industry.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have complied with the request to deal with this matter quickly. we're dealing with an emergency here. that's why we're here at this late hour. the question, of course, is: how does this emergency come about? you've already said something about that. i was looking around in the papers and came across the regulation which we are going to change today. this is dated december 17, 2003. this regulation provides that from 1 january 2008: 'the electronic identification referred to in paragraph 1 [...] shall be compulsory for all animals'. there are a few exceptions, but i'll leave them out. and then it says: 'the commission shall submit to the council, before 30 june 2006, a report on the application of the electronic identification scheme, together with appropriate proposals, on which the council shall act by a qualified majority.' well, it was a long time ago. the commission's report to the council has obviously not been submitted, and there has been no response from the council. you're making a sign? if you have given the report, all the better, but there has been no feedback from the countries. and now we've gotten into this mess, and we have to figure out that the deadline is not to be met. so far, so bad. i'm not sure i like it. but now you are proposing not to set a new date, but to say: we want to set this date by comitology. so, it's up to you to decide when that appointment is. the committee therefore decided to make electronic labelling compulsory by 31 december 2009, i.e. by 1 january 2010, two years later than the date prescribed in the first regulation. that was a year earlier than the rapporteur had suggested. but the important thing is, there's a date. the committee then said that it should also be reported. the problem with this proposal you are making is that you are increasingly drawing the commission into the comitology procedure, just as in the old regulation of 17 december 2003 you brought the rules and the application of the rules on electronic labelling into the comitology procedure. there should be a report to the council, but no report to parliament. so this practice of taking everything into comitology takes us out of the decision-making and the scrutiny of parliament's control body and then at some point we find out that this has not happened at all. if you had not come forward with these amendments now because you were pressed for time and had requested the urgency procedure, we would have continued to think that everything was in order. it's not okay! this must be a warning to us in parliament not to give too much to the commission and to continue to exercise our powers of control. now there have been a few amendments. you said you couldn't take her like this. the committee has decided that it should be binding. this is also contained in the basic regulation, which is not being repealed, but only amended. now there are amendments - mr stevenson, and one is by you and mrs mcguinness - which say: 'now we are doing it voluntarily'. yeah, if we volunteer now, we can skip the whole exercise! what else is prescribed? then all cats are gray at night. so i think we should stick to a binding regulation and that binding regulation should also have a date and include a report to the european parliament. it will be a lesson to us that we have now come across this rather unusual procedure of the commission and the council by chance, through this report. i hope, mr kyprianou, that is not too much criticism. but you can imagine that when i was preparing the report and preparing for tonight and looking into it, i was quite puzzled by what was possible at our european level. we must have an interest, both parliament and the commission, and for my part, we as individuals, in ensuring that this does not happen again and that it is not torn down.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. let me ask the commissioner one more question. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have tabled an amendment which provides for certain exceptions which are not to be made voluntarily, and the original text also allows for a variation, an update, if we take it under article 9 (4). it would be possible, under certain conditions - which should not include voluntary service, since we can then leave it at that - to make some considerations as to how the concerns raised by the honourable members could be met in practice. i just want to make a suggestion and ask you a question that you might want to think about.
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome the excellent and speedy work done by the rapporteur, mr martin, and his colleagues and staff. together they have produced a comprehensive and balanced report, which i commend. parliament’s endorsement of this motion for a resolution will send a clear signal of support for the commission’s policy of seeking an ambitious and comprehensive free trade agreement (fta) with south korea, as part of the strategy laid out in the global europe communication of october 2006. the choice of south korea as partner for this generation of free trade agreements reflects the important economic and political potential of the country, but it is also an acknowledgement of the reality that important barriers exist and persist to stronger economic and trade ties between us. the motion is timely: free trade negotiations with south korea were launched in may 2007, and have progressed rapidly so far. we are ready to work for an early conclusion so long as the substance and quality of the outcome are right. that is our bottom line and it will remain so. our fta with south korea should be fully wto-compatible. that goes without saying. we seek far-reaching liberalisation in trade in goods and services, as well as in investment. we are paying special attention to non-tariff barriers and to rules and regulations in key areas, such as intellectual property rights, competition and government procurement. i fully agree with the importance the report attaches to non-tariff barriers and to effective dispute settlement machinery in this and other aspects of the prospective agreement. studies have suggested that, in some sectors in korea, non-tariff barriers are now more important than the tariffs themselves. substantial improvements on these behind-the-border barriers to trade, creating real market access for eu exports to south korea, will be absolutely key to conclusion of the fta. on a few of the specific concerns that have been raised, the question of kaesong raises complex technical and political questions. we welcome the amendments proposed in this regard, because they highlight the complexity of the question, which will require careful consideration. the recognition and promotion of the social and environmental aspects of trade – sustainable development – will be an integral part of the free trade agreement with south korea. i agree that effective enforcement of standards is key to securing an ambitious and effective result on sustainable development in this agreement. however, a cooperative tone can achieve much more in this area than the appearance of coercion. we expect to cover a greater number of multilateral environmental agreements, and to include issues such as decent work and a stronger commitment to ilo core conventions, and expect to go beyond other recent agreements, such as those covered by the korea-us fta. we will also aim to involve the social partners and civil society in this cooperation. the sustainability impact assessment has been launched. the main findings of draft reports in the different phases will be discussed with civil society. we have set up the sia to ensure that there will be continuous and rapid feedback into the negotiation process. this builds on the initial contacts we had with civil society at the start of the negotiations. we have also worked closely with parliament. the cooperation with the rapporteur and the committee on international trade has been excellent. i myself, as well as the director-general, have regularly updated that committee. as far as the ratification procedure is concerned, this will depend on the content of the agreement itself, but the commission is in favour of involving parliament as much as is possible under the treaty. finally, a possible future fta covering the bilateral trade relations with south korea will be part of an overall and coherent framework of eu relations with south korea. the existing bilateral framework agreement will continue to govern bilateral cooperation and political dialogue. to conclude, the goal of this fta is to complement an ambitious doha outcome by going deeper and further bilaterally with south korea. past experience shows that such agreements can road test liberalisation solutions and become stepping-stones for the future evolution of the wto. an ambitious and comprehensive fta with south korea is not just commercially significant, but will also mean an important upgrading of the bilateral eu-korea relationship. it is also a recognition of the engagement of the eu on the korean peninsula and in the region. in a wider sense, it is part of our broader commitment to ensuring that eu trade policy in asia is keeping up with the dramatic development of that region, and securing the benefits in terms of jobs, growth and growing trade for both sides.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the committee on industry, research and technology would like to thank the rapporteur for accepting our proposals. we think that an agreement is useful, but we would point out that there have been considerable sectoral problems with korea in the past, for example in the discussion of dumping prices in the shipping industry in recent years, where we have also had cases. we want to make sure that these sectoral problems are solved in a way that there is really a mutual opening and that korea is not the unilateral beneficiary, but that - even if you think of our pharmaceutical industry, the automotive industry, many industrial sectors - reciprocity is guaranteed. one particular theme was kaesŏng. the commissioner has just raised the question of how to include this north korean special zone. i understand there are eight more special zones planned. the committee on industry is convinced that international standards must apply. we cannot undermine our own free trade agreements in this way. we therefore ask that this aspect be examined particularly closely. i would also like to thank the commission for the negotiations.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to address three aspects. first of all, on behalf of my group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr david martin. the report is extremely thorough and it really touches on all the points that are important and that need to be discussed. it also advises caution in certain areas, such as the automotive sector. in this respect, i think it is an excellent report, which is a good prerequisite and should be taken into account by the commission and the council. i am glad to hear that the commissioner has taken such care in this matter. secondly, i would ask the commissioner: what is your assessment of the overall outcome of the negotiations with korea? the negotiations are under way and are at a very difficult stage. it looked much better at the beginning than i think we should now appreciate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. these negotiations are also, as far as i understand from the minutes, in a very difficult phase. what is the commission's assessment of this? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my last question to the commissioner is that the heads of government are signing the reform treaty on 13 december of all days. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the commission and especially commissioner peter mandelson for his continued support. but my question is this: can you imagine that the commission will support us if we ask the council to give us a prior right under the emerging free trade agreements, that is to say, to give parliament the corresponding obligation to give its consent? can we assume that we have you, commissioner peter mandelson, on our side?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i have asked to speak on behalf of my group for two reasons: firstly, for a very general reason - because of the events that took place yesterday in this house - and secondly, i have a request in connection with the forthcoming votes. i would like to begin by giving a general idea. mr president, i would ask you to give a statement on behalf of my group on yesterday's events, and to do so on a very specific case, the case of our housekeepers, our staff, our parlour servants in this house. i would like to put this in advance: it is the right of every man and every woman to express their opinion in this house. we're also used to seeing posters and t-shirts and everyone being free to express their opinion here. those who are in favour of a referendum have every right to do so in this house. but what we saw yesterday is not acceptable in the context of this freedom of expression. (applause from the centre) now, we can also argue about what individual colleagues are doing here, how they behave, whether they shout or not. but one thing is unacceptable: that the servants in this house, the huissiers, before whom i - and i speak on behalf of all my colleagues, i believe almost all members of this house - have the highest personal and professional respect. (applause from the centre) what is not possible - and i speak specifically on behalf of my colleague joseph daul and, i think, also on behalf of my colleague graham watson and also on behalf of my colleague daniel cohn-bendit and also on behalf of francis wurtz - is that huissiers are attacked physically and verbally in this house in a heated debate. yesterday, huissiers who abused their office were called gestapo and ss men. that is a disgrace, mr president! i think the house should express its full solidarity with the huissiers. (parliament adopted the resolution) ladies and gentlemen, the saladinens in this house are not private individuals, they are officials of this parliament. you are the president's extended arm in this house. and if a salads person is physically attacked here, if a salads person is beaten here, then there is only one possibility: the member who did this must be identified! he must be charged and his immunity revoked immediately! (applause from the centre) i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to address the un group, and in particular mr brian crowley, who i do not know if is here, on behalf of my group, on the votes on the resolutions on extremism, the human rights dialogue with china, montenegro and the banning of landmines. the uen group has co-signed these resolutions. as long as there is no official apology from the uen group for yesterday's incidents in this house, i, as a representative of the socialist group, do not see myself as being able to continue to work with the uen group. i refer in particular to the resolution on combating extremism in europe. the third reference note, in which the uen group, among others, states that we condemn racism in europe, refers to the european charter of fundamental rights. it was supposed to be signed here yesterday and was shouted down by a large number of members of this group. i would ask you to withdraw your signature from this joint resolution. you cannot adopt a resolution which refers to the charter of fundamental rights which you signed here yesterday! (applause and shouting) you said yesterday that you do not want this charter of fundamental rights. you can withdraw your signature. our cooperation with you is over! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it has been said of the last bourbon kings that they always acted too late for an idea, a government or an army. unfortunately, this seems to be the case today in the west and in europe, because we have allowed the disaster in darfur and eastern chad to continue for far too long. the longer we delay intervention, the more expensive it will be, not only financially, but also militarily and politically. i am therefore very grateful to mr von wogau for his efforts in the military and security fields and to mr dess for his massive efforts in the humanitarian field. we must finally act, but the states are hesitant, not only about the material that is needed, but unfortunately also about the troops that are needed. we need troops and forces with local knowledge and expertise on the ground. i also agree that this cannot be a french covert operation, and nobody is talking about that, but we need the french's local knowledge and expertise. we also need the cooperation of the african union and the arab league, which unfortunately are still completely aloof. but this must not relieve us europeans of our responsibility. i want to make it very clear that we want to be involved, but we cannot make the mistake we made in afghanistan, which is to intervene without having a political strategy. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the peace process in darfur, and has been involved in the negotiations on the peace process in the darfur region. the european parliament should therefore be committed to the deployment of troops, to humanitarian aid, but also to contributing as quickly as possible to a viable political peace strategy for the region.
i hereby declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 13 december 2007. i am not going to go into detail. i would like to welcome the president of the european council, mr josé sócrates. i also warmly welcome the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel durão barroso. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
i have been informed by mr dumitru oprea, mr nicolae vlad popa and mr theodor dumitru stolojan that they have joined the epp-ed group. i would like to congratulate my hungarian colleagues on the fact that the hungarian parliament has approved the reform treaty by a very large majority. (applause from the centre) i recommend that the other parliaments of the european union countries follow suit.
i am not going to go into detail. we are now about to sign the community budget for 2008, and i would like to thank the council and the commission very sincerely for the good cooperation. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words of gratitude. we are now going to sign it, and i would ask the appropriate personalities to join us at the table: the chairman of the committee on budgets, the rapporteur, the commissioner, and, of course, the presidents, if they wish, are also cordially invited. (the president declared the budget adopted)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the european council of 13 and 14 december and on the report on the activities of the portuguese presidency. i would like to begin by expressing my warmest thanks and appreciation to the portuguese presidency for its very successful presidency, and i would like to mention, if i cannot name all of them, a few personalities who represent them all: the president of the european council, prime minister josé sócrates, foreign minister luís amado, minister of state manuel lobo antunes and, of course, ambassador álvaro mendonça e moura. thank you very much, and thank all your staff who have helped you. but i would also like to thank very warmly the commission, president josé manuel durão barroso, and i would like to say it again here - i said it in a watered-down form before the european council - that we were able to reach a result on the important question of the galileo project partly because the european commission and the european parliament worked so well together and we were able to reach a good result together with the portuguese presidency. i would also like to thank the commission for this. i am not going to go into detail. the past week has been eventful: first the signing of the charter of fundamental rights on wednesday in the european parliament in strasbourg, then the signing of the reform treaty on thursday in lisbon, and finally the summit in brussels on friday. i must say, mr president of the european council, mr josé sócrates, that the signing of the treaty in the convent of st. jerome in lisbon was a very beautiful and symbolic expression of our common identity. let us hope that all parliaments and all peoples will now follow hungary's example and adopt the treaty swiftly.
acting president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the portuguese presidency and i have reached this point where we are accountable to parliament for our presidency with a sense of duty. and i think you will agree with me if i say that europe and europeans today have good reason to be satisfied with the development of european political action over the last six months. i am convinced that europe is stronger today, that europe is more confident and that europe is more confident. europe at the end of these six months is a europe that is better off, that is better off in its own eyes, but that is also better off in the eyes of the world. the president and the members are well aware of the three priorities of the portuguese presidency. the priorities were, i would remind you, the treaty on the one hand, but also the summit with brazil and the summit with africa. these have always been, and i have had the opportunity to say so here at the presentation of the portuguese presidency, the three main priorities for the portuguese presidency. i am very pleased to be able to tell you that all the objectives we set ourselves during these six months have been met. but let us start with the most important objective of all: the treaty. the treaty, the new treaty for europe. this has always been the top priority, and the new treaty we signed in lisbon, which has been called the lisbon treaty, is, from the outset, a treaty which resolves the institutional impasse in europe, a treaty which responds to the institutional crisis in europe. and i would like to say this to you: no sign of confidence was more important for the european project and for the europeans and for the european economy than that we overcome this impasse and that we overcome this crisis. but this treaty also responded to the three major challenges facing europe. the first challenge is the challenge of european citizenship. the challenge of affirming the values on which our political project is based and this affirmation of the values and of european citizenship is contained in the charter of fundamental rights which we have proclaimed in this parliament but which has the legal value of being enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. but that was the first of the challenges. the second challenge was, of course, to give europe back a greater capacity to decide. everyone familiar with europe well understands that a europe of 27 needed to change the rules. changing the rules, keeping the democracy of the rules, but allowing the institutions to respond more effectively and efficiently on behalf of all europeans to the challenges of the new world. this challenge was also overcome with the treaty of lisbon. and finally, the challenge of stronger, more capable institutions, institutions more able to meet the new demands on europe. this challenge is also met today in the treaty of lisbon. and if we want or intend to sum up the treaty of lisbon, this is precisely the place to do it. it is a treaty which responds to the three great challenges: to transform europe into a political project which affirms its values and which affirms european citizenship, a europe which is now better placed to meet the challenges of modern times, which has better conditions for effective decision-making, but also a europe which has seen its institutions strengthened to meet the aspirations of europeans but also to meet the expectations of the world. this treaty is an important treaty for europe, but it is also a treaty which makes europe a stronger europe in the service of a better world. it is not just a treaty for europeans, for the european economy, it is also a treaty that gives a clear signal to the world that europe is back and is back to the continuation of a european project as a project that inspires many continents around the world. the treaty: this priority was fulfilled under the portuguese presidency. but if the treaty was perhaps the greatest contribution we made to a stronger europe, i want to stress the other two priorities. first, the summit with brazil. why the summit with brazil? for one elementary reason, the european union's foreign policy already had annual summits with india, annual summits with russia, annual summits with china, but it didn't have an annual summit with brazil. and the fact that we adopted a strategic partnership at that summit makes the european union's foreign policy more coherent and more understandable. we now have a policy with the brics, with brazil, with china, with india and with russia, for the benefit of a europe which wants to be present as a global political actor. this summit with brazil and the strategic partnership we have defined have enriched european foreign policy and created better conditions for the affirmation of the european economy, but also for the affirmation of the values and the aims of the european project. and thirdly, the summit with africa. the summit with africa. when we left for the summit with africa, we were well aware of the difficulties we faced, but we overcame them because from the first moment it was clear that we were right, that europe was paying a price for seven years of no political dialogue with africa, that this was bad for africa, that this was bad for europe and that this was bad for the world. there was no reason why we couldn't have a broader, global political dialogue with africa. and perhaps portugal, because of its sensitivity, was in a better position to see that this was a mistake. that mistake was overcome with the africa summit. and that summit was a success, because for the first time in the history of the world europe has a joint strategy with africa. let us not be mistaken, it is not a european strategy for africa, or vice versa, no, it is a joint strategy of the two continents and it is a joint strategy with ambition that develops in the five major themes that are important for the two continents: peace and security, climate change, human rights, these areas that are also - sorry, i forgot this area of the greatest importance - these five themes are the five structuring themes of a political dialogue with africa that interests, as i have said, africa, europe but also the world. but we have not only approved a joint strategy, we have also defined an action plan, and we have also defined the mechanism for implementing that strategy, and we are now building an institution between the european commission and the african union, the african union commission, so that they can collaborate in implementing what we have agreed. i have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, for those who are at all familiar with these issues, that all those who are interested in human rights, those who are interested in the issues of climate change, those who are interested in the issues of migration and the defence of immigrants, those who are interested in development issues, those who are interested in security issues, were pleased to see that europe and africa had finally built a political framework for negotiation and a political framework for dialogue. i have no doubt that european foreign policy has become better and richer since the summit with africa, and that is why i am pleased to say that over the past six months we have been able to overcome blockages and impasses, but we have also been able to overcome prejudices which allow us to say today, at the end of the portuguese presidency, that europe has become stronger internally, but it has also become stronger in its foreign policy. having a coherent policy with the brics today and having a political dialogue with africa that all those who care about foreign relations thought it was a mistake not to have had in recent years. the european union is not a party to the treaty, brazil, africa, this is done, and done for the benefit of europe, but i would like to say to all the members and to the president that i do not have time to summarize everything that has been done by this portuguese presidency, but i would like to say to you, briefly, that this presidency has left its mark on the main topics on the european agenda and i would like to start with the agenda on the subject of freedoms. this presidency leaves a mark on the agenda of freedoms and that mark was already affirmed when we proclaimed the charter of fundamental rights here and that moment is the decisive moment for the european project and this charter of fundamental rights, as i have already said, now has legal value in the treaty of lisbon. but it was also under the portuguese presidency that we were able to establish the european day against the death penalty, and this honours european values and gives a clear signal to the world that europe is defending the value of life. and i want you to know that it was during the portuguese presidency that a moratorium on the use of the death penalty was voted in the third committee of the united nations general assembly and that vote was the result of a european proposal that honours the tradition and values of europe. but i also want to emphasize in this agenda of freedoms the effort made by the portuguese presidency to extend the area of freedom and mobility to the new member states. i will have the opportunity, on 21 and 22 december, with the president of the commission and a number of ministers, to be present at the borders which will be abolished, because these nine countries will be joining the schengen area, thus fulfilling the highest aspirations of those citizens who want to be part of europe, who want to have freedom of movement while belonging to a space which guarantees their security. it is a beautiful story of sis one4all, because it was by portuguese insistence that the date of 31 december 2007 will be fulfilled in the abolition of these borders, because there was a portuguese minister who did not resign himself to the idea that it was technically impossible to connect the databases of the new countries with the databases of the schengen system and it was a portuguese company that proposed a technology so that this could be overcome. on 21 and 22 we will be there to tell those countries that portugal is very proud to have been able to contribute with portuguese technology and portuguese political will so that these countries can give their citizens total freedom of movement, because that is the greatest aspiration of the european peoples. i am from a country that lived through that moment, i remember well the moment when the border between portugal and spain was abolished, and yes, for the first time we felt part of the european family. that is why, if there is a symbolic moment of this presidency, it will be when portuguese politicians and other politicians, the president of the commission, are present at these borders to mark the moment when they are abolished, thus fulfilling what is a dream and an aspiration of europe to make a free movement and security area such as the schengen area. the liberties agenda, we left a mark there, but we also left a mark on the social agenda. i would remind everyone that it was during the portuguese presidency that an agreement was reached between european trade unions and business associations and a very important agreement which highlights the challenges for the european labour market, but it was also during this presidency that the common principles on flexicurity were established between all the countries, thus giving a boost, thus giving a breakthrough to what is a european model which aims to reconcile the flexibility indispensable for competitiveness with the security for workers which is inherent in the european social model. finally, in this social agenda i would like to stress the attention we have paid to migration policy. for six months we have been very much on this subject. we held an international conference in lisbon because our aim was and is to contribute to the definition or general guidelines of a european policy on migration, and at the last council the president of the commission had the opportunity to present the commission document which lays the foundations for this policy, a policy on migration which has three fundamental pillars: the inclusion of immigrants, the fight against illegal immigration, but also cooperation with the countries of origin, so that we can regulate migration flows in the interests of immigrants. this is an important point on the european social agenda and portugal is very proud to have contributed to the development of this european migration policy. but the portuguese presidency is also leaving its mark on the economic agenda, and that mark is, of course, the mark that results, as the president of the european parliament said, from the fact that we have approved the galileo project under this portuguese presidency, which for many years has been dragging its feet to the detriment of europe and with a clear signal to the world that europe was not capable, in a decisive sector, of having a project of its own. this galileo project is perhaps one of the infrastructure projects for the affirmation of europe in the world and for the affirmation of europe in a very competitive field such as telecommunications. that is why we are very proud that it was the leadership of the portuguese presidency and minister mário lino that finally led to an agreement that honours europe and honours the european project. on the economic agenda, i would also like to stress the contribution we have made to maritime policy at european level by adopting the framework directive on the marine environment strategy as a fundamental condition for europe to have a coherent approach between all countries in its relationship with the sea. and on energy and climate change, i just want to make two points. the first was the completion of the strategic plan for energy technologies. this is an absolutely fundamental point which marks europe's ambition in this area and the will to make the maximum investment in innovation and research so that we can meet the challenges of the future. but i also want to stress the bali agreement, which was reached under the portuguese presidency, so that we have today, as we have, a clear negotiating road map so that in 2009 we can once again have a global agreement to respond to the challenges of climate change. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have also left a mark on the agenda for the future of the european union, and that mark is of course linked to the declaration on globalisation which we adopted at the last council. that statement shall mean the following: firstly, europe has solved its institutional problems and is now focused on what matters, to face the challenges of a changing world, to assert a leading position in institutional reform, to assert education, training and research as a central issue for solving europe's role in a global world, but also to fight against all the environmental challenges that threaten the world. this european agenda for globalisation represents the return of europe and the return of europe to the discussion of absolutely fundamental issues that europe, because in recent years it was so entangled in its institutional problems, was unfortunately very entangled. declaration on globalisation, but also agreement on the reflection group. we approved a mandate for this think tank at the last council, so that it can contribute to a general reflection on what is going on and the future of europe between 2020 and 2030. so that it can help anticipate and respond to challenges, and we also endorsed the leadership of this group felipe gonzalez, one of the great europeans in european history, is returning to political activity to lead a group of reflection on what has always been for him one of his noblest ideals: the european project, together with vice-presidents viėe-freiberga and jorma ollila, who will lead the group that has been set up in the meantime. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will not describe everything, as i have said, everything that has been done by the portuguese presidency, but i want to tell you that i am very proud of this presidency and i am very pleased with this presidency. all the goals we set for ourselves have been achieved. the most important ones and even the ones we doubted we could reach. the european union is not only a great example of the european union, but also of the european union's role in the world. this presidency, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is the presidency of a european country, a country which is well aware that it is defending its interests in the european project, a country which is committed to european ideals, a country which is led by european politicians and which is well aware that what europe needs is to develop the european project and that this european project is probably the most generous, most critical and most important project of the new era, that this european project is important for europeans, for the european economy, but also important for the world. if the president permits me, i would also like to end with a personal thank you, thanking the foreign minister who is sitting here next to me, who has been my companion for the past six months, the secretary of state for european affairs who is here with me, but i would also like to thank portuguese diplomacy, the diplomacy that builds things, the diplomacy that really acts silently and that often does not see the fruits of its work recognized, and i would like to thank all the portuguese diplomacy that has done its best to serve its country and europe and that has been led by one of the great portuguese ambassadors, ambassador mendonça e moura, who is here with me. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we began this presidency with the motto 'a stronger europe for a better world' and we have come to the end of these six months convinced that we have lived up to that motto, that we have done our best as a country so that europe can now present itself as a stronger europe, as a europe that better serves europeans and as a europe that will better play its role in the world. everything we have done has been for europe, in the service of europe, because that is where portuguese interests, european interests and also the interests of the world are defended. i would like to thank all the parliamentary groups who have supported us so much throughout this period, all the parliamentary groups, i would like to thank the commission for the support it has given us and i would like to thank the president of the european parliament for all the help that has always been there and that has never been refused by the portuguese presidency. i am very proud and very pleased with this presidency and would therefore like to share with you this joy which is a joy for europe. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank you very much, mr president of the european council, for your speech and for your great commitment.
i'm not sure. mr president, mr president of the parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, during the last six months we have had a very good illustration of what we have been advocating as the two ways of moving europe forward, namely, that while we are trying to solve institutional problems, we are also trying to move forward with concrete results, to show our citizens that europe is truly at the service of their aspirations. 2007 showed that europe is capable of meeting these challenges. we have now seen the negotiation, agreement and signing of a treaty, the treaty of lisbon, which will give europe the institutions for the future, so that europe can respond to the challenges of the 21st century. i would like to pay tribute once again to the portuguese presidency and especially to prime minister josé sócrates for his competent leadership of the european union, and it is also fair to mention the important contribution made by the german presidency and chancellor merkel when the mandate was obtained which allowed decisive progress to be made in this agreement so important for europe. the truth is that at first there were many who doubted the usefulness of this effort, but the truth is that it was possible a few days ago in lisbon for the 27 governments of the european union to unite around a treaty which they themselves had negotiated. the political success that has been achieved must now be put into practice. member states have agreed to sign the treaty and also to ratify it, so that it will enter into force on 1 january 2009. this commitment by the member states must be taken very seriously. by signing the treaty, governments assumed a responsibility to defend it before their parliaments and their public. this work must be successful if europe is to move forward. mr president, i would like to thank i wish to warmly salute hungary for the ratification of the treaty of lisbon yesterday. the treaty was ratified with an overwhelming majority: 385 yes votes and only five no votes. (applause) i think it is a very symbolic fact and a very positive political signal that one of the new member states is the first country to ratify the lisbon treaty. hungary deserves our applause. at the same time, during this period and specifically in these six months, we have seen the european union take the lead on policies that affect every european every day: economic growth and job creation, climate change, energy, migration and innovation. these are the issues that will determine the success of europe now and in the future. prime minister socrates has already spoken about many of the achievements of the presidency. i will not repeat all of them. i could, of course, agree with everything he said: the importance of the european union-africa summit, the first summit with brazil on the strategic relationship with that very important country, the agreement it was possible to reach on galileo, and the very important agreement by the social partners on the principles of flexicurity. i could also add some other points and underline some that sometimes have deserved less attention but are also important. for example, the general political agreement reached with the european parliament on the creation of the european institute of innovation and technology a very concrete project and a real flagship for innovation in europe and also the launch of an integrated maritime policy for the union. this brings to fruition extensive work begun by the commission almost three years ago, in march 2005. following a wide public debate on a green paper issued by the commission in june 2006, we have now reached a clear consensus in the european institutions on how important maritime policy is for the union to meet the challenges of globalisation and competitiveness, of climate change and energy, and to maximise the potential of our oceans and seas in a sustainable way. following in the footsteps of the european parliament's excellent five-committee report of july, the commission's vision of an integrated maritime policy for the union and an action plan were fully endorsed by the european council last week. a particular note of appreciation is due to the portuguese presidency for making this a priority for the union. how were all these achievements made possible? central to this has been the effective cooperation between the three core institutions: the parliament, the commission and the council of ministers have been able to work together to develop real consensus across a wide range of the european union's work. we have also benefited from a growing realisation that the european union offers the right vehicle to address today's big challenges. just look at the eurobarometer figures released today. these confirm the figures from spring this year that overall support for the european union is higher than at any time over the past decade. we are winning the trust of european citizens; now we must show that we deserve that trust. last week, in a matter of days, we saw the proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights by the three institutions in the european parliament in strasbourg, the signing of the treaty of lisbon and, following those very important moments, the european council focus on key issues of direct interest to citizens. after the historic steps of wednesday and thursday, on friday the european council returned to the crucial task of turning the europe of results into reality, and we now have a framework in place for the results the european union should deliver in 2008. critical to our future action is the importance of globalisation. it was not so long ago that policy-makers tended to shy away from globalization. globalization was seen as being too difficult and too divisive, and sometimes we even wanted to avoid the word. the declaration on globalisation approved by the european council has turned this around. we know now that europe can unite around an activist, proactive approach to globalisation. not all the impact of globalization is positive we know that but that is no reason for passivity. it should rather redouble our efforts to make the most of the opportunities for europe offered by globalisation. the european union has every reason to feel confident about its future in the age of globalisation. it is showing how the values which govern european society are fully compatible with the proactive approach to globalisation. that is the message to come out of the declaration on globalisation. there is now a real sense of momentum in our agenda for succeeding in the age of globalisation, a momentum we will keep up by a series of commission initiatives in the coming months. i was pleased that the portuguese presidency decided to devote particular attention to migration. if we manage the issue of migration well, everyone can benefit: europe, the member states of the european union, but also the countries of origin and the migrants themselves, because, as the president-in-office of the council has just reminded us, this is also a social issue. the european council backed the integrated approach proposed by the commission early this december. to back up the proposals we already have on the table, such as illegal migration, undeclared work and the blue card for highly-skilled workers, we will come forward with new proposals next year to build a truly comprehensive approach at european level regarding migration. before this, we will come forward with our package of measures to realise the union's promises on climate change and energy. this is another point about globalization: climate change and the need to have a global solution to a global problem. i am happy to say to you that europe is really leading this issue worldwide. i am proud that the european union and our 27 member states spoke with one voice at the bali conference. the declaration is an important step in the right direction on the road to copenhagen in 2009. i know that some of us would have wished for more - i personally would have preferred more - but the fact that there was a consensus at the united nations conference and a commitment to a target date and a post-2012 regime was in itself a success and, let's be frank, that success would not have been possible without european leadership and european unity. the focus is now on the need to ensure the follow-up and insist on ambitious, binding targets for the reduction of co2. just a few days after bali, there's a palpable sense that the wind of change is blowing in our direction. some of our main partners who have not yet changed their minds australia already has will change their minds. but we need to keep up the pressure to give meaning to our leadership. the best way to do this is to show we mean business by driving on with our own proposals. i want to work closely with this parliament over the next year and agree a common goal of a political agreement on the full package by the end of next year. the european council also took the opportunity to look further ahead, not only in terms of a declaration on globalisation but to come up with some ideas. the reflection group is an innovative approach, one which can pay off. looking ahead to 2020, 2030 requires discipline and imagination, but the result can help us to keep the focus on the big picture, in particular on the global challenges. the group can count on the support of the commission when the full team starts its work later next year. i also welcome the choice of felipe gonzáles, a very experienced statesman and a committed european, as chairman of the group, and the two vice-chairmen, mrs vike-freiberga and mr jorma ollila. the european council also looked at more immediate challenges. the stability of kosovo is heavily dependent on a united european union, and a solution for serbia and kosovo lies in europe. they know that and we know that. we must carry this through into determined and united european union action. this is a stern test for europe, one that we cannot afford to fail. the european commission encourages the member states to keep a united and coherent approach regarding the kosovo issue. before i finish, let me say that the commission is extremely pleased that the european consensus on humanitarian aid has been adopted by parliament and the council. the declaration that i have the honour of signing after this sitting with president pöttering and prime minister socrates is a wide-ranging policy statement about our objectives, principles and good practice approaches to humanitarian aid, delivered both bilaterally by member states and by the european community. the consensus is a milestone for european union humanitarian aid. the european commission alone is the second largest humanitarian donor in the world and, by driving forward this consensus, has responded strongly to the increasingly challenging environment facing humanitarians. the commission's increasing policy voice in this area, in the light of its considerable experience in the provision of humanitarian aid and its unique role at the heart of the european union, is positively welcomed by the member states, parliament and also humanitarian partners. internal work has now been launched to translate the commitments contained in the consensus into a draft action plan that should be presented in the first half of 2008. finally, as the president-in-office of the european council, prime minister socrates has just said, this year's work is not yet over. i will have the honour before the end of the year to join him in very symbolic acts of opening our internal borders. as of december 21, 2007, we will live and circulate in an area of 24 countries without internal borders. this is a unique and historic accomplishment. estonia, the czech republic, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovakia and slovenia will lift internal border controls. this will make travelling for all europeans quicker and easier. from 21 december 2007 travel will be possible from the iberian peninsula to poland, from greece to finland without border checks. i also congratulate the portuguese presidency on its strategic leadership for the successful implementation of the schengen information system project: the 'sis one for all'. the lifting of the european union's internal borders brings opportunities for people living, circulating and doing business in europe. it is important to explain to our citizens that, at the same time as we are lifting border controls and promoting freedom, security standards are also being reinforced, because this also means efficient checks at external borders. we should not forget that now, for example, the spanish border is the polish border and the polish border is also the greek border, so we can do this without reinforcing our security at the external borders and we are moving forward only because those member states have made the necessary effort. so i believe that not only from a symbolic point of view this will be a very important development of our new, enlarged, committed europe. the overall message from 2007 is one of great hope, and no little expectation. the eyes of europeans are turning to the european union for the answers to so many questions. the past few months can give us confidence that we are up to the task. (applause from the left)
mr president of the commission, thank you for your speech and your commitment.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the portuguese presidency has been a success and i congratulate you, mr president-in-office, and your entire government on that success! the lobo antunes family has given us not only a good secretary of state but also an excellent writer who has written an interesting novel entitled 'o esplendor de portugal', a quote from your national anthem. the honour of portugal has been enhanced by this presidency of the council, especially by three things which you yourself have mentioned. the african summit has restored to africa, in relation to europe, a measure of the dignity which we europeans have long denied to africans. that was a success of your presidency. the fact that you have organised a summit with brazil shows that latin american policy must be placed more firmly at the centre of european policy, because it is based on common traditions - portugal, brazil, spain, south america, central america - but in the present day, above all, on common values which we share with one region in the world, namely latin america. that is why it was the right move to organise this summit with brazil. if we are talking about common values, i would like to thank you in particular on behalf of my group for putting the fight against the death penalty at the heart of your activities and for having a european day against the death penalty, which is a highlight of the portuguese presidency! (applause from the centre) but we also have challenges ahead. the treaty was signed in a solemn manner, but i have seen a treaty signed in a solemn manner before, and i have seen all those who signed the treaty in a solemn manner. i also saw the bushes they fought in afterwards, the solemn signatories! some of them are no longer in office, and that may be a good thing. but now we must fight for the ratification of this treaty. the thanks to the hungarians have already been paid. but if we are to succeed in 2008, we must also look carefully at the conclusions of the council meeting that followed the signing ceremony. i welcome, on behalf of my group, the council's recognition of the need for a revision of the integrated economic policy guidelines. i hope the commission will take this seriously and present a communication to that effect. i also welcome the council's request that there should be a commission communication on services of general interest, which is a request from our group. i have written to all the heads of government. i hope that you, mr president of the commission, will now take this seriously, because you said just a few weeks ago that we do not need such a communication. the council has a different view from yours and we, as socialists, are on the council's side. i am therefore addressing you now and saying that our work is not yet finished. you referred to schengen. you go there with mr. socrates and open the borders. that's great! but i understand you're still working tomorrow. the commission intends to adopt tomorrow the draft directive on crossborder health services. i do not know whether it is sensible to take such a decision in the commission so soon, the day before christmas or before the start of the christmas holidays. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore say to you that if you accept this tomorrow, you will be aware that anything outside the framework of the services directive, that is outside the principle of the country of origin, will be interpreted as follows: we have set a clear framework in the framework of the services directive. if you are trying to break back the principle of the country of origin by means of specific directives, you are doing so against the opposition of the socialist group in this parliament. remember that for the decision tomorrow! we need to succeed in ratifying it in 2008. the citizens of europe have seen: yes, the portuguese presidency of the council - together with the german presidency, i am happy to say - brought the union out of stagnation in 2007. we have moved on, we have a new treaty basis now, but it has not yet come into force. if we want it to take effect, we need the public's trust. but if we want to achieve this, we must tell people: 'europe is organised in a socially responsible way'. the chicago boys in your commission can't come back riding santa's windshield. what we need in europe is a clear commitment from the commission that europe is social, otherwise it will fail. i wish you all a merry christmas. (laughter and applause) i 'm not
the portuguese presidency's efforts to abolish the death penalty and a moratorium were mentioned. i'm sure you've all noticed that the u.s. state of new jersey has abolished the death penalty. i wrote to new jersey governor jon corzine today congratulating him and this house on this decision. (applause from the right)
mr president, mr president of the council, mr socrates! in addition to all the achievements of the last six months, the signature of the treaty of lisbon is certainly the absolute highlight of the portuguese presidency. i believe that this treaty of lisbon is the third major european treaty, after the treaties of rome and maastricht, which will also go down in the history books. after the nice summit in december 2000, that is exactly seven years ago, this parliament has shown a lot of energy and a lot of commitment to get an improved european treaty, and i think the whole parliament thanks you for making this a reality seven years later. it can become a reality if all 27 ratify it, as has been said here several times. i was shocked last week in strasbourg to be honest that there is a coalition of the no when it comes to europe, from the radical left to the radical right. let us not be deceived; many of those who say they want to involve the citizens in this debate are really only trying to confuse the citizens and block europe. it is not a question of citizens' participation, but of blocking further european unification. the vision of the lisbon treaty is the establishment of a european democracy, which is new, which does not exist in the world. i am grateful to you for the fact that the regulation on european political parties was also adopted during your presidency. it is a true masterpiece that we have created in the first reading, and it is also the basis for european political foundations, that is to say, for many platforms for the creation of a european debate, a european public. in conclusion, mr sócrates, we have planted a seed which will become a large tree with many branches in a few years. i hope that these branches will be visible in the campaign for the next european elections in june 2009. thank you for your presidency.
ms doyle, when you refer to the size of the country which has the presidency, did you mean that the irish presidency could have been even better? (laughter)
acting president of the council. mr president, i would first like to say the following: this was a presidency at the service of europe and of the european project. it was not a presidency to please everyone, it was a presidency to part the waters, it was a presidency to win the applause of those who are for europe, but also a presidency to support the protest of those who are against europe. and we're proud of that. and those who kick speakers, those who try to disrupt the democratic exercise in parliaments, need not apologize, because after all we have proclaimed here the charter of fundamental rights, which proclaims as a fundamental value of europe the value of tolerance, and tolerance even with those who do not know what is democratic spirit and behaviour. i would also like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that i do not share the often childish and childish view of those who think that there is an absolutely fundamental separation between foreign and domestic policy. in my country the portuguese presidency is taken very seriously and all the prime ministers, including myself, were clear-sighted enough to consider their action as fundamental and a priority when it was the turn of the portuguese presidency, because the european project is also a matter of internal policy for portugal, it is not just about abroad and europe, no, it is about us portuguese. that is why the prime ministers have always given priority to european action and the european agenda, because we are well aware that in matters of europe it is in the european project that we defend our interests. and then, you know what? i too belong to a party, and fortunately to a country, where we follow the churchill rule, the churchill rule: we never criticize abroad, nor do we ever attack our own government abroad, we save it for home, so that when we return home, we can make up for lost time and also when the government is in a position to defend itself. it is more loyal, it is the way we behave in portugal, it is the way the portuguese tradition and the portuguese political culture have the honour to behave when they hold the presidency of the european union. i would also like to stress one important point, i think one of the reasons we have made progress this past year, and we have, if you look at europe at the beginning of this year and look at europe at the end of this year, you will see that we have made progress and we have also made progress because of what the three presidencies have defined as their joint programme and that has helped. this concertation between the three presidencies, properly linked to the commission's programme, has helped europe and i think it is my duty to give you my own experience, which i think has helped me a great deal and has helped me to coordinate with the previous presidency. i have always said that the lisbon treaty owes a great deal to the previous presidency, to the presidency of angela merkel and to the leadership of angela merkel, in obtaining a mandate without which it would have been impossible to achieve the treaty. someone asked, "why brazil?" it's very simple to understand. for the same reason that we have a strategic partnership with china, with india and with russia, and not having brazil is a mistake, because nothing in the world is achieved, it is only what is politically obvious, nothing in the world is achieved in terms of the environment, nor in terms of trade, without brazil. brazil is now a new international partner of the greatest and vital importance and that is why i believe that the european union's foreign policy is better, more coherent and more comprehensive with the partnership with brazil. then, perseverance at the africa summit, someone talked about this, perseverance. that's right, what we did was persevere, and i remember well, a year and a half ago when we spoke at the africa summit, no one really believed we would succeed. and indeed, everyone pointed out the difficulties and the obstacles, but we persevered because we always felt that we were right, that it was a mistake not to do it, and moreover, and we always felt that there was, on both sides, the will to do it and we were right. and that's why this summit was a success, too. finally this presidency has moved europe forward, that is what i wanted to say here. but we have only just made progress, this is not the end of history, no, we are far from the end of history, it is only a small step, i have a good sense of proportion, i know well that politics is an endless job, and once one mission is accomplished there will be another to be accomplished and i know well that we must move forward on migration with the blue card, i know well that we must go further on flexibility, i know well that there is much to be done, but in these areas we have all made progress. we didn't back down, we didn't stand still, we moved forward. and what has the european project achieved in the last 50 years if not small, solid progress? that is why i have given you this description, because i am absolutely convinced that under the portuguese presidency we have made progress and that what we have done has been in favour of the european project, not in favour of anything else, the european project, as i have said, because what has always guided us have been the interests of our own country, which are defended in the european project, a country which wants to share its sovereignty with others and wants to participate in this absolutely exceptional adventure of seeing 27 countries share their sovereignty in areas which 20 years ago were considered areas of state security. sharing this sovereignty is setting an example to the world of cooperation for peace, for development, that is the adventure of europe. i am only honoured to have made a small contribution to this and i just wanted to leave before you all the pride that the portuguese feel about it. my country has always been a europeanist country, the portuguese are very pro-european, they believe in europe and, like me and many of you, they were also frustrated by the fact that europe was dragging its feet three years ago, they wanted to overcome the impasse, they wanted to move forward and we moved forward, and we moved forward with a treaty that still bears the name of our capital. i also wanted to convey to you the pride and honour my country has felt at having had the opportunity to serve europe over the past six months. thank you very much.
i'm not sure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, very quickly, concluding what has been an interesting debate, i would like to underline a point which has also just been raised by prime minister josé sócrates and which i think is important for us to learn from for the future. i think it is legitimate, it is fair, i have already done so, and it was not just out of courtesy, to convey my sincere congratulations to the portuguese presidency for the work it has done. but the portuguese presidency has also had the grace to share this success with the other institutions and even with the other presidencies, notably the german presidency, and the fact that we have already worked together with the next presidency, the slovenian presidency. i think it is important to reflect on these conclusions which the president-in-office of the council, the prime minister of portugal, has now withdrawn, because, as mrs doyle rightly said, we have not yet ratified the treaty. we must not divide the european field. we have several political families here in this parliament, but after listening to some of the speeches, i have the impression that there is an idea in some of them that we can now polarize the european debate again. it is natural and legitimate that there are various ways of looking at the future of europe and that the different political families put forward proposals which are often contradictory. what i think would be a profound mistake, and frankly i would not want anyone to make it again, would be to go back to the idea of attacking brussels, or attacking the european commission, or to give in, whether on the right or the left, to easy criticism of the european institutions. that would be a profound mistake. the different political families, the different institutions, must make their proposals, but they must have the intelligence and the political strategy not to divide the european field even more artificially. as the portuguese prime minister and president of the european council rightly said, there is a time and a place for everything, there is a national space, there is a european space. and at this moment, to divide the pro-european camp, the one that goes from left to right, through the centre, but which is sincerely in favour of european progress, would, in my view, be a very serious mistake. i say this with the authority of the president of a commission which has always sought to reconcile a modern agenda for european competitiveness with a social vocation, which has even sought to correct mistakes which came from behind, not by my commission, and has sought in loyal work with the council and parliament to generate new consensus in favour of europe. that was the remark i wanted to make in this christmas quarter, in response to some less christmas-like speeches, telling you that the commission will continue to work with the utmost commitment, trying to carry out what was an extraordinary project, which the portuguese presidency, and i congratulate prime minister socrates and his whole team once again, thanks to their work, has left us in a much better state than we were a while ago. the truth is that when we think about where europe is today and where europe was three or two years ago, we have reason to be confident and that is why i wish you all a great year of 2008 full of personal successes for our europe too.
mr president of the commission! thank you for your work. i am not going to go into detail. i would also like to say that we were right to praise the portuguese presidency, we praised the commission, but without the european parliament this treaty would not have been on the table at all, and that is why we have reason to be proud that we have always kept our course with the large majority of the european parliament. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
