on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, bună seara, romania; добър ден, bulgaria; welcome, and let me, as the longest-serving member, show you the house from the inside. 84 % of german laws come from brussels – an alarming lack of democracy and a de facto suspension of the separation of powers, in the words of roman herzog, the former president of germany. unfortunately, he is right. if the eu had to apply for eu membership, it would be told, ‘sorry, solve your democratic deficit first’. the core of democracy is normally to hold elections, to have a new majority and then new laws. this core can hardly be found here. therefore, romanian and bulgarian friends, you enter a parliament with no vivid debates and a planned coronation of our next president. welcome to the waste of 22 working days, 50 extra hotel bills, eur 250 million spent on the travelling circus between strasbourg, luxembourg and brussels, and welcome to the 5 500 votes in a year where it is difficult to know exactly what you voted for. the d’hondt system will prevent you from having the most interesting posts and reports. in your committees, young assistants and trainees from the council will sit behind you with all the secret legislative documents you are not allowed to read. the eu has more than 90 000 pages of law – red tape – which you can never amend as an elected member of this parliament. to change anything, you need to go to someone who is not elected. of 480 million citizens, only the 27 non-elected commissioners are allowed to put forward proposals for a new law or an amendment to an existing law. in 2005, we decided more than 3000 different rules in the eu, applying codecision in only 57 cases. most rules are decided by civil servants in 300 secret working groups in the council, prepared by another 3000 secret working groups in the commission. dear new colleagues, welcome to a fight for transparency, proximity and democracy. my welcome gift is this new orange handbook with a long list of victories for transparency and a longer list of current tasks. members from all groups and independents have prepared a ‘fair chair’ programme for our next president. we could simply have one major seat, cut the travelling circus, introduce vivid debates, vote on major issues and change the d’hondt system into a fairer system to avoid discrimination against smaller delegations in the big groups, against the smaller groups and against the independents. one million citizens have signed a petition in favour of one place of work, and mr poettering will not even allow us to debate the one-seat petition. it is a secret vote tomorrow; use your first vote at 10 o’clock to show your support for one seat and a fair chair. estimado presidente josep borrell, mañana tiene usted la oportunidad de cambiar este sistema. muchas gracias, señor presidente.
mr president, dear colleagues, since 2004, we have known that mr poettering would be our next president, but we can still avoid a coronation. today’s vote is a secret ballot. may i urge every colleague to use his or her vote in the first round to show mr poettering our urgent need for reforms. concerning the issue of one seat, at the next meeting of the conference of presidents our new president should propose an early debate on our seats and our calendar for 2008. we could simply decide to meet in the town where the commission is meeting, not mentioning brussels or strasbourg, and then invite the commission president and relevant commissioners to explain their proposals from the same day’s meeting and to receive our political comments. this is how a real parliament works. then we could have one fixed hour of well-organised voting in all areas of joint decision-making, allowing us to reach the magic 393 votes behind our amendments. after the french presidential elections in may, we could then invite the new president of france and the prime ministers of belgium and luxembourg to a debate on a lasting solution for all seats. concerning voting, our new president should refuse any voting that is not properly prepared by the committees. we must vote on real political differences, not on technicalities. last year we had 5 500 votes in which very few members can say what they voted on. as regards better legislation, parliament has a real influence in the conciliation committees, but we are badly organised for that. we need qualified legislative experts in all fields in order to balance the commission. we need to focus on legislation, instead of wasting hours on debate in areas where parliament has no say. on the allocation of rapporteurships and posts, we need to be more flexible in order to allow personal qualifications to be taken into account. the d’hondt system is simply too rigid. why not use the sainte-laguë method instead? it is also a proportional system, but it allows both the smaller delegations in the big groups – that is, the majority of the members – and the smallest groups and independents to have more interesting first choices. on the façades of our buildings here in strasbourg, they still campaign for a ‘yes’ to a constitution that was rejected by the french and dutch voters. the buildings do not belong to a propaganda ministry; this is a parliament. parliament makes decisions, but it should hold no view as an institution. there are majorities and minorities, but all views are equal and all members are equal, so, please, order your staff to clean the house of institutional propaganda in support of specific views. on representation abroad, so far, parliament’s committee on constitutional affairs has sent 58 representatives to negotiate the constitution with the national parliaments. of these, 54 were in favour of the constitution and only 4 were against. in 7 of 11 meetings, the ‘no’ side was not even represented at all. these figures do not proportionately represent the 137 members who voted ‘no’ to the constitution. our new president must safeguard fair representation of different views when we are represented abroad. there must be equal opportunities for the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ sides when we resume the constitutional process under the german presidency. a democracy is also judged by how it treats its minorities. as regards staff policy, most leading administrative posts are now divided between the two big groups. our next president should propose a new system for the future and immediately order all staff to cut their special links to their parties. all staff must be politically impartial and serve members equally. on the president’s own position, our next president could establish a ‘new’ old tradition. why not stop taking part in political group meetings and visible voting, and show us that our next president is the dedicated president for all of us? why not introduce this good old practice from the first parliament in the world, the westminster parliament? finally, i would like to welcome mr joseph daul as the new leader of the ppe-de group. people are innocent until the opposite is proved. i would like to know if this principle was stated properly in the ppe-de group when they rejected mr hökmark in favour of mr daul in a very narrow vote. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i wish to congratulate you and to thank all the members and volunteers who ensured we had an election campaign. your election did not come as a great surprise, as we have known what the result would be since 2004. however, we have avoided a coronation and we have had a debate. you are now the elected president of the european parliament. you are now the president for all members. you are my president too, and you know of my wishes for reform: a single seat, better organised voting, better legislation, fair distribution of rapporteurships and posts, clean façades in strasbourg, fair representation abroad, neutral staff and a fair chair. lieber hans-gert, ich kenne dich nun seit 27 jahren als einen guten kollegen. du hast die besten qualifikationen, um ein hervorragender präsident zu sein, und ich hoffe, du hast auch den willen und den mut dazu. herzlichen glückwunsch zu deiner wahl und einen guten rutsch ins neue jahr!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the president of the federal republic of germany. thank you for the warm welcome to the group chairmen in berlin. it was a good start to the german presidency. and today you spoke beautifully about diversity and freedom and respect for national and regional parliaments. they will also ensure that 84% of german laws do not continue to come from brussels, as former german president roman herzog lamented the other day. they are now reviewing and corridor negotiating the rejected constitution to see which paragraphs of the constitution can be listed through without referendums. if they continue this exercise, the result will be a serious crisis of confidence between citizens and elected representatives. it is much wiser to determine the future with the people than against them. why not say right now that the text you agree on will be put to a referendum in all countries where this is constitutionally possible, and preferably on the same day. we know the citizens' position, the final paragraphs can be negotiated quickly and we will have rules of the game which people will actively support instead of reacting with more bitterness to all the elected representatives. thank you very much, frau bundeskanzler and herr vorsitzender of a north schleswiger. thank you very much, mrs bundeskanzlerin and mr president, from a north schleswiger.
president-in-office, i respect your european engagement, your commitment, focus and ambitions. within my one-and-a-half minutes, i shall focus on one message to you, which is that for europe to move forward we need to regain confidence and trust among ordinary people, those without jobs and those hard-working families all over europe who have hopes. therefore my appeal today is that following this speech, with its great vision and great ambitions, we must make that become reality. just one month ago at my congress of the european social democratic parties, we gave you an idea for a roadmap for a better social europe, because we need better, not less, social policies. we are proposing to you a roadmap for reviewing and modernising our social model and making it more dynamic. we call it ‘the new social europe’. it is about ensuring the continuation of our welfare states in the global economy; it is about ensuring that the market is the servant and not the master of people. you talked wisely about talent, technology and tolerance. i want to add just one thing: yes, yes, yes, but for all and in a coherent society and based on the concept of freedom, which is also – as you know and have underlined on other occasions – that you are not free if you do not have a job, you are not free if you do not feel secure, and you are not free if you cannot see your future. i know that your fight with other governments will be hard. let me give you just one commitment from our side: when you fight with the polish, with all your colleagues in the european council, i think that we in the european parliament have a duty to support you to make progress on that roadmap by telling our governments that it is not only about thinking about their own states but also about the community. viel glück!
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. as rapporteur for my group on the directive on the certification of railway staff, i would warmly support the line taken by mr savary. the council has agreed to a large extent with parliament's line from the first reading, so there are only a few outstanding points on which we can disagree. a common framework for train staff training is a logical consequence of the liberalizations already adopted. the major debate has been about who should be covered by the directive on the certification of train staff. do you want it to be just the train drivers or the other staff too? my group is satisfied with the result that has now been achieved. an appropriate balance has been found, covering train drivers and staff directly involved in safety. we also think it is important that the train driver can access his own data. it is a simple question of legal certainty, and finally we attach importance to the proposal that training costs should be reimbursed if the driver changes jobs shortly after training. it is an expensive training and we must not create a system whereby some railway companies can run free-lance and systematically avoid paying training costs by recruiting new graduates from other companies. i very much hope that tomorrow there will be a sufficient majority in this house for the jarzembowski report's proposal for the liberalization of passenger transport. liberalisation is needed, including national passenger transport and not just the 5% of passenger transport that crosses borders. this is necessary if trains in the eu are to provide a sufficiently competitive alternative to other modes of transport and thus provide more environmentally friendly and energy-efficient transport. what happens when you liberalize and create free competition? yes, the passenger comes to the center. timely trains and good, comfortable transport will be a major goal. not just in slogans and ads, but as something that permeates the entire railroad's self-image. because without customers in the store, there's no business. passenger rights must also apply to national transport and not just cross-border transport. mr sterckx has clearly shown that it is pointless to distinguish between passenger rights in national and international transport. in denmark, the railway companies have taken the lead and have already implemented the proposal on passenger rights in the event of delays, as we have proposed in parliament, so of course it can be done.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, congratulations on the election. we are faced here in europe with a problem which is enormous, and i do not think, or am convinced, that unless we are much more efficient we will not be able to solve it. i would like to thank ewa hedkvist petersen. i think she and i agree that what we have now is too weak to move forward. the speed limit is not properly applied, alcohol and control are not properly and sensibly applied. so it should be better than it is now, so we're gonna take this really, really seriously. and let me mention one point which has been most surprising to me. i have been working on road safety for 15 or 20 years, and i have also learned there that good statistics are the prerequisite for doing the work seriously and purposefully. we have a miserable statistic here in the european union, and when we proposed in committee - and we still have amendments - that accidents should of course be measured by the number of people, that is to say, by population, we were voted down. it's like the more cars you have, the safer the country is, because it's going to be on the number of cars you measure it now. that way cyprus will be one of our safest countries because they have so many cars. we can buy a lot more cars, we'll have more security. if we do not get the statistics right, so that we can measure the number of accidents to people and citizens, we can forget about doing any serious joint work on road safety in europe. then it's just going to be a little bit of a joke. and finally, let me thank ewa hedkvist petersen for her cooperation. i hope very much that you will have the opportunity to use your good skills in the future, including in the field of road safety.
the commission's vice-president madam president, i would like to say to the members who have spoken that i will report as precisely as possible on their speeches to my colleague, mr louis michel, who will continue the dialogue on all this development policy in the way you want. i will repeat to him how attentive parliament is to the development of this policy, which it is pursuing, as you know, with great conviction. you both stressed the value of this partnership. i would like to return to the financial envelope. it is true that eur 23.7 billion of this amount should be allocated as operational appropriations for the acp. this is comparable to the 22.7 billion proposed by the luxembourg presidency. this amount will also be integrated by the increased efforts of the european investment bank in supporting the acp states from its own resources. this is still a substantial amount. on an annual basis, it represents an increase of 35% over the 9th european development fund. support to the acp must also be integrated into the wider context of the community's external action and, in general, the acp will also benefit from thematic budget lines and funds reserved for the acp countries signatories to the sugar protocol, amounting to eur 1.2 billion. these funds, which are charged to the general budget of the community, will increase the relative share of the acp countries in the community's development cooperation compared with the previous financial perspective. i think i have thus underlined the progress that some of you have mentioned, while admitting that this policy has yet to be developed much further, since it is true that it is now part of the vocation of the european union.
for the pse group. madam president, i apologize for the delay, but i had to speak elsewhere. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for this very important report and i would say that we need to take this seriously. we have just witnessed the election of 14 vice-presidents of this parliament, of whom only three are women. we are in the process of electing committee chairs and vice-chairs for all the committees of this parliament and i think we should have a policy of gentlemanstreaming in our own political appointments. thank you very much for the work done on the report. i hope that will be followed up.
mr president, i would like to thank you. last friday, something happened that shouldn't have happened. in violation of eu nature protection directives, the polish authorities have authorised the construction of the via baltica road. it is planned to cross a natura 2000 site in one of europe's truly unique natural gems. this is despite the fact that the european commission sent a letter of formal notice to poland in december. now the green light has been given for contractors to start cutting down 20,000 trees this week. it is scandalous that the authorities of an eu country are deliberately breaking eu law. it is not only terrible for nature, it is also de facto detrimental to the legal conscience and the reputation of the european union. this can become a slippery slope where environmental legislation and considerations are ignored at will. i therefore very much hope that the commission will live up to its responsibilities, follow up the letter of intent as soon as possible and put an end to what poland has started.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are producing far too much waste in europe today, and unfortunately the amount is increasing day by day. in fact, the amount is increasing at a rate greater than our wealth. it's also growing more than our gdp. today, each european produces on average 500 kilos of waste a year. a half ton, ladies and gentlemen! of course, these are huge amounts and something must be done about them. the primary objective of this legislation must therefore be to reduce the amount of waste. it is paradoxical, i think, that we all agree on the objectives in principle, but that they are not very clearly set out in the commission's proposal. we therefore support the need for binding quantitative and qualitative targets for the reduction of waste in europe. that said, there are unfortunately other disadvantages to the proposal put forward by the commission. firstly, if you read the proposal, there is not much difference between recycling and incineration of waste, if only the waste, when incinerated, is used to generate energy. it's wrong! both are called recovery, but the skin is deceiving here, because there is a huge difference - from an environmental point of view - in how useful the two processes are. it is clear that if you recycle a bottle, for example, wash it and reuse it, it is much more environmentally beneficial than if you incinerate a plastic bottle. there is also another problem with the way the commission has put things. we need very specific requirements in cases where we have to burn. because, of course, we have to. in those cases we must demand the use of the best technology both in terms of energy efficiency but also, of course, in terms of other negative environmental consequences that may result from combustion. we also do not want ecotourism or ecotourism across borders. we get that if we treat waste like a commodity. to sum up: we must reduce the amount of waste and we must ensure that there is a great difference in the hierarchy. recycling instead of incineration.
the commission. mr president, in recent months all air passengers in the eu have had to put their toothpaste and hair shampoo in a plastic bag before going through security. it is a difficult task, and it has resulted in even longer waiting times at airports. you have to ask yourself if there is any thinking person who believes that this procedure prevents as much as a single terrorist act. if this bureaucracy has any effect at all, it is to move the targets of terrorist actions to other places with many people, such as buses and subways. instead, efforts should be directed towards preventing terrorism by removing the causes of the hatred and bitterness that it engenders. how did it go so wrong? because the commission has rushed these measures on the basis of secret notes. secret notes which the public does not know about and which the elected representatives of the public have no way of checking the quality of. i therefore urge the commission to stop its secrecy and reconsider these measures.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, madam chancellor, mr president of the commission, dear former presidents of parliament, whom i am pleased to recall from the conference of presidents! we now have hans-gert pöttering as president, and he is passionate about more europe, although he also speaks wisely about subsidiarity. he should call a referendum himself, in which he can convince his fellow germans that they too must vote for a constitution with more laws and rules from brussels. 3,000 rules is not enough. it is not enough that 86% of the german laws in the bundestag now come from brussels. listen to the warning of former german president roman herzog, who presided over our charter convention. listen to the referendums in france and the netherlands. the french and the dutch had a chance to vote yes - and they abused it. the lesson is that we must never again have a referendum! the former chairman of the european committee of the bundestag, jürgen meier, told the constitutional convention that a voluntary referendum could be adopted by the bundestag by a simple majority. why not let the germans have their say on the constitution which the president and the german presidency so ardently desire to adopt? officials in brussels and judges in luxembourg suffer from the disease of overcrowding and fear of democracy. they have not grasped the trend of the times towards lean organisations, decentralised responsibility and outsourcing. what is good in business is not good in the eu. nothing should be transferred from brussels to the member states or to the citizens. laws are much better when they can be prepared in 3 000 secret working groups in the commission and adopted in 300 secret working groups in the council of ministers together with 15 000 professional lobbyists. long live the professional government, the corporate eu! mrs. mussolini can send a kind thought to grandpa's fight for corporatism. the electorate can be allowed to come forward every five years and vote for someone who can neither propose nor pass laws! the elected representatives can only advise the commission on amendments. that is the core of today, and it is the core of the constitution - only in many more areas. if something cannot be adopted by ministers and officials in the council, then one can always go to the court of justice in luxembourg with proposals that neither voters, national parliaments nor governments will know anything about. the court of justice has already ruled that the rules on environmental penalties adopted unanimously are unlawful because the judges want the rules to be adopted by majority vote and to be subject to their own control. the right to property is clearly the prerogative of the member states in both treaties and draft constitutions. nevertheless, the danish parliament unanimously declared that the obligation to provide a residence permit for farmers was illegal. the electors and their parliaments are inadequate, family farms are old-fashioned, let us rather have some big prussian junkers running farms all over the eu. the farmers are not fit, the collective agreements between workers and employers are not fit, the penal code is not fit, the national judges are not fit, the voters are not fit! the eu leaders know better! we have won many small victories for openness, and the bundestag in berlin has introduced the best rules yet for transparency in the eu. the time has come for the triad of power - openness, proximity and democracy - to govern the whole of the eu. no more laws that can't be changed by elected officials. no more laws that can't be changed by voters on the next election day. no more treaties and constitutions that have not been adopted by voters in referendums - and preferably on the same day - throughout the eu. the president mentioned our electronic voting machines. i would like to recall the time when we got the new system from olivetti. i would like to have that back, because then my proposals could also be adopted!
in writing. we shall vote against parliament's proposal that the commission withdraw its proposal, but for the commission's proposal. we believe that parliament is trying to blackmail the commission by threatening to withhold 20% of the rural funds. it is not the commission as such that is affected, but the farmers who are not getting their money and, in particular, the european union as a whole, which will hardly be able to gain in prestige if the unbridled extortion between the institutions becomes the norm in future. on behalf of the danish social democratic delegation to the european parliament
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. i thank mrs lévai for her excellent cooperation on the report. thank you to euobserver for the good conference on creative rights. thank you to pia raug, because she didn't just give up, but she convinced most of us. a year ago, culture was losing to the market. people in the commission were used by multinational corporations to implement a piece of so-called soft legislation that could never pass the elected. tomorrow we will have a large majority for all-round culture. the commission will then withdraw its threats to bring legal proceedings against the rights managers and will close the notice on the music market. so listen to the writers, the composers, the users! start anew with a proposal for a directive which we in the european parliament are also helping to negotiate! here the vast majority of members will ensure a wide range of music. we will never allow the supply to be decided by a few multinational companies. we also want to make sure that the less visible artists can find their audience. we as consumers do not want to be satisfied with popular music from the major countries. we will not allow the multinational friends in the commission to expropriate koda and other copyright companies, which every day do a great job of making music accessible and of giving equal treatment to all kinds of music. all users today can be satisfied with one contract with one agency, which then settles with the others. the system is basically good, but in some places it requires more administrative transparency. as music consumers, we want to pay a fair price to authors and composers, but as little as possible to bureaucracy and multinational giants. the lévai report is balanced - it does parliament credit.
mr president, i would like to thank you. - i'm not going to lie to you. there are three points i would like to stress, and it is the very budgetary aspect of the report you have presented that interests me. the programme for better regulation is important, and it should not be seen as an unambitious agenda, as some would like to make it - on the contrary. but like other speakers, i think the commission could be much better at telling us about the efforts it is making to simplify legislation, to assess the impact of new legislation and to better involve the general public when we legislate. many people still see the eu as a bureaucratic ferment that just keeps growing. that is not true, and i think it is important to have it told. i say this especially when you are present, mrs wallström, because you are the one who has to tell it. my second point is the mid-term review of the budget, which is to be prepared in 2008. i really hope that the commission will be ambitious here, because there can be no doubt about the council's willingness to have a genuine open debate on the question of shifting priorities in the coming years. the mid-term reform of agriculture is an important starting point. we need a debate on what kind of agriculture we want, how much or how little support there should be, and whether it is possible to shift funds from agricultural policy to something more forward-looking such as transport investments and research. my last point is very important. it is said that new policy priorities will require almost 1 500 additional staff in 2008. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i don't know if i'm that impressed that you're able to move around 2% of the staff. i believe that we must set new benchmarks for the eu's personnel policy, for the commission's personnel policy. is there sufficient flexibility to ensure the political priorities and does the personnel policy provide sufficient scope to recruit the right experts, for example in the agencies? i also think that we must include such questions in a mid-term evaluation.
member of the commission. thank you, mr president. i do not know whether you will all be disappointed or not, but my birthday is on 22 june. today is commissioner frattini’s birthday. if you will allow me, i will pass on all these good wishes and congratulations to him. i can assure you that he fully deserves it. anyway, thank you and i hope that on 22 june i can somehow be here at parliament again to receive my fair share! let us start with the questions. mrs pleštinská, it is really very important to for all our policies to be financially supported, and we will do our best to accommodate them within the framework of our budget. i believe that the most important thing for you is how you see the policy and how we can maximise what we have in terms of resources through our budget. this relates to education, information, european consumer centres and strengthening enforcement. we can think of many other ways of spending the money, but these are the priorities. in this respect, i am more than happy that you mentioned the eu diary. just today, i distributed several copies during the meeting of the college of commissioners as a reminder of how important it is as a tool. this will remain one of the best ways in which we can be in touch with the younger generation. talking about the younger generation, i think that we what we have in mind about digital rights is very much in line with what they are looking for. the day after tomorrow, i have a meeting in berlin on digital rights and i will specially address the younger members of the audience. in this way they could become more interested in what it means to be a consumer in this, our evolutionary world – europe. and now i come to mrs gebhardt’s question. it is always very important to have a precise policy and a precise vision about how we can use the framework directive, what kind it should be – because there can only be one – and what kind of sectoral influence we could pursue. i am in favour of this mixed approach. i am sure that this horizontal set of rules equally applied to typical consumer contracts and typical consumer rights, relating to enforcement or whatever – this is maybe not in the soul but in the core of consumer protection – is very important. but we cannot exhaust all the sectoral problems. that is why i think we should also focus our attention very much on having sound performance in consumer protection, most importantly in energy, in transport and in telecommunications. that is why i think that being part of the competitiveness council is very important. also, the competition commissioner is a natural ally for consumer policy. so, coming to mrs thyssen’s question about redress, i do not have in mind the united states type of class action. this is not a john grisham story. we have another, european narrative, and this is much more related to collective redress. we have this collective redress in at least ten countries and, in one country, holland, it is closer to a class action, but is still not the same. this is not the only collective redress. we can use alternative dispute resolutions, which are important, test cases and many other things. this is not about maximum harmonisation, but about bottlenecks – when and how we can identify them – and about focusing our attention on this in respect of the highest possible level of harmonisation. so, mr harbour, thank you for saying that i am trying to be a consumer champion. i would gladly share this role with any of my fellow commissioners, because i dream of having a consumer champion from the other sectors. as regards the rome convention, i think that through full harmonisation we can at least overcome some of the shortcomings of rome i. right now, as regards rome i, businesses should comply with the rules of the country from which the problem originates, which does not significantly increase the burden on the business side. i think i have virtually answered mr schwab’s question about what kind of harmonisation we are targeting and about class action. i do not want to challenge the president’s patience by giving quite long answers, but i will be glad to continue this conversation with all of you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for presenting this communication. i am delighted with the commissioner's energy and willingness to do something about consumer policy, and i am also particularly pleased that she is focusing on the whole issue of internet commerce and the rights and opportunities that should be in this area. i think that will be of great interest to many citizens. but my question to the commissioner is about what was said here, that the aim is that wherever you trade in the eu you should be protected in the same way. maybe it's just me who doesn't understand it very clearly. does the commissioner want us to harmonise the rules so that the same rules apply throughout the eu, or should there be minimum rules so that certain countries can have higher level rules if they wish?
mr president, i would like to thank you. with the outcome of last week's summit, we made a historic breakthrough. we are now moving towards a greener europe. but just a few weeks ago, it seemed unrealistic to believe in binding targets to increase the use of renewable energy to one fifth of the eu's total energy consumption by 2020. that went really well! the political framework is now in place and needs to be filled in with concrete content, but here are the problems, here we must keep the banner high. it requires everyone to play a constructive role - both industry and us legislators. but we must also move forward with stricter environmental requirements for cars and aircraft, for example. the commission must take the lead and find its own feet. isn't that right, mr verheugen? and we must be very ambitious to ensure the full liberalisation of the european energy market. we must have a real internal energy market and the german presidency must play a very important role in this. there is much to be thankful for in europe's global leadership. we are leading the way in the search for a successor to the kyoto protocol. standing together in europe, we also have the opportunity to achieve a global climate policy agreement involving hesitant countries like the united states and the fast-moving countries in asia such as china and india. the breakthrough of the summit is the first major step towards a european union after a few years of disarray, beginning with the french and dutch rejection of the constitutional treaty, which left the union in a state of confusion. fortunately, we're over that now. the eu is now proving that we are politically capable of action. we can again find common denominators that bind us together even in areas where strong national interests are at stake. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the eu has regained its optimism, and this is crucial if we are to get the constitutional treaty back on track.
mr president, president-in-office of the council, first of all i would like to say ‘well done’ for what was not an easy task. this was commendable work by mr steinmeier, a man with a reputation for persistence and determination. i welcome this achievement which, i think, is a very strong landmark for the european union, making europe a front-runner in tackling climate change worldwide. my hope is now of course that this is not only a text adopted by the european council, but something that will be implemented in the member states. i therefore take it for granted that, as the uk conservative member said, it will be implemented in the uk too, together with uk businesses and the conservatives under tony blair’s leadership – thanks a lot for that one! (laughter) my second point is that climate and energy policy is not a cost, but a new competitive parameter and a new opportunity to create more and better jobs, as called for in the lisbon agenda. i want to underline that new, smart, green growth could and should be a new dynamo in the lisbon process, as commissioner verheugen said himself, and as you also underlined, president-in-office. i agree with the points made by commissioner verheugen, but there was one little word missing, and that is ‘coordination’: coordination of economic investments in these areas, to enable us to take on the enormous investment task we face. one thousand million euros is the estimate of the total investment needed in the coming years and this needs coordination in order to provide the extra synergy the european union can generate. so, you have our best wishes for this endeavour. we in the party of european socialists are here to help you.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. the president of the federal republic of germany! it was a lovely people's party in the streets of berlin, but it was irrelevant, the signature was a sign of euro-nationalism. mrs merkel made a good speech. our own president, mr pöttering, signed a text on behalf of myself and my colleagues, even though we had not yet received the text and had no opportunity to influence it. it must never happen again! the european parliament should not be involved in the drafting of texts which members are not allowed to see until they have been adopted. the most important sentence is the last sentence, with the obligation to adopt a new constitution, which could enter into force before the european elections in june 2009. germany wants to have the constitution changed, the name changed and perhaps the flag and anthem removed from the text, but not from reality. part ii is deleted in order to adopt the common basic rights in two lines. part iii is being rewritten with a few amendments so that the constitution can be presented as a small innocent amendment, but the main content will be the same as that rejected by the french and dutch voters. that is why all democratic forces should now be united in demanding a referendum on the next treaty in all countries. and why not the same day? then our leaders will be forced to write a text that can be approved by the voters. then the next treaty will give more influence to the voters instead of taking influence from the voters, as the constitution does. the point is that in 59 areas unanimity is being replaced by qualified majority voting. from unanimity, where the voters in each country have the final say, to a qualified majority among officials and ministers and lobbyists behind closed doors in brussels. that is the main rule: too much machiavelli and too little montesquieu! thank you, mr president, even though there is nothing to thank you for!
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank mr itälä for the excellent work he has done on the report on parliament's 2008 budget. he proposes that next year expenditure should in principle be at the 2007 level, and we in the alde group can agree with that as a matter of principle. after enlargement, 2008 is a year of consolidation and additional needs must therefore be very well justified if they are to have budgetary implications. on the other hand, we would agree with the view that 2008 will probably be the last year in which we can use the difference of up to 20% of administrative expenditure in the union for the purchase of buildings. last but not least, i would like to stress what mr maňka also said, namely that now that we have a statute for members, we must support a statute for members' assistants here in parliament. we need the council's support on this point. without this support we cannot get things in order. let's do something about it!
in writing. we voted for the report because it provides a practical way out of the present complicated system of eu own resources with rebates and special schemes. the right of the countries to self-determination in the field of taxation must of course be respected in a new system. it is also important that a new source of revenue for the eu does not mean higher taxes.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, i have just returned from the poorest member state of the european union, romania. it strikes me again that warmth and hospitality are greatest where the need is greatest. but you can't afford a modest apartment for a romanian teacher's salary of €180. our countries are in the process of ratifying a special quota rebate for rich countries such as the united kingdom, sweden, the netherlands, austria and germany. poor countries like bulgaria and romania must help pay the quota for the richest member states! the sheriff of nottingham has been sitting on the eu fund, where is robin hood? when denmark joined the eec with the uk and ireland, we got a discount. we paid 20% the first year, 40% the next, then 60, 80 and first 100% in the fifth year. we were rich, we got a discount. romania and bulgaria, together with the other new member states, will pay the full quota. in return, they get a reduction in their payouts. only 25% of the agricultural budget in the first year, then 30, 35 and so on. how bad can we be? can i ask the committee on budgets to examine the distributive effects of the eu budget and european integration and to propose a budgetary reform that redistributes from the rich to the poor in the eu? why not give free membership to countries with, say, less than 75% of the average income? why not eliminate all agricultural aid above, say, € 40 000? why not stop the disbursement of structural funds in the richest half of the countries and then focus aid on the poorest? such a budget would mean less revenue for denmark. i am sure that our voters will be happy to pay contributions to help the new member states. on the other hand, all aid to romania and bulgaria must be transparent, so that we can see whether the money is going to development or to an old guard of corrupt politicians and their oligarch friends. i just read gus's book on romania. it is distributed to all members in english. it's a shocking read about corruption. one sentence, mr president: the committee on budgetary control should check as soon as possible whether mr gusa's allegations are true. the firing of the attorney general and a violent attack on gusa and his colleague before the weekend unfortunately suggests gusa is right. romania should be looked after, but also encouraged with a fairer budget.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mr virrankoski, for a report which sets out very clearly some of the issues we are seeing here ahead of the presentation by the commission of the draft budget for 2008. we in the alde group agree that the eu must maintain its focus on the lisbon process through the budget in order to be able to react quickly when new issues such as energy and climate change arise. but we must all admit that the budgetary framework is very narrow and inflexible. it makes it difficult to get all the wishes fulfilled. i would urge the commission to take an interest in parliament's priorities. the commission is happy to lean on parliament when it is short of staff and money, but when it comes to parliament's priorities it immediately becomes more difficult. that is true in the big picture and it is true in the small. for example, a few years ago parliament adopted a pilot project to prevent attacks on drivers and to ensure that they have decent conditions when they rest. and what is the commission doing about this matter, which is being closely followed by truck drivers, drivers and their families? very little, too little! the public's response is too small, the arrogance is too great! if i have to go out and explain to my constituents that more staff are needed in the commission, it would help a great deal if i could also say that those staff actually care about the concerns and wishes of the electorate. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i look forward to the next review of staffing requirements. we should also look at whether the staff policy is sufficiently flexible to give effect to the political priorities. one last point: the commission has already proposed an amendment to the financial programming for the period 2007-13. these are growth appropriations, such as buildings, bridges and railways, to be channelled to the staff of the agencies. the budget for legal policy must also be allocated to agencies. the framework is tight and a mid-term revision of the financial perspective is needed. we can see that now.
the commission is not i am not sure that this is the case. the annual clearance of accounts shall cover all the accounts and sub-accounts of the institutions of the union. the court of auditors' reports are being examined in detail. the commission has actively contributed to the lighting and the secretariat of the committee on budgetary control has done a great deal of work to enable members to assess the contents of the accounts. we have reason to regret that the court of auditors has not been able to issue a blank statement of assurance again this year. it is becoming increasingly clear that the conditions under which the european union operates make it almost impossible for the court of auditors to make such a blanket statement. this is largely due to the fact that some 80% of eu funds are returned to the member states and managed there with a high degree of variability in the overall picture due to the many forms and different qualities of national administrations. if we are to avoid the problems of proper management of eu funds, it is hardly enough to simply demand more controls. we must ask ourselves whether the current aid legislation both in the agricultural sector and in the structural funds should be completely overhauled. the former dutch commissioner, mr bolkestein, recently pointed out that 85% of eu spending could be cut with benefits. it is, in fact, pointless for the 15 old eu countries to give money to each other. it's like social welfare from the middle class to the middle class in a single country. the old member states were much better placed to organise the necessary aid for their development from their own resources. it is a nightmare that other countries have to pay for something by virtue of eu law that a country does not want to pay for or could pay for itself. those who do not reform will be helped by those who have reformed, and they will not have to do anything themselves. and as the former swedish prime minister, göran persson, said: 'it cannot be right that we, who are willing to tax our citizens heavily, should pay to countries which do not want to tax their own citizens.' in my country, for example, they charge 200% tax on cars, in order to send a lot of money to countries where i see many more new cars than in copenhagen, and they are not taxed at all. it doesn't make any sense. my group will vote for discharge for most of the members. i have some reservations myself because i think that parts of the expenditure management in the commission and in some committees are not up to normal standards. i would like to thank the secretariat of the committee on budgetary control for a very large amount of work and also thank my colleagues in the committee for many substantial comments in this debate and for the good cooperation that exists in the committee as a whole.
for the pse group. mr president, in the socialist group we recommend that discharge be given. we recommend that we approve the 2005 budgets, but we do not do so without comments, and we do not do so without demands. we have two basic demands. firstly, we believe that controls must be tightened even more. we do not think that the taxpayers' money is being properly managed. secondly, we also believe that there is a need for more openness, for more transparency. the first point is that some progress has been made. we'll give you that. we also commend the introduction of a new accounting system in the commission. it has not been an easy process, but it has gone beyond all expectations. i also recognize that the integrated financial control system, especially for agricultural resources, has been implemented for a large part of the budget, and that is of course very positive. but we are also critical of the areas where the court of auditors has unfortunately had some rather significant criticisms. this is particularly true of internal policies, but unfortunately it also applies to some agricultural resources. we're just gonna have to tighten up. the commission must tighten up, but especially in the member states. the fact is that about 80% of the eu funds that members know are managed through shared management, i.e. the money is actually spent outside the member states. it is clear that we are, of course, completely dependent on it, the commission is dependent on it, we as parliament are dependent on it, on the member states taking this responsibility seriously, and unfortunately we do not feel that they are. we need a clear allocation of political responsibility and this must be followed up in relation to next year. it is also clear that the whole debate on openness has been going on for a few years now. and we're very happy about that. we are also pleased with the very good measures taken by the commission. we believe that it should be possible for every citizen in europe to go online and see how eu money has been distributed for agricultural funds, for structural funds, etc. this process is under way, but it must of course be followed right to the door. we also need greater openness about the many working groups. we need the names of the people who are participating.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. if one is to point to one area where the eu is delivering results for citizens, maritime safety legislation is a good example. there is a lot of good international and global regulation of maritime safety, and we must never forget that shipping is a global industry. and the eu has in recent years developed into a leading area with requirements for good maritime safety and with a strong preparedness for oil spills and other polluting accidents. we can be glad of this, even if it has happened against a tragic background, namely the great disasters such as the erika and prestige sinkings. the third maritime safety package follows on from the legislation that followed these two disasters. i would like to highlight in particular the two directives for which i was rapporteur for my group, namely the directive on port state control and the directive on accident investigation. i would like to thank mrs vlasto for the excellent and great work she has done on the port state control directive. she supports the principles proposed by the commission, namely that all ships should be checked, that bad ships should be checked extra hard, and that the worst ships should not be allowed to enter european waters at all. port state control should be brought up to a proper standard, so that controls are more uniform across all eu ports and the role of pilots in reporting bad ships is clarified. mrs vlasto has reworked the commission's proposal so that we have a much clearer division of the ships into good and bad ships. i would like to thank her for that and for her compromise-seeking and responsive approach to this report. the alde group has therefore not tabled any amendments to the report submitted by the committee on transport. i should also like to thank mr kohlíček for his good cooperation on the directive on accident investigation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's shipping fleet is not compromised. we must learn from the accidents that actually happen and as many as possible should learn from the experience of others. i have emphasized that, in line with what we know from aviation, incentives should be provided to ensure that all those involved give as open and honest a description of the accident as possible. a witness' statement at the preliminary examination should not be used directly in connection with an indictment, where the rights of an accused are to be examined. it is a difficult balance and i thank mr kohlíček for a good result. the alde group proposes that fishing vessels under 24 metres should also be included in the surveys. there are many accidents here, but i can accept that we set the limit for fishing vessels under 15 metres if that will help the proposal. so i hope for the support of my colleagues.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner and mr gloser for their statements on us-european relations. i feel that the united states’ mood and strategy is gradually and tentatively changing from unilateralism to multilateralism. just six days ago i, my good colleague mr wiersma, the vice-chairman of our group, and other colleagues visited the united states congress and senate and it is quite clear that the mood is changing. this provides a new opportunity for the european union. i have three reflections to share with you. firstly, i think that a precondition for progress on the wto negotiations is that we somehow incorporate the ‘decent work agenda’. let us face it: it is not possible to obtain new and substantial progress without it. secondly, it is time to realise that the financial markets and the recent developments in hedge funds and very large and powerful private equity funds are not fully compatible with the lisbon goals and our long-term investment and financing needs. this observation is not just a european one but is also being increasingly made by the democratic party, which holds the majority in the us congress and senate. we therefore hope that this signal will be clear and that the issue will be discussed at the forthcoming g8 meeting in heiligendamm. thirdly, on the middle east, we should not be naive and expect major changes in american policy in the next two weeks. however, it would be worthwhile to step up our dialogue with our american friends and colleagues and to insist on backing the palestinian unity government. if that government fails, the winners will be hamas and nobody wants that. (applause from the left)
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals on ethics which are quite superfluous and which at best do nothing but screw up the whole of the matter. the principle of free donation of tissues and cells is already enshrined in the tissue and stem cell directive. we support this principle before, during and after this vote. the member states have, and should have, the power to make ethical decisions.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament voted in favour of amendment no 43, tabled by umberto guidoni, jens holm, athansasios pafilis, vladimir remek and ilda figueiredo for the gue/ngl group. the delegation considers that the quality of the directive is not high enough. on the one hand, it does not sufficiently prevent organized crime in the area which is the object of the proposal. on the other hand, it does not protect citizens who have inadvertently infringed intellectual property rights. the danish social democrats in the european parliament did not vote on the whole proposal because the delegation considered that it was against the rules in force. the delegation would, however, like to underline its support for the enforcement of intellectual property rights.
in writing. in today's vote on homophobia in europe, i have chosen to vote neither for nor against the report as a whole, despite the fact that i very much agree with what is expressed in the report. i have voted neither for nor against, because i do not think that it should be a 'people's court' that condemns poland, but a real court. the european parliament has no competence to do this. in the case of violations of human rights, the matter should be referred to the court of human rights.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i am not sure that this is the case. as regards health, our position is clear: we believe that equal access to high-quality health care in your community is a fundamental right for all citizens. that is why we also want to maintain that each government in each of the 27 eu countries has a responsibility to ensure that their citizens have proper health care. at the same time, we are clear that governments which are unwilling or unable to provide their citizens with adequate health care do not deserve the support of their citizens. that is why we are also against the report we are considering today. it will shift responsibility away from individual governments and onto market forces. it is certainly no coincidence that the conclusion of the report is to call on the commission to reinstate health services in the services directive. we are not against crossborder cooperation in the field of health. we are in favour of establishing close cooperation in border regions, in particular with a view to ensuring easy access to local hospitals. we are also in favour of cooperation at european level to cure rare diseases. but we are against a development whereby patients have to be transported throughout the eu, depending on where it is economically viable for those who have to pay. this is the method we have accepted for far too long in the pig sector. we are not going to introduce it in the case of sick people! i therefore call on the members of our group to vote against the proposal in its present form.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. health is a human right recognized by the united nations. the right to a high standard of health is guaranteed by the treaty for all eu policies. but instead of removing subsidies for unhealthy products, the advocates of the internal market now want to make health a commodity that can be sold freely on market terms. it provides more health care for those who can afford it, but less health care for those who cannot afford the market price. it provides low-cost health care to rich people who travel to poor countries to get their health checks. this, in turn, makes it harder for most citizens in poor countries, as well as for many poor citizens in rich countries, to pay for health care. the services directive provides for wage competition in the health sector. foreign companies are free to establish themselves and provide health services of any kind. danish taxpayers are forced to pay the same subsidy to all suppliers, regardless of quality and salary. we can send our model agreement with democratically adopted agreements to the workers' museum. citizens can go to the polls, but we can no longer vote for health for all. let the countries themselves decide how they want to organise the health system between the private and the public. respect the danish model of tax-funded social and health rights for all and our contract model in the labour market.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. - madam president! in 1995, the countries of the north sea agreed to stop the release of some of the most dangerous substances within 25 years. the objective was included in ospar and in the revision of the barcelona convention. we in the european parliament have also taken up the principle of the water framework directive, although the time limit was not mentioned. but then the commission forgot all about it! it took a long time - not two years as agreed but 41⁄2 years - for the commission to come forward with its proposal. in addition, there were far too few substances on the list of dangerous substances. ambitions for the aquatic environment slipped down. it is bad for the water, but also for the eu's reputation. the aquatic environment is a matter of concern to the people of europe and we should live up to expectations on the part of the european union. we must not fail to keep the promises we have so clearly and so often made! fortunately, the committee on the environment was given a very good correction on the commission's proposal. we are very grateful to mrs laperrouze for the work she has done in the circle of rapporteurs in securing important compromises. the committee then voted on a number of further improvements to the commission's proposal, so that we now have a fine result indeed! as usual, we have been under tremendous pressure from reactionary industries which refuse to modernise their production methods. but tomorrow, when we vote, it is up to us, the european parliament, to ensure that the eu lives up to the objectives of ospar and the water framework directive. we must not bow to the old polluting industry. we owe it to our environment, our health, and our descendants to stand firm.
mr president, prime minister, anyone who heard the american president saying at the press conference after the summit with the european union that ‘we have had a nice meeting with these people from the european union’ would wonder whether he was thinking about mr barroso, chancellor angela merkel, or who? anyone who saw or heard the american president could be in no doubt that we need one voice for the european union, and that is why we thank you for your clarity in your speech today. anyone who has been to the middle east is also in no doubt that we need one voice for the european union. that is why, prime minister prodi, it is one thing to speak in the european parliament – we all know that, as this is not the most difficult place to argue for a better treaty – but it is another to speak in the igc, when the hard stuff comes and it is face to face. i know you are a strong and firm prime minister. we respect you. stand firm, prime minister, and we will stand firm with you, on behalf of the european socialists and progressives all around europe. i think you will have a strong majority behind you standing firm together with you for the benefit of european people in the future.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i should also like to begin by thanking mr mauro for his excellent cooperation. i would like to say that we have had good cooperation between the committee on budgets and the committee on transport on this matter. it is high time we had this legislation. i would also like to point out, as mr jarzembowski did, that the agreement was concluded back in november and that it could not be done quickly enough. but since then the ministers have had a very good time - too good a time - and the formal adoption in the council was not until march. so here we are, at a time when the commission should be busy drawing up work programmes and calling for projects from the member states. i think the whole process of this legislation gives the impression that the member states are a little halfhearted about these very important transport investments. this is also reflected in the council's drastic cuts in the budgetary framework, where the transeuropean networks were cut from 20 million euro to 8. i am convinced that more funds will be needed and that the mid-term review in 2009 will not only provide more money for the galileo satellite system but also for the transeuropean networks. i would also like to welcome the inclusion in the regulation of new financial instruments, such as the fehmern-belt link, which will be financed by borrowing and will have to be paid for by the users. the commission has already proposed that the bridge's economy be guaranteed for the first five years. i think it is good that the european investment bank is thus helping to develop new financial instruments. we need better crossborder corridors in europe, and as the public treasuries are short of money, it is important that we find new ways of financing them. the comitology was a point of contention between parliament and the council. the majority of this parliament bowed, and i would like to thank commissioner barrot for his promise to involve parliament in the preparation of the work programme. i look forward to a result soon so that we can release this year's budget, which we have put in reserve, and so that work can get under way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. only nine months after we first discussed roaming proposals in parliament, we are now faced with a result of which we can be very proud. commissioner reding, i want to give you a big round of applause for your great work in fighting for cheaper phone bills. but we have also done our part here in parliament. there is one winner in this battle: the european consumer. european customers will already feel the lower prices on 1 august 2007. it will cost no more than $1.50 to call home from abroad. the losses of the european telecommunications companies will not make me cry many tears. they have moaned and cried, but the reality has been that they have made a fortune with money from consumers. up to 95% of the roaming revenue was pure profit. fortunately, we have put a stop to that now. but it was tough. in the committee on the internal market we were very much at odds. my colleagues simon coveney of the ppe and joseph muscat of the pse wanted to go in two different directions, and the dance of the liberals was intense. but now we're all here in one big group. so i'll take you to dance some other time, mr. muscat! once again, thank you for your cooperation and i hope that mrs reding will now move forward with the whole area of sms and text messaging, as this area is missing from the proposal.
i have to say, madam president, every year there are 270 million occupational accidents. in total, 2.2 million workers die each year as a result of poor working conditions, and an estimated 60 million children worldwide are engaged in hard and dangerous work. in the wto, in our trade agreements and in our development aid, we need to put more emphasis on decent work. but the european consumers must also be activated. consumers are willing to fight for workers' rights. we see this in the growing interest in fair trade products, and consumers are willing to pay extra for these goods if there is assurance that they are produced under decent working conditions. consumers, customers, employees and investors must be able to choose products and suppliers to or from, depending on whether the goods have been produced with the life and limbs of the workers in mind. an optional product label for products produced under decent working conditions will provide consumers with the information necessary to ensure that decent working conditions remain in the interests of both consumers and businesses. a european product label built around the ilo's fundamental workers' rights could make a difference.
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister! you can be proud of the dutch people. 62% voted no - against the advice of most politicians. nevertheless, you are now under pressure from germany, where at least 70% of the people would vote no if they were allowed to vote on the constitution. that is, of course, a claim which the germans are welcome to refute. but i, a traveler in constitutional criticism, have never been to a country with more resistance. the citizens want the eu to intervene less. they want a real principle of proximity. even former german president roman herzog is now warning against over-centralisation and de-democratization. 84% of german laws come from brussels. there is no democracy in brussels! he says that it is doubtful whether the federal republic can be called a parliamentary democracy. it is germany that is now swinging the hammer at its french and dutch neighbours and saying: your people were wrong. rewrite the constitution and abolish referendums! why do you accept it, mr. prime minister? why do you not insist that germany too should consult the electorate before going to war with the electorate of the neighbouring countries? the dutch negotiators now want a different presentation of the constitution - presentation is the key word! - so that a referendum can be avoided. but you propose no substantial and real changes to the rejected text, and two years have now passed and we have not reached 80% of the countries. the constitution is legally dead. starting over with new negotiations and referenda throughout the eu. then the german government will be dealt with.
member of the commission. madam president, i want to start by thanking parliament, the committee on agriculture and rural development, and the rapporteur, mr busk, for the swift and constructive way the proposal was dealt with. secondly, on behalf of mrs fischer-boel, i am grateful for the political support you are giving to the proposal. i also greatly appreciate the positive thrust of the committee on agriculture’s report. we are discussing a very specific subject: the european parliament’s opinion on the single common market organisation, or cmo. simplification in the field of agriculture is one of the flagships of the commission. this text is different from most commission proposals in the area of the cap. why? with the single cmo we want to make an important step towards simplifying and improving the legislative framework of the common agricultural policy. i know that it has become popular to talk about simplification and better regulation. this proposal shows very clearly what these terms can mean in practice. the single cmo will merge all 21 cmos into one text. it will replace more than 40 council regulations and almost 620 articles and it will reduce the number of articles and pages in the official journal by more than two thirds. apart from such merely quantitative parameters, the single cmo will make our market legislation more homogenous and consistent, in other words more easily accessed and read and thus better understood and applied. according to the presidency’s planning, this proposal will be discussed at the meeting of the special committee for agriculture on 29 may and 4 june and probably on 11 june in the council. let me also at this stage thank parliament for helping make this early decision possible. from time to time the commission is told that the single cmo is not enough to make our farmers’ lives easier. i fully agree. it takes more than one legislative text to achieve real simplification. that is why the single cmo is only one element, even though a very important one, of several components of simplification strategy in agriculture. other components, as you will recall, include the commission’s cross-compliance report, which will have a real impact on farmers’ lives once its proposals are implemented, the simplification action plan, currently with 37 practical measures, which agriculture is busy implementing, and the health check, which will also be targeted at further simplifying the cap. but back to the cmo. as i have already said, on behalf of the commission, i appreciate the positive tone of the report and i will therefore be able to accept a number of amendments set out in the committee on agriculture report. but you will not be surprised that i have some serious difficulties with some of the proposed amendments because i believe they would unnecessarily reduce the proposal’s impact. i would like to mention two points of particular importance. first there is the request to keep two areas entirely out of the single cmo until they are reformed: fruit and vegetables and wine. i do not share this view but i could accept incorporation of their substantive parts only after the reform processes are over. the second point concerns the set-up of the management committee. the committee on agriculture report recommends four subsections. this would in our view be in contradiction with the single cmo and make the new committee unnecessarily inflexible. but i can assure you that the commission is determined to organise the meetings of the single committee in such a way as to include the necessary expertise and take account of the specificities of the sectors concerned. thank you for your attention at this late hour. i am looking forward to the discussion.
the commission is not i would like to thank the president-in-office. commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased. i would like to begin by thanking the german presidency and the commission for their very good cooperation in the preparation of this report. the cooperation has been based on openness and trust and has undoubtedly contributed to the adoption of this report by a very large majority in the committee on agriculture. i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on agriculture for some interesting debates and for their great contribution to this report. it has been a pleasure to cooperate with you on this matter. the commission has put forward a very ambitious proposal, and i welcome it! it is good to simplify, it is good to create openness, it is good to create transparency, and i believe that this proposal is very much the result of that. having said that, it should be added that this simplification is first and foremost visible in the legislative text itself, which is reduced from 600 to 200 pages in total. it shows that a lot has happened! this package of legislation constitutes the framework conditions of the agricultural sector and the overall objective should be to create clarity about the framework conditions in such a way that it is also perceived as a simplification by those who are the target of this report, namely the operators. this is not a real change of policy, and it is not a simplification that will be felt by the end user - the farmer. many people have complained along the way that this was anything but a simplification. the operators have worked with one or perhaps a few market schemes so far, which will now be incorporated into this one, which in turn includes all the old schemes. some may not at first perceive this as an oversimplification. however, for those who use several of the sectoral market organisations or who want to quickly get an overview of the different market organisations, this consolidated set of rules is definitely a simplification. the commission proposes that a number of technical provisions be transferred from the council to the commission. these are provisions which the council has hitherto been able to adopt without consulting the european parliament, the so-called second generation agreements. as far as purely technical provisions are concerned, i think it is very appropriate to delegate these as a regulatory power to the commission, which can thus take very rapid and effective decisions. but i would like to stress that any decision of a political nature must continue to be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 37 of the treaty, that is to say, after consulting the european parliament. as a natural extension of simplification, the commission proposes that only one management committee be set up in future. i am very sceptical about that, as i cannot imagine that only one management committee can provide the necessary expertise. it is so different from the many market mechanisms we have, for example when we look at animal production and vegetable production, and it applies to all the different sectors. the committee on agriculture has therefore proposed the setting up of four management committees. it is an area which i would like the commission to keep a close eye on and to report on. the committee on agriculture wants an evaluation to be made of how things have gone two years on. we must now look again at the number of management committees. we must look at the organization, we must look at the expertise and we must look at the way this very important area, the market area, works. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the commission. i am convinced that the commission and the committee on agriculture will be able to continue to cooperate in this area.
thank you, mr president! i would also like to thank the commissioner and the high representative. but i'm just not sure. we in the green group have tried to discuss with each other what we have been told. it is a top priority for us that we now recognise the palestinian government and that action is taken. and i just can't hear if that's what we were told. that is not what we heard from mr solana, but it is what we heard from mrs ferrero-waldner. that you're willing to acknowledge and move on. i think we need a clear answer to that, because that is what is frustrating the whole system. that we just experience words and words and words and no action. the double standards and the paralysis are destroying not only the middle east but also the european union. the second thing we must be clear about is what it means to support the arab initiative now. i could not hear in mr solana's presentation that they were actually going to do that. i could only hear them saying that we must now resume negotiations. but we know where we're going. it is a difficult process to make it happen, but we know the outcome, and it is not familiar to mention the arab initiative again and again and then take all the power out of it by saying, 'we shall see'. we have to say that's where we start. there we have the final result, which we all know very well is the only acceptable one for us to move forward with, and which is, moreover, what both the west and israel have been asking for for a long time before it was suddenly on the table. can we not get clear answers? that would be nice.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, the alde group supports the principle proposed by mr itälä for parliament's 2008 budget, namely that the budget should be kept at the level of 2007, taking inflation into account. it shall not be higher than this unless there are special reasons for this. the 2008 budget is a consolidation year, after the enlargements and the additional appropriations that followed them. now is the time to get down to business and continually look at ways of making our administration more efficient and prioritizing our work. of course, there are new needs. there are things that can be done better. this applies to interpretation and translation, where it is not always possible for members to get the service they need, and to the requirements for professional support in legal work, which are also growing. the european parliament should also develop better communication tools to make it easier to follow its work, for example through web-tv. however, as a general rule, the money for these improvements should be within the budgetary framework mentioned. but now the bureau has decided to set the draft budget at eur 1.49 billion, which is 20% of the administrative expenditure in the eu, and that is the amount we are setting as the ceiling for the budget. at the same time, a reserve of eur 55 million has been set aside for property policy and new political priorities. eur 10 million for the 2009 election campaign and some eur 14 million for contingency costs. but the parliament's leadership does not give any further details of what projects they have in mind. in the alde group we have always supported the property policy. it is good that parliament has bought buildings rather than renting them when it is most advantageous. we also support the campaign before the elections, but we do not think it is fair to present a budget with such large amounts of money that have not been explained. the budget must reflect actual needs and provide a clear and transparent picture of the economy for the coming years. so there is a task for mr itälä, and i wish him luck in negotiating a more realistic budget. parliament should take the lead and exercise budgetary discipline at least on a par with that which we expect and require of the other institutions.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the presidency and my two good colleagues, barón crespo and brok, want us to ignore the french and dutch electorate. they voted wrong, and they can't vote again. the presidency, the rapporteurs and the large majority of this parliament want the whole of the rejected constitution to be implemented under a new name and without a referendum. sarkozy's mini-treaty does not mean less duties. "mini" refers to the form of decision-making, minimal influence on the electorate, no more referendums. the german chancellor has led the way. she demands that all countries accept the contents of a constitution which her country has not even ratified. both in slovakia and germany constitutional trials are ahead. the former president of the constitutional court in karlsruhe, the former german president and also the president of our convention on fundamental rights, roman herzog, has pointed out that 84% of german laws now come from brussels and that it is already doubtful whether germany can be called a parliamentary democracy. with 59 new areas without the veto of national parliaments, the eu countries will no longer be parliamentary democracies. it is no longer doubtful, but unquestionable, that the legislation on civil servants and lobbyists has supplanted the form of government we called parliamentary democracy. there's a consolation. only 16 of the 27 countries, representing 37% of the eu's electorate, have ratified the constitution within the two-year deadline agreed unanimously. so, formally, the constitution is dead. let us have a new directly elected convention draw up a text that can be adopted because it complements living national democracies with openness, closeness and democracy in the areas where we decide to legislate jointly. and let us hold referendums throughout the eu and thereby give the voters the final say.
mr president, i would like to make a point of order based on rules 166 and 167 on the admissibility of part of a resolution. parliament’s legal service has said that we cannot use a non-ratified treaty as a reference in our reports. this applies to the first indent of the barón crespo/brok report. (applause from the ind/dem group) i would like you to delete the reference, if the house should be so unwise as not to adopt our alternative resolution, which could solve the problem of inadmissibility much more easily. may i also ask you to change all other reports referring to the proposed constitution or the charter of fundamental rights. according to eurolex, 117 adopted legislative acts now include such references to the charter. there are seven references to the constitution. this information comes from commission president barroso, in an answer to a written question. mr president, i am sure that you and mr pöttering, in particular, as a skilled and very well educated lawyer, are the right people to establish law and order in our house. the constitution has only been ratified by 16, not 18, of the 27 member states, representing 37% of the citizens. this is still far from the unanimity required to make it a legal-base reference point. your legal service is entirely right. (applause from certain quarters)
in writing. the danish social democrat delegation to the european parliament has voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the road map for the union's constitutional process. we would like to stress in this connection that the question of how and when each member state chooses to ratify a new treaty should remain a sovereign national matter. we do not think that the european parliament should be the only one to have to deal with the problem of the question of the ratification of the treaty of rome.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. i would like to thank the president-in-office. - i'm not going to lie to you. i am the rapporteur for the committee on agriculture, which has been the consultative committee on this proposal. we adopted almost unanimously a clear definition that vodka should be produced from potatoes and from cereals. at the same time, it was intended that there should be increased cooperation between the committee on the environment and the committee on agriculture on this matter. i regret to say that we in the committee on agriculture have not noticed that very much. vodka is a quality product with a very long history, and we should protect that. we should protect vodka production in exactly the same way as we protect whisky production, cognac production and all other spirits production in europe. i am sorry to hear that in this circle - in this parliament - respect is shown for the people and countries whose culture includes vodka production. it must also be a short-term interest to produce vodka as a product without a definition and as a place where you can easily use what you have left over as waste. the fact that consumers should not care whether vodka is made of one or the other is a very big misunderstanding these days. the consumer wants information, information, information!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by sincerely thanking the rapporteur, mrs eva-britt svensson, for her excellent work and very good cooperation in this matter. the regulation we are discussing today is a good, important and very necessary piece of legislation. it is good legislation because it sends a clear signal to the many citizens of the european union who have asked us to do something to prevent dogs and cats from being used for fur production. we're showing them that we're actually listening to their concerns and taking active action to stop animal cruelty. it is also an important piece of legislation because it has been shown that we cannot stop the sale of dog and cat fur by simply banning it in individual member states. during the committee's consideration of the regulation, mr stevenson of imco presented us with many skins from dogs and cats which had been bought in europe, including one made from four golden retrievers - the skins were bought in copenhagen, where i come from. in denmark we already have a ban, but it obviously does not work well enough. that is why we need an effective ban at eu level. the proposal is also necessary because many dogs and cats live miserable lives and even end up in the worst suffering imaginable - all because they have to provide skins for clothes and toys. by making a common eu ban, we are reducing the market for the sale of dog and cat fur and at the same time we are sending a strong signal that we are strongly opposed to animal cruelty. i am therefore very pleased that we have managed to make such a strict and good ban as it is. the exceptions which will be made will be so exceptional that they will each have to be justified and approved. we are as close to a total ban as is legally possible at the moment, and that is good. but the text of the law is not enough. it is essential that we continue to work on developing methods to identify the origin of the hides even more effectively and to stop the trafficking of the illegal hides that unscrupulous bakers would not hesitate to sell.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank glenys kinnock for an excellent report on the mid-term evaluation of the mdgs. i am particularly pleased that we are calling for a common approach to trade, development and agricultural aid. our shameful practice of giving with one hand and taking often much more - with the other hand must end. at the same time, the report refers to a number of highly relevant areas of assistance. however, we barely got it through the development committee. many of the amendments tabled by the ppe-de group were only marginally rejected, and had they been adopted, we would have had a very diluted report. the report contains nothing but what the member states have long since solemnly and carefully promised the poor. and a sharp criticism of the fact that those promises have not been fulfilled. the report makes it clear that the practice of using debt relief as a clever way of meeting one's obligations is reprehensible. the debt is often rightly written off or written off altogether in the donor countries, so that those who receive the aid money in this way are the rich donor countries. we cannot be aware of that, and the whole of parliament should be united in rejecting this kind of nonsense. we should stick to criticism and self-criticism. our credibility is damaged. promises should be kept. the millennium development goals and the goals that came up in last week's pompous g8 talks on africa's problems are important, and it says something about the seriousness of the council's attitude to its promises that they do not even want to be here with us today. they certainly do not take themselves seriously, and it is hard to see how we can do so! however, attention should not be directed solely to how the member states can escape the requirements or get away from them as cheaply as possible. what we should be coming together about is how we can achieve our goal of halving poverty by 2015. we must also be very careful to keep our promises if we are to maintain our credibility with the developing countries. we should work on ways of doing this. no one should be able to escape from his obligations unnoticed.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to let you do this. mr president of the council! i also think that mrs oomen-ruijten's proposal today is a good one and i thank her for it. the proposal takes account of labour market mobility and does not undermine existing solidarity schemes such as the danish occupational pensions. the rules on the free transfer of pension schemes, as proposed by the commission, may be welcomed, but it is difficult to find a model that is compatible with existing schemes. that is why i think that this is a good solution that we have got, which does not include transfers. in denmark we have rules which guarantee the right to free transfer for the first two years after a change of job and which set a ceiling on the costs which pension companies can charge for transfer. there is nothing to prevent each member state from developing rules on the transfer of pensions in this way. the proposal before us guarantees the basic rights of individual pension savers with rules on accrual and vesting rights and on information. it's the least we can ask. and for those who change jobs across borders, this legislation is particularly important.
i have to say, madam president, in denmark we have over dkk 2 200 billion in pension savings, and they are saved up by tax deductions. then the european court of justice rules against taxing savings in other countries. we must allow full tax deductions now without having the security of tax payments later. the june movement wants free competition to give citizens the largest possible pension payout for our deposits, but it must be fair competition. we will also maintain our tax-funded social model with equal social citizenship rights for all. we give people a state pension, for example, whether they have been in the labour market or not. it's a civil right you earn by living in the country. if we are to give a state pension to everyone who settles in our country, it will be quickly abolished. if a danish married couple can take their pension and pension income tax-free to a tax haven, it will be so expensive for society that it will exceed the amount of pension and pension. the eu needs to take greater account of the specific danish social model with its high taxes and correspondingly high social benefits. we need practical rules so that citizens can take their pensions with them if they move to another country, but the expatriates should not have the allowance paid by all other taxpayers. the june movement calls on the council and the commission to respect our tax-funded social rights.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, we have come to know chancellor merkel as a charming, efficient, diplomatic and convincing version of bismarck. chancellor merkel, you united europe under german leadership, letting it look as though poland was the problem. the polish twins helped you by mentioning the war. many germans were also the victims of nazi germany. the argument is not valid. but from 2017, it is you who can govern the eu with turkey. poland did not gain or lose. the losers are the 21 small and medium-sized countries. my country’s strength has been halved. you doubled german influence, why blame poland for that? will you always accept one citizen, one vote? will you accept this principle in the united nations with india and china? would you give india and china 15 votes for one german vote? the polish proposal is not polish at all. it was presented by sweden, and invented by a british mathematician. is it not also used in the german bundesrat? in nice, poland got 27 votes because chirac would not allow germany to have more votes than france. poland is now offering to reduce its share from 27 to 6, allowing you to have 9 votes instead of 29. shame on those 21 governments that criticised poland for arguing their interests, plus the general interest, in an understandable system. nice is difficult; the merkel deal is impossible. if you succeed in ratification, your name will be forever linked to an eu which cannot be understood by the public. who can remember figures of populations changing every year? who can count if a law is passed without having a computer? a double majority sounds easy but it is very difficult to use. the penrose system is much easier and fairer. it could be further simplified by giving germany six votes, france, the uk and italy five, poland four, then we would only have 81 votes together, and most of us could remember all the figures in our heads. just like you can in the german bundesrat! a more just system would be to give all member states one vote each, and require the support of 75% of the member states in the council plus a simple majority in the european parliament. the american senate does not take votes according to the size of the state. why here, and why make it look as though poland is a thief? the new system is also as bad for german voters. it moves the legislative function into executive and judging powers. we go backwards in history from montesquieu to merkel and machiavelli. it adds to the democratic deficit. (applause from the ind/dem group) the core in democracy is the ability to hold elections, have a new majority and then new laws. this core will now be further eroded. the constitution will have another name but the same content, therefore it should also be subject to referendums. six proponents and four opponents of the constitution have sent an open letter to you calling for referendums. 77% of all europeans want a referendum; only 20% are against – and we know all of them, they are ministers! listen to your own german citizens who want to be heard by referendum. sign the petition for a referendum in all eu member states at the xo9.eu website. liebe frau bundeskanzlerin! als nordschleswiger schätze ich sie für andere sachen, und für den einsatz bei der klimadebatte danke ich ihnen sehr!
for the pse group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i thank rapporteur jacek protasiewicz for his excellent cooperation in the preparation of this report. if the eu is to meet the challenges of the 21st century and create sustainable growth with more and better jobs, we need to improve the quality of work as well as the quality of jobs. the employment law plays a crucial role here. in the increasing globalisation and competition, we will lose if we compete on bad working conditions and bad wages. social security is a productive factor. high security promotes flexibility, employment and competitiveness. it is the future of labour law that must reflect this, and i reject any attempt to undermine the social and economic security for which workers have had to fight so hard over the centuries. we have seen a clear increase in the use of atypical employment contracts in recent years, but unfortunately the increased use of atypical employment contracts also shows companies wanting to circumvent labour law and their social obligations. unfortunately, there are still far too many workers who are not offered such contracts of their own free will and who do not enjoy protection and security. they are often forced into unpaid and unpensioned employment during illness or childbirth. there are also still many workers who work without basic social rights. the ilo has on several occasions demonstrated the link between lower safety and health at work and short-term contracts. but that said, we also believe that the standard full-time contract should be the norm. the indefinite contract is good for both workers and companies. it provides security, safety and increased development opportunities. flexibility and social security are not opposites but rather preconditions of each other. the future of labour law must reflect this. flexibility is, in short, building good cooperation and mutual trust in companies. this means that the contract system and social dialogue play a major role in the development of flexicurity. the socialist group rejects the commission's narrow focus on individual labour law. the best balance between flexibility and security is achieved in many countries by the conclusion of collective agreements which are constantly adapted to the changing needs of both workers and firms. the commission must therefore promote social dialogue at both national and european level.
the alde group is not in favour of this. madam president, commissioner, i would like to support on behalf of my group the approach adopted by the commission in connection with this directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, we have to admit that in an enlarged union with large income disparities, there is a lot of uncertainty and insecurity about this issue. it is the fear that workers posted to another member state work under less favourable social conditions than those normally found in the host country and thus pose a threat to social security. and on the other hand, we still see many bureaucratic obstacles to the free movement of services in the eu. it is a hindrance to competition and a detriment to the service to the citizens. and that is precisely the balance that the secondment directive is intended to ensure. the freedom to provide services across borders and the respect of labour protection in the host country. in the past, during hearings in the employment committee, we have been told by representatives of employers and trade unions that the posting of workers directive is indeed good enough, but it is very complicated. this is why employers and employees do not know their duties and rights well enough. and we're going to do something about that. it must be easy and simple to do things in the legal way, and it must be done by information, well, understandable information, in one's own language and with easy access to help in solving problems. the commission has noted that member states do not always trust the information exchanged between them, and i think it is a good idea that the continuing cooperation between member states in this area should now be strengthened. the dublin agency for living conditions should also take on the task of exchanging good practice and thus involving both the social partners and the member states in a positive process. i also think it is important that we maintain the right balance on the host country's requirement for a representative, as mr jan andersson mentioned, and on documentation at the workplace, and i think that is basically what the commission has found. that is the background to our amendments to the report. the representative need not be physically present in the host country. we agree on that, and i would like to make that clear. as regards the reference to the laval or waxholm cases, i think we should wait for the final decision before using this case as a guide to the state of the law. and those were the remarks i had.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to emphasize two points, one concerning the baltic sea and the other concerning the development of the eu's ports. nowhere is the need for better interaction between the eu, national governments and regional and local authorities more evident than in the baltic sea. we need a better coordinated strategy to save the environment, to save fisheries and to achieve a sustainable and efficient development of maritime transport in good cooperation with the land-based sport. the baltic sea is one of the most polluted seas in the world and the commission should therefore develop a proper eu strategy for the baltic sea region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the water supply in the community. the new eu strategy should therefore include a port strategy that allows ports to develop in line with market developments and demand. we must ensure that other eu legislation and its interpretation do not impede the development of ports.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to ask you a question. i would like to begin by thanking mrs barsi-pataky for a well-written report with very clear messages. i would also like to thank the commission and commissioner barrot for an evaluation of the white paper with its very good new thinking on eu transport policy. the white paper is the framework for good and far-reaching transport decisions in these years. the evaluation can contribute to better decision-making. the eu leaders have decided that efficient transport should be part of the lisbon process, which is to make the eu the most competitive knowledge-based economy by 2010, and that sounds good. this shows that there is a growing understanding that efficient transport is essential for economic development. at the same time, the commission's focus on coordinated mobility and the interaction of modes of transport reflects a more realistic understanding of what drives transport demand. how to get there most efficiently, safely, comfortably and cheaply. we must develop every single mode of transport in an environmentally sound way and we must develop the interaction between modes of transport so that both efficiency and the environment are taken into account. this policy requires investment, and here one can have some doubts as to whether the eu leaders will live up to the fine words of increased transport. we shall see what happens in a short time when we hear about the tenders for the transeuropean networks. i am afraid that not enough money has been allocated to the transeuropean networks for 2007 to 2013 and we must demand that more money for transport investments be on the agenda for the mid-term review of the budgetary framework in 2009.
in writing. the report urgently approves the convening of an intergovernmental conference to work in secret during the summer holidays, to avoid publicity and debate with the electorate. the june movement proposes instead an open and democratically elected convention to draw up a new text to be submitted to a referendum in all eu countries. the brussels summit of 23 june 2007 adopted a text in which the legal obligations of citizens and member states are identical to those of the rejected constitution. the word 'constitution' is being thrown out of the window - but is being legally reinstated by an explicit recognition of the court of justice's judgment on the eu's legal system as a constitutional system. flags, anthems and national days are no longer mentioned, but continue unchanged. the foreign minister will have a new title so long that the press will call him foreign minister. his competence is unchanged. the only real change is the postponement of the double majority for 7 to 10 years, which gives much more power to the largest countries, especially germany and - perhaps - turkey. the legal obligations are unchanged and, as a minimum, a referendum should be held in the countries which had decided to do so. the easiest way is to hold a referendum on the same day in all eu countries. then we know the verdict of the people, and we are here to serve the people. 77% of eu citizens want a referendum, only 20% are against it. the june movement is therefore supporting the petition.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i address the house on behalf of georgios karatzaferis, a greek member from my group. he decided to take care of matters in greece, where 63 citizens have died, 120 villages and small towns have been damaged and millions of trees have been burnt. the gnp loss may be calculated as 2%. it is a disaster, and greece needs all possible support from the other member states and the european institutions. it seems that eu funds that had been foreseen for the prevention of such disasters have not been used in the proper way. i therefore ask the commission to establish a full investigation into what happened to the community funds set aside for mapping land and preventing fires. who is guilty? who are those responsible? the families of the 63 greek citizens who died need an answer; so do we, because we represent taxpayers.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the legislation to which companies are subject is of great importance for their competitiveness, sustainable growth and employment performance in terms of creating more and better jobs. as i have also said in the employment committee, we of course support the practice of hiding out unnecessary legislation, but we must make sure that the legislation we remove is in fact unnecessary too. from my seat on the employment committee the answer will depend on whether the quality of jobs in europe deteriorates or improves. i am in favour of better regulation only if the intention is to make legislation more transparent and flexible, not if it actually means deregulation. the essential thing is that this be done without compromising the safety and health of workers. the proposed 25% reduction target is questionable, however, as it is a random figure. if this is unnecessary legislation, we should not stop at 25%. overall, however, i fully agree with the purpose of the exercise and i recognise that the unnecessary administrative burden on the eu undermines the effectiveness and credibility of eu legislation. i would like to call on the commission to increase the use of social dialogue as well. it is an important tool in the goal of better regulation.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i thank the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights and the rapporteur for a good report on the word 'soft law' - fortunately, the word does not exist in danish. i am rapporteur on the same subject in the eea parliament and we fully agree with the conclusions of mr medina ortega. in 2005, the commission's internal market experts issued a recommendation on the copyright of composers and authors. it coordinated with the directorate-general for competition in cases against the rights agencies. the danish koda is still threatened with a fine of 10% of turnover since 1973. i call on the president of the commission, josé manuel barroso, to intervene and defend cultural diversity. the recommendation and the competition case together act as a hard law and as an expropriation, and this is a breach of eu law because that effect can only be legally created by a law. an unelected executive authority shall not legislate and expropriate through recommendations and competition cases. instead, come up with a proposal for a directive on artists' copyright and rights agencies. that is what we asked for in the lévai report. we, the elected representatives, represent music buyers, artists, radio and television and many small and medium-sized businesses. they make a living by offering a wide range of cultural activities. we reject administrative legislation in favour of a handful of multinationals. the commission should always consult the elected representatives before issuing such recommendations.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr toubon on the very fine work he has done. i think we have reached a very reasonable result, and we can be very pleased with it. i also thank you for the good cooperation with my shadow colleagues from the other parties, including, and not least, mr harbour of the ppe-de. we now have a report which, in my view, contains a number of good liberal proposals. i would like to stress first of all the liberalization of the postal market, which i consider to be extremely necessary and important. increased competition in the energy market and general improvements in competition policy. proposals to safeguard and improve the internal market four fundamental rights. and the objective is clear: we want a single market without barriers. we still need to improve the internal market and better equip europe for globalisation, to make europe's economy even better and, not least, to ensure consumers more choice, lower prices and higher quality. that is the essence of the internal market. fortunately, we are visionaries in this report, and those visions must be listened to. the report is a boost for the commission, a contribution to the lisbon strategy, a call for europe to get up to speed if we want to be involved at the highest level and compete with, not least, china and the united states. if the commission therefore wants europe to be well and wants to do everything for the good of the citizens of europe and of european businesses, then you, commissioner mccreevy, will take this report into the commission's work and follow the path set by parliament. i am convinced that the single market will then flourish even more to the benefit of our companies, both small and large, and also of us citizens. an accessible single market will create more jobs and growth, which is a necessary prerequisite for us to be able to finance our welfare society in europe. the european citizens are the real winners. but it is not only the commission which must read this report. mr sarkozy and mrs merkel should also study the report very, very carefully. while we welcome a barrier-free internal market, we cannot and should not accept that the two big countries continue to impede, indeed undermine, a free energy market.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament - poul nyrup rasmussen, britta thomsen, christel schaldemose, dan jørgensen and ole christensen - voted against paragraph 18, which deals with the commission's review of the consumer acquis. the delegation believes that minimum harmonisation is necessary as long as the level of consumer protection in the eu member states is so different. the delegation also disagrees with paragraph 26, which states that the current vat and excise systems are an obstacle to the completion of the internal market. the delegation considers that the wording is contrary to the danish system of excise duties. the delegation would, however, like to emphasize its support for a better implementation of the internal market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu's transport policy is on the wrong track. the key problems - climate change, traffic congestion and accidents - are largely ignored. it is as if we have become accustomed to traffic jams and accidents, but climate change cannot simply be adapted once it has happened. we have to act now. nevertheless, traditional thinking always wins, including in this otherwise excellent report, which includes the absurd proposal to allow the use of the mega-train. what happens if we allow these giant trucks to go up to 60 tons? will we have fewer trucks? of course i didn't. the benefits of a larger truck will be eaten up by the increasing volume of transport. it is a natural necessity - it is what comes out of cheaper transport. our roads will be filled with these mobile warehouses, and neither so-called intelligent traffic control nor other fixed faxes will help. they will be little patches on a giant wound which will only get bigger and bigger with the present transport policy. my friends, vote against the mega-trucks in paragraph 21! we must not allow this kind of train of wagons in europe. we must not make it cheaper to transport goods by road. as has been said before, this will undermine the competitiveness of sea and rail transport. and it is precisely these modes of transport that must be strengthened if we are ever to have sustainable freight transport in europe.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament - poul nyrup rasmussen, britta thomsen, christel schaldemose, dan jørgensen and ole christensen - voted against both the commission proposal and the parliament's amendments. the delegation considers that reform of the school milk scheme is necessary but that the proposal does not go far enough. the delegation believes that the aid for the fat milk should be abolished altogether, while the healthy milk should receive the most support. the delegation would, however, like to underline its support for reforms of eu agricultural aid towards a more market-oriented approach, and the eu's agricultural policy should be linked to, inter alia, environmental policy and public health initiatives.
in writing. the june movement supports the use of warning labels on alcohol. when these proposals come back to parliament, we will work for minimum rules on labelling so that member states can legislate according to the precautionary principle.
mr president, this financial crisis is a wake-up call for all of us and also for commissioner mccreevy. only a few months ago mr mccreevy assured us that the talk about financial risks and crises was theoretical and we would never run into new bubbles. now we have just been confronted with one, which has serious consequences, according to today’s financial times, the oecd and other qualified institutions. i have four questions for mr mccreevy. firstly, if we look at the derivatives – credit derivatives, credit market – you blame the agencies and say that they are not good enough; i say that we do not know anything about what is going on. are you ready now to propose a public classification of the complex derivatives in such a way that the public and private agencies can give us guidance on the risk connected to them? because that is impossible today. my second question is about the conflict of interest. if we take the prime brokers, the hedge funds and private equity funds, we see that they are mixed up in a complex set of interests: they earn income from each other, they trade with each other and we do not know what is going on. are you ready now to introduce rules of transparency, disclosure and accountability which give us a real chance of regulating the market? my third question concerns pension funds. we know that wage-earners and workers are having losses connected to putting money into hedge-fund speculating in this derivative market. are you ready to introduce rules which can protect the pension funds and insurance companies trying to administer wage-earners’ money in the future so that they have an interest in saving and knowing that the losses are limited? my final question is: how can you defend the fact that the hedge funds, private equity and investment banks are the last resort on the international and financial markets without any regulations? we have the usage to regulate the banks and the mutual funds, why should they – hedge funds, private equity, investment banks – be the last resort? i cannot explain it, you cannot explain it. it is time to put the common interests at the front, and that is why we need regulation. (applause)
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would like to begin by congratulating mrs valenciano on a well-balanced report and thanking her for her willingness to incorporate many of the amendments we tabled in committee. the result is a clear and thorough report, which contains a number of good recommendations to strengthen the eu's human rights dialogues with third countries and to promote human rights and democracy. the eu must strengthen its role as a proactive actor in promoting human rights. i therefore welcome the council's initiative to integrate human rights into eu policies. it is a good thing that we in the european parliament are calling for the systematic inclusion of human rights issues on the agenda of the eu's political dialogues and in the eu's foreign policy. only by systematising the dialogues can we improve the use of benchmarks and create coherence in the promotion of human rights. however, the eu should not set such high standards that the dialogue is drowned in reporting requirements on indicators and thus forgets to pursue the real objectives. the dialogue must be used to open a trust-building and engaging political space that continuously identifies not only violations but also progress in human rights. we must recognize that the human rights dialogues face major challenges. the human rights situation in a number of countries is worrying. it is essential for the eu's relations with key trading partners that we attach increased importance to linking trade relations to human rights reforms. trade agreements with third countries should be seen as a tool with implications that go beyond the purely economic. human rights and environmental issues must be considered from the outset and on an equal footing with economic issues. the dialogue with third countries must help to strengthen democratic, social, political and environmental rights, and it must therefore also be clear that trade agreements must contain an unequivocal mechanism for how and when agreements can be suspended if a trading partner does not respect human rights and democratic clauses. however, there can be no doubt that we will go farther by giving third countries an incentive to comply with the political and economic requirements of agreements. we must find a balance in bilateral dialogues where we can continue to exert pressure, but where reciprocity and genuine dialogue are a cornerstone.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mrs patrie very much for the great work she has put into this and also thank the commission. the green paper is a very good tool for identifying problems in consumer law and finding solutions to them. one of the solutions proposed by mrs patrie is a combined approach to consumer legislation with total harmonisation of the cross-cutting definitions and minimum harmonisation at sectoral level. i understand this approach and i support it. but in my view we also need to ensure that the harmonization of consumer legislation does not lead to a deterioration in the level of protection for any consumer at all. that is why i put forward a proposal when we were discussing the matter in imco, a proposal for a so-called consumer protection guarantee. unfortunately, the proposal was voted down in committee, but now the socialist group has put it back on the table so that we can vote on it in the plenary. the point of this proposal is that we must give all european consumers a guarantee or assurance that the rights they have already acquired will not be jeopardized even by total harmonization of legislation. i think this is crucial for consumer confidence in the eu and for the understanding that we are making common eu rules - common rules are needed in a number of areas, for example as internet trade grows and develops in scale. in some member states, in fact, it is a widespread belief among citizens that their country has the highest level of consumer protection. this is also the view we have in denmark, and that is why we are actually afraid of any action taken by the european union in the field of consumer legislation. they're simply afraid that standards will fall. i am absolutely convinced that if we introduce a guarantee of consumer protection, that is to say a guarantee that no one will be put in a worse position in the future than they are today, we can actually remove the fear and create an understanding that it also makes sense to legislate together. it just needs to be at the highest level, not the lowest. so i would strongly urge everyone to vote for our motion no 4 when we vote later today.
the commission is not i am not sure that this is the case. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to be able to do that. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the committee for their good and constructive cooperation on the report. i am glad that we are putting renewable energy high on the agenda today, because renewable energy is a very central cornerstone for europe when we have to make it plausible to the rest of the world that we can actually fight climate change and secure the energy supply for our citizens. i see my report as an opportunity for parliament to influence the formulation of future renewable energy legislation and at the same time to make the heads of government and the commission aware that the ambitious objectives they have adopted require a great deal of real effort if they are not to end up as empty promises. first of all, i would like to stress that a key message of my report is that we must create the right framework for the development of renewable energy. this means that we must rethink all our energy policy. renewable energy cannot be considered separately from the other energy objectives, namely the implementation of an internal market in electricity, the realisation of an energy efficiency potential of 20% and the revision of the co2 emissions trading system. all these objectives are interrelated, and therefore the first thing we need to do is to create the right legislative framework. we must force the member states to implement the laws and decisions already adopted and we must ensure a long-term perspective which encourages investors to engage in this massive undertaking. these are the conditions that must be in place if we are to achieve our policy objectives of increasing security of supply, reducing co2 emissions and creating new jobs in europe. but at the same time we must develop an energy policy based on solidarity with the developing countries, where more than a million people lack access to energy. the energy sector should no longer be seen as a mere technical measure in our daily lives, but more as a player in solving the problems of the environment, climate and security of supply. i have pointed out that the eu's structural and cohesion funds are an obvious example of the need to make coherent policies. these funds allow for investments in renewable energy, energy savings and other climate-friendly measures. however, the member states' spending plans show that the new member states would rather spend the money on building motorways than investing in renewable energy. only one percent of the funds are allocated to renewable energy and energy savings. i would therefore urge the commission to revise the guidelines so that support for green energy projects in the eu is systematically ensured, so that there is a coherence between what we adopt with one hand and how we allocate the funds with the other. i have stressed in the report the importance of including energy efficiency in the national action plans. several have pointed out to me that their separate action plans for energy efficiency have no place in this report. but i think it is essential that we achieve this link because otherwise it is a purely sisyphus task if we are constantly increasing our energy consumption and at the same time have to reach a relative target of 20% renewable energy. the two must be considered together. we must always keep the perspective that investment in renewable energy is a benefit for europe. promoting a market for renewable energy will contribute to the achievement of the lisbon objectives by increasing employment in the member states and by increasing the efforts of the member states and the union in research and innovation. the last issue i would like to highlight today is, of course, the question of biofuels and renewable energy in the transport sector. i would like to call on parliament to really go ahead and adopt a comprehensive approach to the transport sector which also ensures political objectives to develop public transport and to move from road to rail and sea transport. although i generally support the idea that the transport sector must also bear its share of renewable energy, i think there are a couple of pitfalls that we have to be aware of. firstly, the introduction of biofuels must not lead us to relax the requirements for energy-efficient cars. we cannot accept that the message be sent to the car industry to invest in biofuels instead of investing in more efficient cars. secondly, we must demand sustainability criteria which ensure a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and that increased demand for biomass can be combined with the preservation of biodiversity. moreover, the introduction of biofuels must not lead to significant increases in food prices. last but not least, we must stress that biofuels are not the only way to use renewable energy in the transport sector. electric cars are expected to play a more important role. i hope that we will have a good debate today and that parliament as a whole can send a signal to the commission and the member states about the importance of achieving the eu's renewable energy objectives.
the alde group is not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the alde group has always given its full support to the european transport strategy, which aims to strengthen rail transport, whether for passenger or freight transport. the best way to do this is through liberalization and more open competition, which means that railway companies will take a greater interest in the wishes of their customers. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of rail transport, including the introduction of a european railway safety certificate. the road taxes must, of course, be seen in that light. this year the first railway package came into force with the liberalisation of freight transport, and tonight we are negotiating in agreement the third railway package, which further liberalises but is much less ambitious than we in the alde group wanted. in return, we have succeeded in securing the rights of passengers and we have also succeeded in reaching an agreement on the joint training of train drivers, which is of course a very important element in creating more efficient cross-border train operations. as rapporteur of my group on the directive on the certification of railway staff, i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr savary, for the results we have achieved. my group has attached particular importance to finding a fair solution to the financing. we are therefore pleased that the cost of training should be reimbursed if the driver changes jobs shortly after the training. it is an expensive training and we must not create a system where some railway companies can run free and systematically avoid contributing to their fair share of the training costs by recruiting new graduates from other companies. as regards the staff to be covered, we are satisfied that it is the train drivers who are covered in the first instance, while the question of involving other staff involved in safety will be re-evaluated in 30 months. it has been difficult to reach agreement on which rail transport should be covered by the passenger rights. in parliament we insisted that national passenger transport should also be covered, and not just the 5% of passenger transport that crosses borders. we have succeeded in doing so and we have found a formula which guarantees the basic rights of passengers. this is important! however, i still find it difficult to understand that passenger rights cannot be extended to all train operations. in fact, the work on this legislation and the parliament's proposal on passenger rights has been inspired by the fact that the railway companies in my country, in denmark, have voluntarily implemented rules on compensation to passengers. this means that commuters are now entitled to compensation when they are delayed, as happens from time to time. we must ensure that commuters are given good conditions and that they see rail transport as a good and attractive alternative to other forms of transport which require more energy. it has been clearly felt during the negotiations that changing the framework for railway companies in the eu is a matter of strong emotions. on the one hand, everyone wants more rail transport. on the other hand, there is a great fear that national companies will not be able to compete. and in the railway companies, and in the trade unions, too, there is not always the same enthusiasm for change. however, we also find railway companies that are taking up the challenge, modernizing and creating new forms of organization that ensure efficient door-to-door transport using several modes of transport. and that's the future. we politicians must set up a framework to ensure that those who want to provide competitive, efficient and modern transport have access to supply. i have full sympathy for those who are fighting to preserve their old privileges, but that is simply not the agenda we as politicians should pursue. we must ensure attractive, efficient and safe rail transport. i think that the result we have achieved is progress and i would like to thank all three rapporteurs for their efforts and i would also like to thank commissioner barrot for having been a midwife for a step on the road to further efficiency in european rail transport.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to say to the two commissioners that i share their view that we have a problem with market surveillance. that is the weak link in the single market today. the member states' efforts in market surveillance are simply not good enough. in my own country, denmark, for example, the funds allocated to general product safety monitoring have been cut. i would urge you to use all the means at your disposal to press the member states to do more in the field of market surveillance. it is absolutely vital that we secure and strengthen it. however, market surveillance alone is not enough. we also need better rules, and that is something we are working on at the moment, including the single market package and then the toy directive. we need minimum rules for market surveillance. we need tougher requirements for producers and importers and we need to have consequences for non-compliance with the rules in the market. but we are working on it and we hope to get it done soon.
rapporteur. – mr president, i just want to say that i hope everyone will vote in favour of the resolution as it is very important that we stand together on this issue in the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the core of the problems we are dealing with here is the demographic imbalance in the world. turning illegal immigration into legal immigration does not solve any problems, and the eu's need to manage immigration according to a uniform set of rules does not solve any problems at all. only development aid and democracy help. the eu countries are so different that it is impossible to manage the same rules. in denmark, more than half of the immigrants from non-western countries are not available for the labour market, and those who are on the labour market have high unemployment. it is because a country with high minimum wages and high social benefits - so high that few in this parliament can imagine it - simply cannot bring people without qualifications into the labour market, regardless of their national origin and regardless of the enormous financial support. the opposition in all member states to increased immigration from foreign cultures should make the european parliament listen more to its electors.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. we have adopted a directive on services, leaving it to the court of justice in luxembourg to decide what we have decided! we do not yet know whether the agreements of the member states must be respected. we do not know to what extent it is legal to set national quality standards. we do not know whether it is legal for member states to decide what services they want in the private and public sectors. the report is therefore as vague as the legal situation. we are waiting for the judges from luxembourg to decide whether we can keep our hospitals and a whole range of other core services which together make up our welfare state. in denmark we have social rights for all citizens, which we finance with high taxes, which only 7% of danes would reduce. and the 7% will probably be served by the judges in luxembourg, but what about the majority? who protects the decisions and our people's government? we also have a flexicurity system based on voluntary agreements between the social partners. how can they be protected? it is the nerve of the danish social model that is threatened by the vagueness and judicial activism of the services directive. the june movement would very much like to help create clear rules for a common market for all services which are suitable for the market, but we will not prevent the member states from also having a people's government to set limits on what should be decided by voters and what should be decided by money men.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. on friday at 5 p.m. the eu published its draft of the new treaty. this ensured that the media would not cover the case over the weekend. it is very clever press work when the aim is to sneak a treaty through, but it is a calculating piece of crap. during the last strasbourg session the president solemnly promised the conference of presidents that all groups would have access to all the documents of the intergovernmental conference. we still haven't got them. three groups have privileged access to the igc, five groups are excluded. it is discriminatory and contrary to the principle of equality. another calculating piece of crap. the new treaty gives the eu 105 new competences - just like the constitution. it has 62 areas where veto power and popular rule are curtailed, the constitution has 61. the new thing is that 255 pages of amendments are now placed in 2,800 pages of treaties, making the text unreadable to anyone but geeks. again, how calculating of you. the new eu constitution will be 3 000 pages long, compared with the 560 pages of the rejected constitution. that is what came out of sarkozy's so-called mini-treaty. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. another calculating piece of crap. no law can be adopted on the basis of the constitution which cannot also be adopted on the basis of the new treaty. the two texts are identical in terms of legal obligations, the difference being that the name has been changed and the referendum cancelled. another calculating piece of crap. you guys! come out with your plans and present them to the voters. the european parliament has called for a referendum on the eu's future.
i have to say, madam president, the report which parliament is adopting tomorrow will effectively stop the enlargement of the european union to include turkey and other populous countries in europe. germany's influence in the council of ministers is doubled, while small countries' influence is halved. at the same time, some of the larger countries are gaining seats in the parliament. germany retains virtually the compensation for having the same number of votes in the council of ministers as italy, england and france, although they now get full currency for each german in the council of ministers. i do not think that the larger countries will surrender these gains again, and the smaller countries cannot surrender more if the decisions are to be seen as legitimate by the voters. listen to what henrik lax has to say. i appeal to the major countries to calm down. we cannot vote on the council's numbers and on the parliament's numbers at the same time. in the united states, there is equality between the states in the senate. in germany, the saarland, with a population of one million, has three votes in the bundesrat, while the rhineland-palatinate, with a population of 18 million, has six votes. the german system, it's fair! when my country joined the eec, germany had three times as many votes in the council as denmark. now it's 15 times that. before, germany had three and a half times as many seats in parliament as denmark, now it will have eight times as many. it will be too unequal and it will never be understood by our voters. it is destroying the european union, and that is the problem!
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. the visit to the west bank and gaza a few weeks ago was a shock - even to those of us who have been there often. the closure of israel's borders and the numerous blockades make it impossible to build a healthy economy and, in this way, the eu's rules on humanitarian aid cannot be followed. the council and the commission should take immediate action to help the palestinian economy get back on its feet. let me be clear: without such an intervention, a peace conference cannot be a success. it has been said many times that the economy cannot be separated from the political. in other words, the israeli occupation must be ended or we will never have peace. in addition to the economic exhaustion, there is a radicalization of the palestinians at the moment. it is growing among the poor, who are increasingly coming under the israeli blockade. it is also growing among the young. on several occasions, the adults and the elderly warned the palestinians that the young people who are growing up now have never lived with the israelis and that they only know them from the ugly walls, military invasions and teenage soldiers who humiliate their fathers. that's not how you make peace, only hateful enemies. the eu is not trusted either. the democratic choice of the palestinians was ignored and by isolating hamas the eu demonstrated both diplomatic incompetence and, once again, double standards. if all the palestinians are not involved in the negotiations that are under way, we shall not have peace. everyone involved knows that. the hope of peace will be shattered if the israeli government, as it is now being reported, wants to expropriate e1, as chris davies amongst others mentioned. both the united states and the european union have made it clear that this cannot happen. the question which the council and the commission must now answer is what will be done to prevent this expropriation of the palestinians' east jerusalem.
the commission is not i would like to thank the president-in-office. the commissioner and the vice-president, mr barrot, ladies and gentlemen! there is so much pressure on europe's airports today that even the slightest delay at one airport can mean very large delays at other airports. and with the continuing increase in air traffic, airports will face increasing problems, with negative consequences for efficiency, the environment and competitiveness. capacity problems in europe's airports are not just a national problem, they are also a european problem, and that is why i welcome the commission's action plan and 14-point plan as a first step towards improving the capacity of europe's airports. the commission's proposals are not enough, however, and that is why my report proposes that the commission should draw up a real master plan for increased airport capacity in europe by 2009. the member states are ultimately responsible for building and extending airports. the master plan shall be a tool or methodology to ensure that member states coordinate their initiatives to promote and expand airport capacity. it is necessary to look at the problem across national borders. airports have different characteristics, different strengths, but the interaction between airports is important. this applies between airports, but also to the interaction with other modes of transport and the infrastructure around airports. i would like to thank both the commission and the rapporteurs from the other parties, mr el khadraoui, mr jarzembowski, mr lópez white and mrs lichtenberger, for a very good cooperation on this report, and i am glad that parliament can come out with a clear message, with broad support both on the question of capacity and on the question of liberalisation of the groundhandling directive. airports are both loved and hated. they create growth and prosperity, they bind regions together, but they also make noise, they pollute, they take up space. it is therefore important that the problems are dealt with in a way that is appropriate for all parties concerned. firstly, we propose to promote an environmentally friendly expansion of capacity. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and fair competition. that is why i also welcome the commission's initiative to include aviation in the eu emissions trading system. i would stress, however, that it is important that we also get things done on a global scale. secondly, it is important that the commission monitors whether the countries have implemented the common rules on slot allocation. in the report we also ask the commission to set a timeframe and deadlines for improving cooperation between neighbouring member states in the creation of functional airspace blocks, the so-called fabs. we need to have substantial improvements in this area by 2008 - this is a high priority for parliament. thirdly, it is utopian to imagine that an expansion of airport capacity can take place without the deep involvement and cooperation of regional and local authorities. it is therefore important that we establish a dialogue among the european regions which have an airport on the coordination of capacity expansions. the regions can exchange experience and learn from each other. the environmental impact of the airport on the population living nearby; what is the spatial planning and what does an airport mean in general for the growth and employment of the area and from that may develop a good practice. i hope that the council will support the basic ideas we have in this report, namely that the commission's action plan is not enough, that we must develop guidelines for optimising and developing airport capacity, but that more capacity is also needed and that there is action behind the words. the second part of my report is about ground handling - that is, all the handling around the aircraft and in the airport from refuelling and baggage handling to the check-in procedure. the commission is proposing a revision of the current directive on the provision of groundhandling services, which is a sensitive and difficult subject. i would like to thank the rapporteurs again for the constructive cooperation we have had. we agree that the commission must make an updated analysis of the implementation and the consequences of the current groundhandling directive before we put new liberalisation on the agenda. we need to have a full picture of the consequences for users, passengers, employees, and quality of ground handling and decent working conditions for employees must be ensured in a future directive. we must ensure that there are no quasi-monopoly conditions and that there are clear rules for procurement so that users are involved, and i hope that this report will inspire the commission to go ahead with both the ground handling directive and the 14-point plan.
for the pse group. i am not sure that this is the case. my british colleagues sometimes use the expression 'an apple a day keeps the doctor away'. and that's the way it should be! fruit and vegetables are usually healthy foods, but unfortunately, this is not always the case. in too many cases there are pesticide residues on fruit and vegetables, and this is of course directly detrimental to human health. that is why this is such an important subject for us to deal with. that is why it is so important that we use these substances in a sustainable way so that we can reduce their use in cases where we use too many substances. our nature is damaged, our environment is damaged, our health is damaged, and our groundwater can be damaged. i think that is why the commission deserves criticism, not least because you, mr kyprianou, are known - also in my own country - as a man who is very much concerned with the interests of consumers and who does a lot to protect the environment and health. i do not understand how you can stand here today and defend a commission proposal on zoning which will force european countries to lower their environmental protection. forcing european countries to lower their consumer protection. let me give you just a few examples of what it will mean if we accept the proposal you have put forward: in denmark about 100 pesticides are allowed. we have reduced the use of pesticides by about 50% since the early 1980s. you will probably agree that it is actually a pretty sensible thing to do. if your proposal is implemented, we in denmark will nevertheless be forced to double the number of pesticides. double the pesticide count! it will probably mean that we will have a very difficult time continuing to drink our polluted groundwater as we do today. this is not a purely national issue for me. i speak on behalf of the whole socialist group and fortunately also on behalf of the large majority who voted for a position in the committee on the environment. there are many examples. in each zone, of course, all but one country will be forced to approve pesticides that it has not approved today. let me give you an example of one crop, corn. in britain today, pesticides containing about 15 active ingredients are used for corn. hungary uses 57 active substances and poland 37, but if the commission's proposal is implemented, all countries will have to approve pesticides containing up to 57 active substances. that means that in the uk you have to quadruple the level. it cannot be the task of the eu to force countries to use more pesticides. it will be bad for the environment, it will be bad for health, it will be bad for groundwater! that really can't be the point. i hope you will support what we have proposed in the committee on the environment - also to make life easier for industry. it is in the compromise we have agreed in the committee on the environment: we do not say mutually binding approval of pesticides, but mutually binding approval of data. and we are not just talking about zones, we are talking about data throughout europe. it will make life much easier for industry. at the same time, we are actually giving countries the right to say no if they have climatic conditions that require it. finally, as regards the reduction targets, i would say to mr dimas that it is extremely positive that we are getting rid of the most dangerous substances - substances which cause cancer, substances which affect the development of children, etc. of course, we must get these drugs off the market. they're also completely unnecessary. i also think we should go further and also set a general reduction target for all drugs. of course, this must be something that is decided individually in each country, but if we link it at the same time with the european reduction target of around 20%, i think we are ambitious. i still think, however, that it is at a stage where it can be done. this will mean a great deal for the health and the environment of europe. in relation to the reasoning used by the commission for not introducing these reduction targets, we have introduced a treatment frequency index which takes account of the things you have otherwise highlighted.
i have to say, madam president, tomorrow morning i'm going to the grocery store to buy bottled water. in many lands this is because of the pollution of groundwater. then the water goes into a chemical treatment like a dirty jacket. it gets filled with chlorine and tastes as bad as it is expensive. in denmark, we have a gold mine underground: clean groundwater. we drink it directly as drinking water without first sending the water to the sewage treatment plant. it's healthier than bottled water, it tastes better, and it's much, much cheaper. but it also means we have to be careful and ban the spraying of poison, where the poison can go into the groundwater. denmark therefore bans 13 pesticides, 12 of which have been found in drinking water. we want to continue to do so, and that is why i ask my colleagues to vote in favour of an amendment to allow protection zones. we have already had the proposal adopted in the previous rules, which must now be repeated in order not to be abolished. finally, we received support from a large majority in this parliament and later from the president of the commission, josé manuel barroso. thank you! we have received no help from the danish commissioner for agriculture, who, together with the danish minister for food, who is also from the left, would rather support the farmers' ability to destroy our drinking water. it is sad that the agricultural council still rules the left. it is very short-sighted to go for a little extra grain exchange and pay billions of dollars to clean the groundwater. the treaty stipulates that the polluter pays. i have tabled these amendments and i ask my colleagues to support the requirements of the treaty. no one has the right to poison our common land and drinking water.
i have to say, madam president, so there are some misunderstandings in some of the speeches made by colleagues here today. that is why i am glad to have the floor for the second time. there are three misunderstandings! firstly, when we talk about reduction targets, some colleagues say that it is not possible at all. there are differences between countries, and you cannot just make a common european reduction target. no, you can't! that's not what we do, either. what we are doing is saying that the common european reduction target should be 20%, but that means maybe 30% in some countries and 10% in others. the national reduction targets must be drawn up on the basis of national action plans. so it's a misunderstanding to harbor fear at that point. we also take into account that a gram of one pesticide can sometimes be more dangerous than a whole kilogram of another pesticide. that is why we have just introduced the treatment frequency index as part of this reduction commitment. i would like the commission to say a few words about this too when you have the floor again in a little while, mr dimas! the second misunderstanding concerns the zones. it is believed that if we do not want the zones, it will be almost a mockery of the internal market. no, on the contrary! by abolishing this silly idea of zones and saying that we will still introduce mutual data sharing, we are saying that the whole of the eu is, in a sense, a zone where we share data. but it is clear that we cannot say that there is a mutual recognition of pesticides, precisely because the geographical, climatic and environmental conditions in each country are different. i think that almost everyone in this chamber who has spoken today agrees with this point. and the third fundamental misconception is that this will destroy the competitiveness of agriculture. - i know. in denmark we have reduced the use of pesticides by 50% since the 1980s, without affecting the competitiveness of agriculture. pesticides are expensive to use, so the less you use of them, provided you use them properly, the better for competitiveness.
, member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr reul on his report. it comes as the last report from the european parliament in the follow-up of the energy and climate change package from 10 january. the other two reports, by mr vidal-quadras and ms thomsen, have given the commission valuable input for further formulation of the proposals. the first concerns our preparation of the internal market package, and the second, the continuing work on the directive on renewable energy. i am also very grateful for the timely input mr reul and this house will provide in the area of energy innovation, clean fossil fuel and nuclear energy. on many accounts, the commission is already in line with the calls of parliament and is working on a number of outstanding issues identified in the report. europe needs to achieve the important goal of combating climate change. for that, and also for security of supply, we need low-carbon, highly efficient energy technologies. we also need to use fossil fuels in a more sustainable way. and it will be difficult to achieve our climate change goals without the use of nuclear energy. let me start by addressing the issue of energy innovation. the commission intends to present the european strategic technology plan at the end of november. europe has proven to be successful in setting a regulatory framework in support of low-carbon technologies. targets have been agreed for energy savings and for renewable energy. we are also building a truly internal market. there is no doubt that these are the basis for the third industrial revolution. however, this is far from enough. if we only depend upon imported low-carbon technologies, we will fail our security of supply and competitiveness objectives. the analyses currently under way in the commission show that europe is falling short in the development of low-carbon technologies. in essence, we are not able to convert the high quality, basic research that is done in the eu into world leading technologies. today, we do not focus sufficiently on matching research to business developments, by building pilot and demonstration plants to get up to full commercial scale. for europe to lead the world in innovation for climate change and energy security, it is essential to be more efficient in the management of the resources invested in energy innovation. we therefore need better, joint strategic planning at eu level, as well as more effective implementation of energy technology programmes and measures. furthermore, and as was stated in mr reul’s report, we have to mobilise additional financial and human resources for energy technology research and demonstration. we have already increased the budget for energy in the seventh framework programme by 50% and for the competitiveness and innovation programme by 100%. this could not have been achieved without strong support from the european parliament. member states are also going down this road, and i am convinced that the private sector will do the same, once the framework conditions are right. this applies in particular to industrial-scale demonstration projects and early market deployment, as well as to the fundamental role of small- and medium-sized enterprises. i will now turn to the second part of the report: the challenges associated with conventional sources of energy. we must recognise that these energy sources will play a substantial role in the energy mix for years to come. we share the same view: that we need to make the transition from traditional to sustainable fossil fuels. before the end of the year, the commission will take further steps to address the use of modern technologies in power generation from fossil fuels. in particular, the commission will address the issue of the legal framework for the capture of carbon dioxide and its geological storage. we will table a legislative proposal which aims at establishing the regulatory framework in order to provide legal certainty, and to ensure public confidence in the safety of carbon capture and storage (ccs) deployment. i am also currently preparing a communication to set the political framework in support of ccs. i agree that ccs will require significant research efforts before it can be commercially viable. this is why ccs will be included among the strategic energy technologies in the strategic energy technology plan. this is also why we are singling it out for communication in connection with the legislative proposal. in parallel with continuous research and development efforts, the eu needs to move on demonstration plants. such projects will provide invaluable experience. they will allow us to optimise existing technologies, and to identify and respond to the remaining challenges. the goal is clear: to see several large-scale demonstration plants operational in the eu by 2015, and to bring the technology to the market by 2020. this will not happen unless there is strong commitment from the european private sector and strong, supportive government policies. the commission is ready to lead, but it will be necessary to get the full support of member states and of the european parliament. i will now come to nuclear energy. i am pleased to note that your message regarding nuclear energy is fully in line with our conclusions in the communication on a nuclear illustrative programme, as widely supported by the economic and social committee. i am also glad that the first meeting of the high level group on nuclear safety and waste management took place on 12 october. the group has a mandate to progressively develop common understanding and, eventually, a higher level of nuclear safety. i share the report’s view that an open dialogue on nuclear energy is essential. for this reason, the commission has set up a nuclear forum, on the lines of the other energy forums. the aim of the nuclear forum is to enlarge the debate on nuclear energy, and to involve all the relevant players. on 26-27 november, the first meeting of that forum, also called the bratislava/prague forum, will take place. i trust it will mean more transparency in allowing for consultation with, and between, all stakeholders. i am pleased that the european parliament will also participate. i would like, once again, to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent report. i thank the european parliament for its support and cooperation. we will use this report in our further work, and i definitely look forward to the debate.
the committee on development and cooperation has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. i am sorry, mr president, but this report is not good, and neither has the work process on it. why has itre not listened to the opinions of other committees? i also regret, on behalf of the committee on development, that we have only been asked for an opinion on the commission's coal play. energy efficiency and savings and our main criticism are far too weak. and they are absolutely vital for developing countries. there is a lot of energy to be saved and there are known technologies available, and at least for the developing countries this is far, far more important than ccs. it is also for the islands. and why is oil forgotten altogether? high oil prices are a major burden for developing countries, especially in the transport sector, where oil is dominant. in addition to efficiency improvements, other transport models are needed. but if the developing countries are to develop, renewable energy is essential, and it is grotesque that it is almost not included in the report. the proposal is unusual and the position of the committee on development is not at all clear, and i would therefore urge everyone to put this right tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the lisbon summit ended well, thankfully. a fine preliminary work carried out by the german presidency, which the portuguese have so skillfully completed. i regret to say that national interests have again played a role. that is certainly not in the interests of european cooperation. we must now have the strength to discuss content instead of process, but unfortunately we have seen a sad tendency to prefer process to content. but if we are to talk about process, my clear message is that we do not need referendums to ratify the treaty. referendums are by no means the answer. let the representative democracy work! it's not because i'm afraid of a no - far from it! but because it is completely wrong to separate european union issues from national parliamentary elections. the eu is and must be an integral part of national policy. referendums are used to send gunfire against a sitting government. this avoids other political parties being judged on their eu policy, but all political parties must of course be judged on their eu policy, and this must happen when we go to the polls in national elections. but it does impose two requirements: a requirement for us voters to let european policy be decisive in our choice of national politicians, and a requirement for political parties not to use referendums to avoid responsibility for the european community. this will hopefully ensure that the content, not the process, is given the highest priority.
mr president, i would like to say to the president-in-office of the council: what a wonderful summit. i never doubted that you would make it, but it is one thing not to doubt and another to do it, and you did it. congratulations. i do not know if colleagues know: it is a bit of a landmark in history. on the first day, we got a new treaty of the real world. i know that all the maximalists here do not think it is the most beautiful treaty they have got, but the real world is not the most beautiful world you can get. so what you need is an effective treaty, a treaty of clear values – and you have got it. on the second day, friends, we got a direction – on the first day a treaty, on the second day a direction – which deals with what people would like us to do: the real world. what you said on the second day was that we want a europe leading globalisation to be more human, to be more inclusive and to base it on our social coherent values. what you said was that the lisbon process is not only a process for a few, but the guideline for the external direction of the european union, which says that it is not only about being the world’s strongest economic power, it is also by understanding that the world will only be more cohesive by basing it on a social market economy. that is what i want to underline to you today. i want to thank the presidency, not only for the first day but also for the second day, because the conclusion of the second day was that this european union is not about market societies. it is about social market economies, which means that we are frontrunners in uniting social issues with economic competitiveness. well done, president-in-office – and friend, if i can say that – because that leads me to my third and last message. let us give the portuguese presidency its last summit in december: not only where a portuguese presidency will formally sign the treaty, but also where we confirm the lisbon process in a well-done way. so let us go. let us move. that is what people expect of us.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, i thank the president of parliament for personally chairing this sitting and this debate and for not having it take place at midnight. i'm very pleased. - i'm not going to lie to you. there is no doubt that the negotiations on the 2008 budget will be quite difficult. but in this parliament we stand together and when we vote on thursday i am quite confident that there will be broad support for the strategy chosen by the committee on budgets and the rapporteur, mr virrankoski, for the commission's budget. the alde group supports the excellent proposal by the commission to finance the galileo satellite monitoring system. we are in favour of surplus money from the agricultural schemes being used for this project rather than going back to the member states. it would not be fair to cut research and transport funding to find money for galileo, as the eu finance ministers are proposing. if the member states of the european union can agree that we should have galileo, then they must also provide the money and do so without resorting to other means. as mr virrankoski has already said, we have warned in the past that not enough money was allocated to galileo, so the situation we are in now is a very small surprise. the second major point of contention with the council is the appropriations for foreign policy. we are all very concerned about whether there is now also sufficient money for kosovo and palestine. i would like to thank mr virrankoski for the great work he has done in finding a compromise that has wide support. as regards the agencies, we welcome the increase in funding for the frontex border agency and hope that a solution can be found to enable the european maritime safety agency, emsa, to start up the lrit data centre as soon as possible, which is to be established by the end of 2008. the rapporteur for the other institutions, mr itälä, has had both an easy task and a very difficult one. the difficult task was the budget of parliament, which unfortunately did not manage to bring expenditure down to this year's level plus inflation, but has managed to keep expenditure below the 20% ceiling. the alde group supported the original compromise between the rapporteur and the bureau, and we regret that poor coordination with the leaders of the major groups meant that the compromise had to be rearranged. we should not repeat this pattern again, we can do better. but i'm not going to yell at mr. itälä. he has done a good job and i would also like to thank him for finding a fair solution for the committee of the regions, which was subjected to very severe cuts by the council.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the amendment to give more money to palestine is of course in favour of our group. but we must stress that both the council and the commission should ensure that we do not continue to pour money into a bottomless pit. the way much of the aid is now provided is contrary to the eu's principles of aid, which are to enable the recipient to build a sustainable economy. but that is impossible because israel is strangling the palestinian society and its economy, and not just in gaza. the delegation from the committee on development, which was in the west bank and gaza in september, saw this. the eu's money flows endlessly, without any accountability to israel. we were briefed on a call from washington where one of the white house middle east advisers was asked about the role of the eu. he replied: 'we give the orders, europe pays!' and that's the truth! we pay and pay, and israel is allowed to destroy everything we build. now the commission and the council must make demands on israel. the blockade of gaza must be lifted so that goods and people can move in and out. gaza is a big open-air prison right now. the roadblocks on the west bank must also be removed. it was not just something our delegation said. it was just as clear from the world bank and it was also clear from our own echo. if there is no hope of improvement and no light at the end of the tunnel, we are misusing the taxpayers' money and this must stop now!
member of the commission. mr president, i recall what i think is an old japanese curse: ‘may you live in interesting times’, and i think this is exactly what we are doing now. we have seen, over the last six to eight months, prices for raw materials within the agricultural sector rocketing, as mentioned already by the speakers, but i have to say that this is happening from an historically low level. i think this is an important reminder to all of us. these increases in prices will be reflected on consumer prices but to a lower extent. if i may use the example of bread, a basic commodity – and i will use a german example – if you take the price of bread in a supermarket or in a store in germany, only 4% of the price relates to the price of the cost of the wheat. for the dairy sector, as has been mentioned already, a number of different measures have already been foreseen. milk quotas were increased on 1 april 2006 and 1 april 2007 by 0.5% in 11 member states. on 1 april 2006, eight new member states received this restructuring reserve varying from between 2% and 5% of their national quota level. on 1 april 2008 – next year – another 0.5% will be added to the increase in the quota allocated to 11 member states. in addition, all market support aids have been massively reduced and, at the moment, there are no export refunds and no disposal aid at all – zero for both of them. the market outlook report in the dairy sector will be adopted by the commission later this year and it will provide us with the basis for a further discussion on whether we need to increase again the quota. moreover, i have already had the chance here to signal clearly the expiry of the milk quota system by 31 march 2015, and indicated as well that we needed, for the period from now until 2015, a soft landing for the abolition of the quota system. among the possibilities mentioned is to increase the quota system over the period and we will have the possibility to discuss this during the health check next year. in the cereals sector there are various different reasons for the increase in prices. i shall just say, just to be sure that there are no misunderstandings, it is not biofuels that are causing the steep increase in prices. we use, today, less than 2% of cereal production for ethanol in europe, but the reasons are different: adverse weather conditions in australia, drought in southern europe, floods in the northern part of europe, increasing demand from india and china, and restricted exports out of russia and ukraine. then, of course, there is the snowball effect from the very strong focus on ethanol in the united states and, therefore, a certain influence on the increase of prices in corn. the commission has, as mentioned already, reacted: set-aside is put to zero for the coming production year, for the sowing to take place this autumn and next spring. then whether to continue a zero set-aside will be a discussion to be held during the health check. we expect that the zero set-aside could contribute to somewhere between 10 and 12-15 million tonnes, depending on the climatic conditions. moreover, i will submit to the college of commissioners a proposal to the council to suspend cereal import duties only for the current market year. i think that those initiatives will help us to ease the pressure on the livestock farming and the consumer prices. there are different problems for the pigmeat sector. the pipelines are filled with meat, so there is an imbalance on the input and output in the sector and therefore the management committee decided last thursday to introduce a private storage that i hope will help the problems in the pigmeat sector. there are other possibilities, but i think we should try to find the right balance because, if it is only a question of prolonging the pain, then we gain absolutely nothing. so, i think that we have reacted and i have had the possibility to thank parliament for its quick reaction so that we could send clear signals as soon as possible to the farming sector on the zero set-aside. i would like to come back to the gmo question in my final remarks, as i can see that my time has expired.
the alde group is not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is important that attention be drawn to the very interesting situation we are currently seeing with regard to very significant price increases for some agricultural commodities. at the same time, we know that these price increases in the areas where they have not yet been achieved, namely the pig sector, will lead to a very costly winter in terms of feed prices. we know the background: poor harvests, empty grain stocks, etc. i shall not go into that. i think that the situation we are in at the moment should give rise to further discussion. first of all, we must not be afraid that prices will rise now. for too long, milk has cost less than a liter of coke and less than a liter of water. it is completely unreasonable that we will not accept that food should cost what it should, because there is a long production time and a lot of working hours behind it, not least in the milk sector. it is also clear that there are now opportunities to increase european food production. the market demands it of us. the commission has taken a good initiative in removing the setaside and we still have the possibility of increasing production very rapidly, especially in the milk sector. we should continue the reform of the cap from 2003 with the decoupling of aid and we should seriously discuss further transfers of agricultural aid to rural policy. we now have the opportunity to kick-start a dynamic agricultural production in the eu, and that means that we must give farmers freer options than they have today to take advantage of the high demand that is currently there. of course, we must also take care, as we have traditionally done, of the farmers who live in mountainous areas and in weak regions - that could be enough! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i do not oppose the suggested temporary solution to guarantee the existence of a network for sis 1+ for the period from 13 november to 17 december 2008. however, i cannot support the use of the passerelle in article 67(2), indent 2, of the ec treaty as suggested by mr coelho. that is why i have chosen to vote against the report.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, i will not repeat all the good things that have been said, apart from simply thanking both our ombudsman and margot wallström. i would also like to say something which is important to stress here. i am a relatively new member of the committee on civil complaints, as it should be called in plain english, the committee on civil complaints. i have discovered to my dismay, in my life in society, that in many places it is only the active citizens who monitor the respect of eu law. the institutions do not do this, the member states do not do this. that is to say, if the citizens do not do this, then everything falls apart. citizens are not just victims of individual cases - they are also the active participants in making the eu's very difficult to make transparent system understandable and citizen-friendly. we must also be aware that even if we equip our instruments, namely the ombudsman and the committee on civil complaints, with the right means, it is an endless struggle. there is an attack on swedish openness and access to documents. don't think this is a fight we can win once and for all. we have to keep going and keep going, and we're not going to win this fight at any point. we can only win it by maintaining the very powerful instruments. i would like to emphasize that i am very pleased with mrs sbarbati's report, but i would like to stress the amendments which fortunately have been accepted with great support. firstly, parliament will now be able to take the ombudsman's cases to the court of justice if the institutions do not respect the ombudsman. it is a very important thing that this can be put into practice and not just be something that we go around bragging about all over the world. we have an ombudsman institution, we have a committee on civil complaints, and then it means nothing but words, words, words. that is why this question is of the utmost importance. secondly, there is the european investment bank. the bank is often not quite as beautiful as it should be. it often acts as if it were the henchman of big industries, and it is therefore essential that citizens who would benefit from the bank's activities in countries outside europe have the opportunity to bring cases before the ombudsman. it is quite shocking that they have been rejected on the grounds that they were not citizens of the european union and had nothing to say. they have been treated with condescension and arrogance, and that is why i am very pleased that this report has now emphasized that these citizens naturally have access to the ombudsman with their complaints. finally, i should also like to mention that it is important that we have been told that the ombudsman is also competent in the intergovernmental areas under the third pillar. all in all, this report is indeed making great progress and i very much hope that both the commission and the bodies of this parliament will take this seriously.
in writing. we, the members of the left in the european parliament, voted against amendment no 8, tabled by mr schlyter and mr jens-peter bonde, the ind-dem group. the left supports a reform of travel allowances so that all reasonable and necessary travel costs are reimbursed. however, this has already been decided with the new member state, which will be implemented from 2009. mr. bond's proposal is ill-conceived and in violation of the statute in force.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have voted in favour of parliament's resolution on rising feed and food prices. the delegation considers that the increasing feed and food prices need to be addressed. however, the delegation does not share the view that it is welcome that the eu agriculture ministers recently decided to suspend the 2008 tendering obligations.
for the pse group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i thank mr schmidt for the excellent report and for the good cooperation in its preparation. the role of sport in general and in education in particular is an extremely important subject. commissioner kyprianou said less than a month ago that he considered that the greatest threat to the health of european citizens was precisely obesity. unfortunately, i think he is right, and that is why it is crucial that we focus on the problem and on what we can do to solve it. we have a great responsibility to our children and especially to those who, for social and family reasons, cannot establish good eating and sports habits at home. so focusing on the role of sport in education is important. school can and should play a major role in instilling good habits in children, since they spend a large part of their time in school. as the report points out, it is therefore not necessary to discuss whether sport in education is necessary, but it is important to discuss how we can ensure that sport is more widely used in schools. so it is important that children learn good exercise habits as early as possible. it is obviously for health reasons, but we also know that exercise and sport, as mr schmidt also said, strengthen the social relationships between children and young people and create social integration across ethnicity and social classes. that's why sports are such an important tool. what can we do? we need to ensure that children have access to more exercise than is the case today. sports should not be for the well-off. sports should be a natural part of every child's life. it is also necessary to ensure that sport is not just a competitive sport but something that everyone can participate in, which is why it is important to integrate sport into education. there is therefore a general need for the individual member states to give much greater priority to sport in education than today, including ensuring that the right facilities are in place and that qualified teachers, for example, are available. it is clear that this is the main responsibility of the member states, but we would like to help with this report to focus on the problem and on the possible solutions that exist, and of course also to point out what the eu can do in this context. and there are three things that are needed: we need teachers to have more insight into why there are barriers to children playing sports. there is also a need to improve the link between school sports and leisure sports. and then, as i said, we also have to prioritize resources, time, space facilities. i am very pleased with the report, it is good and it sets out the conditions that must be met for sport to contribute to the health of children. the socialist group therefore wholeheartedly supports the report, but we think it is important that it is only the first step towards the fact that we must have a very large effort to deal with the problem of obesity. we believe that we need to devote more resources and time to this.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, my friends in the new nip party in romania were furious when they learned about the expulsion of thousands of romanians from italy. i understand them fully. i phoned commissioner frattini, who assured me that no romanian would be expelled without having met a judge. there was a derogation, however: when people, after staying for three months, have no money to live on, they can be expelled without a decision from a judge. i agree with this procedure if it is administered in good faith. free movement does not include a right to receive financial support from the state you visit. you should be able to live on your own budget or have a job. criminals may also be expelled if it is decided by a judge, but it is not up to the police to decide who are criminals. for such decisions, we must have independent judges. i hope my friends in the italian government agree with this fundamental principle of the european union.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. today, mr president, there are elections in denmark. i hope that the new folketing will have members who are willing to read the commission's annual programme, the eu's legislative proposals, and to deal with them. the european union is the one that decides our laws, and it is sad to have seen an election campaign in which the wording of the laws is not at all up for debate. instead, in denmark, municipal and regional issues such as food in kindergartens, schools and hospitals have been discussed. the danish input to the eu legislative process is not discussed among elected representatives, democracy is being emptied as a form of government. the commission's annual programme should ideally be sent to all the committees of all the national parliaments, and all the parties should decide what legislation is to be introduced at eu level and what we want to keep to ourselves. the scrutiny of the need for subsidiarity and proportionality in the european language should be carried out in the national parliaments, first around the time of the annual programme and then when the commission submits the various legislative proposals. it can link national parliaments to the eu and give citizens the opportunity to intervene before they receive a decree from brussels, which has also promised to follow the recommendations of the national parliaments, but very few come. the national parliaments are sleeping in their class, and that is sad for us who fight for them, but it is nice to see so many commissioners at once.
in writing. i voted for the liese report in its final form because it was a small step forward compared to the commission's proposal. the report leaves much to be desired in terms of the steps needed to combat climate change and thus demonstrates that the european parliament is not at the forefront of this fight.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not an anti-federalist. i think federalism is a good form of government for germany, canada, switzerland, the united states, but it requires a people, and there is not yet a european people ready for a european people's government. turnout has dropped from 63% when i was first elected to 46% last time. next time we'll probably get below 40%. there are very few and small european media. they live off artificial grants. there are no joint parties with members who have signed up, who pay voluntary dues and who help to draw up electoral programmes. the parties are run by the national parties and financed by the taxpayers. they now want more money and the ability to spend it in national elections. it breaks the principle of equal competition, it is unfair and probably illegal because it is contrary to the principle of equality. the party funds are managed by members of the major parties, my party has lost its funds because it requires an individual signature from one of our members, even though not all members of other parties have signed their membership individually. we are discriminated against, but there is no critical press that raises discrimination cases. i would like to vote for subsidies to european political parties if the voters wanted a european democracy. start by giving elected officials power over the legislative process, take power away from elected officials and lobbyists so that voters can make a difference by showing up on election day and voting for another party. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. today we hardly have voter support for more suckers in the pockets of citizens.
in writing. carbon storage is of great importance for reducing greenhouse gases. so, foraging on the ground, where carbon is burning off, is a huge burden. it is therefore an issue where international action is needed. the june movement therefore supports the eu's approach to soil protection in the member states. it is very positive that the european parliament has agreed to examine the possibility of using the 'polluter pays' principle with article 22 and that land use will be assessed with article 28, because it is of great importance for carbon sequestration. both proposals are the initiative of mr jens-peter bonde.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i have helped to draw up the charter and proposed a very simple solution in both conventions. the eu should become a member of the european convention on human rights. then the institutions will be bound in the same way as the countries. we're going to close a hole. when we make the charter legally binding, we are not closing any loopholes. on the contrary, we are creating a number of gaps in the protection we have as citizens under our national constitutions and under the european human rights convention. the activist interpretation of the luxembourg court will always prevail both in strasbourg and in our own supreme court. the charter is unsuitable as an independent source of law. it's too imprecise. does the right to life begin at birth, or how many months before? does the strike also apply to public employees? freedom of expression for officials is much better under the strasbourg court than under the luxembourg court. and then yesterday we had a school example of potential conflict. the german journalist hans martin tillack was found guilty by the strasbourg court of olaf for criminal offences when he was arrested and 16 cases of documents, computers and telephones were confiscated. luxembourg said it was okay to steal the journalist's sources. strasbourg condemned the theft and arrest because they prioritize freedom of the press. the charter is being presented as a victory for human rights. i might. it's more like a lottery ticket with a safety for the sober. we are running a great risk in respect of well-earned human rights such as freedom of speech and freedom of the press. the draw is decided by judges in luxembourg, outside parliamentary control, and if they are convicted first, then a unanimous amendment of the treaties is needed to rectify the setbacks. it is very impractical and it looks more like a prison sentence of our rights than a freedom charter.
acting president of the council. mr president, i thought you were asking whether i was still going to have a final statement in the debate on the charter, which i had omitted, hence my confusion. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on flexicurity is now a key point on the european agenda, essential for the future of europe's economic and social models. this is a complex debate, which has to do with the ability to manage change and to promote employment and social security reform in a rapidly changing global context that requires responses to the challenges of global competition, technological innovation and population ageing. we need more adaptable markets, but this also means that we must be able to give citizens better conditions, better tools and more security to deal with change in a positive way. that is the challenge ahead of us. the portuguese presidency has sought to contribute actively to the search for integrated and balanced solutions in this area. following the presentation of the commission communication in june, we were given the responsibility to conduct a process to follow up the mandate of the european council and to reach a consensus on the common principles of flexicurity. the commission's communication was of course an excellent starting point for this work, helping us to develop the concept and to deepen the discussion on solutions that can serve as a common platform for the different paths that each member state will have to take. given that the starting points and realities are different, the solutions will also have to be different. to create the conditions for progress in this direction, we are promoting a number of initiatives with the main actors at european level, including a conference on the challenges of flexicurity, which is very much involved at political level, in order to discuss developments in this debate and the prospects for the future. we also looked at the experiences in countries where successful models have been applied and what could be taken from these models for other contexts. the committee on employment and social protection and the committee of the regions also gave their opinions on the debate. we have also sought to encourage the involvement of the social partners in this matter, since we are aware that this new model requires a strong commitment from all those involved, but also requires that the interests of all be taken into account. in this context, the agreement reached with the social partners at the tripartite social summit in lisbon on 18 october gave a major boost to this debate. social dialogue at various levels and the involvement of the social partners are a decisive dimension of the success of any strategy for reforming labour markets. the process must be participatory in order to achieve win-win solutions, and a climate of trust between the social partners and the institutions is needed. we all have to be prepared to accept and take responsibility for change. i would like to emphasize the quality of the debate and the interventions at all stages, both from the technical and academic point of view and from the point of view of the discussion on the political content and the process. as a result of all this work, which i have mentioned to you here, and on which we have always relied, i must say, with the cooperation of the commission, the council is now in a position to endorse a set of common principles on flexicurity which we hope to adopt formally at the meeting on 5 and 6 december. these common principles, which we unanimously endorse, include, inter alia, taking into account the diversity of realities in the member states which will require different paths and solutions, the need to correct the segmentation of the labour market, the different dimensions of flexicurity - labour law, education, training, social protection - the recognition of the relevance of social dialogue in this context, the promotion of social inclusion, non-discrimination, equality and reconciliation between work and family life, as well as the need to defend the compatibility of policies with sound and sustainable public finances. i would like to point out that there is a great deal of agreement with this house on the substance of the matter, and i should like to stress the excellent work that we have been doing and that this house has been doing in this area. once adopted, the common principles should be an essential instrument for the implementation of the new cycle of the lisbon strategy. member states will be invited to take these principles into account in the definition and implementation of their national policies, developing their own mechanisms and pathways according to their specific situation, which will be monitored in the framework of the national reform programmes. the social partners at all levels will also be encouraged to contribute to the definition and implementation of flexicurity measures and to take the common principles as a reference. we believe that it is necessary to invest in the social mobilisation of citizens for this strategy and in this context i would like to stress the paramount importance of the intervention of this parliament. the european parliament, by its political representation and its proximity to the citizen, can make an excellent contribution to a better understanding of the concept of flexicurity. the key principle is that flexibility and security should be seen as mutually supportive and reinforcing rather than opposing elements, and this should be well understood by our citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission's communication on flexicurity has triggered an important and useful debate throughout the union. i thank the rapporteur, mr christensen, and the other members who have taken an active part in the debate on flexicurity. thanks to your efforts and cooperation with other parliamentary committees, the european parliament will be able to adopt a resolution that strongly supports the approach proposed by the commission. in our society, the condition of certainty is change. we must therefore seek new forms of security in a coordinated way: better skills, the ability to find new jobs, modern protection measures adapted to the new labour market. in recent years, for every job lost in industry in europe, four new jobs have been created in other sectors. the most important question is how to gain control over these changes and how to manage them successfully. we also have to ask ourselves the question of the reasons for segregation in the labour market in a number of member states. i very much welcome the report you have presented today. this report recognises that flexicurity can be a strategy for labour market reform. the text also supports the four components of flexicurity formulated by the commission. i can also support the overall proposals on the common principles set out in paragraph 15 of this report. your proposals are going in much the same direction as those put forward by the commission in its communication. i understand your desire to clarify certain issues, such as the fight against uncertainty. however, i believe that the principles must be concise and that they must be seen in the context of the overall communication. i would also like to welcome the agreement of the european social partners on the analysis of labour market problems presented at the recent social tripartite summit in lisbon on 18 october 2007, which also concerns flexicurity, among other things. this agreement suggests that social dialogue can bring concrete results. in fact, you referred to this joint analysis in your motion for a resolution. i would now like to respond to some of the critical views expressed in your report. i know you'd like the discussion on flexicurity to be more balanced. first of all, i would like to remind you that the commission's communication is the result of an intensive dialogue between all the parties concerned and of a thorough consultation with leading experts in the field. i am convinced that the commission's approach is balanced, as the aim is to promote flexibility and certainty at the same time, as already mentioned as two elements that are synergistic rather than contradictory. it is clear that the discussion on flexicurity must not be used to deregulate the labour market. on the contrary, flexibility and mobility must be geared towards higher goals, i.e. better jobs, a better work-life balance, a more efficient economy as a whole. as you know, the council will decide on the common principles of flexicurity in the coming weeks. the national discussions will then continue, addressed to all stakeholders, in order to implement the flexicurity strategy at national level, taking into account the specificities of each country. i count on the various stakeholders to ensure that balanced approaches can be reached in the area of flexicurity. as regards costs, it should be borne in mind that the costs of a flexicurity policy are much lower than the concrete benefits in terms of a more dynamic labour market and reduced unemployment. in many cases, it is not so much a question of increasing financial costs as of using the resources already available more efficiently. i would also like to comment on the paragraph in the report which states that the basis of the social security system should be an indefinite contract. the commission does not intend in any way to reduce the importance of the contract indefinitely. however, i believe that we should introduce more general social security schemes covering both permanent contracts and parttime employment, in short, that these forms of employment also provide adequate social security, that is the intention, not the weakening of permanent contracts. mr president, i believe that, subject to these few remarks, the report is a useful and relevant contribution to the discussion on flexicurity, and i thank the european parliament once again for it.
the commission is not mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. as rapporteur, it is a great pleasure to stand before you today. the negotiations in parliament are over and we can present a balanced report reflecting the views of the whole political spectrum. the whole idea behind these guidelines on flexicurity that we are dealing with is to tackle the challenges that european labour markets are facing. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new approach to flexicurity. while there is no common model for flexicurity, we must also recognise that europe faces a wide range of common challenges in our labour markets that require joint action. the demographic challenges mean that by 2050 there will be one and a half people employed per pensioner. today, the figure is three employed per pensioner. we have about 100 million europeans living in or on the verge of poverty. inequality is all too easily played out both between countries where there is a great difference between, for example, eastern and western europe, but also within countries where we see increasing inequality. 6% of employees in europe can be characterised as 'working poor' and an increasing proportion of europe's employees experience a worse working life with precarious employment and very poor working conditions. short-term contracts and temporary work are on the increase, while the general open employment contract is in short supply. such precarious employment accounts for 12% in europe. in addition, black and illegal work is on the rise. in some countries, illegal work accounts for up to 15% of employment. we must reverse this trend. it is costly for europe and it is often the weak sections of society that are involved in these precarious and unstable employment relationships. education is europe's most important commodity in global competition and it is not given enough attention. 15% of our young people leave the education system early, and this at a time when the labour market places greater demands on knowledge. anyone who does not join the training car will have a hard time in the long run, and that is why we have an obligation to help these people. the challenges for europe are therefore clear. our responsibility is to deliver the bids and the visions on how we will tackle these challenges. i should like to thank the commission for an excellent report. we have had a good discussion on the report along the way, and it has of course been my role to put the pieces together in this house. my view as rapporteur has been that there was a need for more focus on social europe, to ensure that the core labour rights are respected throughout the eu and that we get more and better jobs. increased flexibility in enterprises must not come at the expense of the working conditions of employees. and how do we ensure this? in fact, the report specifically stresses the need for open employment contracts to remain the standard in europe. secondly, we must ensure that the social partners are more closely involved. the key to a flexible and secure labour market is that decisions are not taken against the interests of employees. the involvement of employees is essential and cannot be stressed enough in the implementation of flexicurity strategies. finally, the report touches on what we might call the framework of flexicurity. in other words, the conditions in which countries can implement flexibility and security. flexibility and flexicurity cost money. it is not money that is lost, but rather investments that yield bonuses. for example, if you spend money on upskilling your workforce, it may be a short-term expense, but experience shows that it can pay off. flexicurity, as we know the concept from northern europe, therefore requires a welfare state of a certain calibre and size. in this context, we must be honest and say that the developments we are seeing in some countries, where there is competition on lower and lower taxes, will mean that it will be very difficult to finance the security part of flexicurity. i would like to put an end once and for all to the voices which claim that flexicurity is a neoliberal concept designed to undermine the rights of workers. this is not the case, on the contrary. in conclusion, i hope that through the debate here in the house and in europe we will dispel some of the myths about flexicurity. as rapporteur, with the help of my colleagues, i have contributed to the achievement of balanced guidelines for flexicurity. guidelines for how europe should build our labour market in the future so that it is competitive and social. the commission's strategy also includes answers to the question of how to deal with the uncertainty that exists among the working population in europe. many people today fear that their jobs will be relocated and that their place in the labour market will become redundant. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and rapporteurs from the other committees and all those who have contributed to this report, and i would like to conclude by wishing that the heads of state or government in portugal will take parliament's recommendations into account in the work on the common guidelines for flexicurity in december.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to begin by thanking the court of auditors for a good report and a good presentation here today. it is clear that it is an incredibly useful instrument in our work to ensure that the money of eu citizens is managed well and is managed in a legitimate and responsible way. the overall conclusion of the report is unfortunately not satisfactory. it is clear that when for 13 years in a row you cannot give a positive audit report, that is deeply, deeply critical. unfortunately, this shows that there is no control over the taxpayers' money, and it shows that we in this parliament, in cooperation with the commission, in cooperation with the member states, have a great task ahead of us. we have to make them better. it needs to be done better. we are now in the committee on budgetary control with the annual procedure, i.e. we are hearing the relevant commissioners, we are examining in detail the documents now at our disposal. only when we have completed that process can we say whether we will give discharge, as it is called in the technical language, that is, whether we will approve the accounts for 2006, the implementation of the budgets for 2006. there are some arguments for doing so. there has been progress in some areas, but unfortunately there are also very, very serious criticisms, very serious arguments, that we should not approve the accounts for 2006. let me start with the positives. fortunately, as several colleagues have pointed out, and as both the court of auditors and mr kallas have mentioned in their speeches, things are going very well in the agricultural sector. the so-called integrated financial control system has proved effective. where it is implemented, it is said that the money is well managed. we can look the citizens in the eye and say that their taxpayers' money is being managed in a good and responsible way. in the case of greece, where this system has not been properly implemented, the commission has also, i think, shown itself responsible by saying that it will suspend payments. that's good, and that's positive. there is also reason for optimism in the field of research. it's almost like a school example. we have already raised some criticisms last year, which commissioner potočnik has taken up, and that is of course the way we should be working. this shows very well that we are not here to promote populism, as some members would like. we are not here to go after the anti-eu crowd. we are here to point out the things that are criticizable and to come up with good constructive solutions. that said, there are huge problems with the structural funds. we have not had an explanation for the 12% you mention, mr kallas. it's possible there's an explanation. we hope so, but we haven't got it yet. unfortunately, we also see that when the control systems are described as ineffective in all the cases examined by the court of auditors, this is of course not satisfactory. on foreign policy too, we must say that the billion euros spent in cooperation with other institutions in international trust funds are also not in order. so i would say in conclusion that there must be some very clear answers. there must be some very good explanations if we are to recommend discharge.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be here today for your debate on the second reading of the 2008 budget. i listened carefully to the two opening speeches and i, for my part, would like to thank you in advance for the words of praise that were addressed to our joint work. the budgetary procedure for 2008 was extremely complex, as is customary, and i am very pleased to note your intention to fully respect, in the 2008 budget, the agreement reached between our two institutions at the conciliation meeting of 23 november 2007. this agreement had two different but equally important objectives: on the one hand, to define the framework for establishing the 2008 budget, so as to allow the proper functioning of the european union and the correct implementation of its policies, and on the other hand, to ensure the financing of galileo, one of the most important projects undertaken by the european union in recent years, at political, industrial and financial level. in this context, let me express my great pride in the leadership role that we, the european parliament and the council, together, as the budgetary authority with the support of the commission, have played in the overall agreement reached on the galileo project. on 23 november 2007, we were able to agree on a consistent community budget for such an essential project, thus speeding up the approval of all its other legislative and technical aspects. this funding decision was undoubtedly a decisive step in getting the galileo project up and running towards its final orbit. i would also like to express the council's satisfaction with the agreement we have reached on the budget for the common foreign and security policy for 2008, which is a very important political priority for the european union. as regards the 2008 budget as a whole, i believe that this budget represents a balanced compromise between, on the one hand, the need to ensure the necessary budgetary discipline and sound financial management and, on the other hand, our duty to respond to the expectations of the european citizens. i would add that this satisfactory result was only possible thanks to the synergy of the efforts of all those involved and the excellent constructive atmosphere which, in our view, characterized the whole process from the outset. i cannot therefore conclude my speech without taking this opportunity to thank personally the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr reimer böge, for his frankness and spirit of dialogue during the negotiations, and the two rapporteurs, mr virrankoski and mr ville itälä, for their constructive interinstitutional cooperation. i would also like to express my gratitude to my colleagues in the budget council and to all those who have worked with them for their firm support of the presidency. my special thanks go to commissioner dalia gribauskaite, who has played her full role as a neutral mediator, and last but not least, i would also like to thank the staff of the three institutions who participated in this negotiation for their very valuable and professional contribution. thank you all so much.
member of the commission. in addition to all the good wishes, i would like to recall that the european commission, when presenting its preliminary budget for 2008, allocated the largest share of expenditure to investments in economic progress. for the first time in european financial history, the cost of economic competitiveness has become the largest budget segment. it is a new historic quality of the european union budget, reflecting europe's political priorities: competitiveness, economic growth, cohesion, social cohesion. the negotiations on the 2008 budget also included the need to decide on the additional funding of two trans-european important innovation projects, namely the galileo project and the european institute of technology. the 2008 budget was a difficult negotiation indeed. however, the constructive role played by both the european parliament and the council in the negotiation process has led to positive and constructive results. i would like to thank parliament and in particular the rapporteur, mr virrankoski, for having taken account of the explanations given by the european commission on certain reserves and for having withdrawn some of the appropriations from the reserve after the first reading. but i would point out that there are still a number of problems which the commission has brought to the attention of parliament. however, there are still some reservations that will make budget implementation more difficult and complex, and i hope that they can be lifted as soon as possible. two reserves are a specific source of our concern, and i would like to draw the attention of the plenary to them. one reserve reduces by eur 17 million the preparation for staff salaries at headquarters in the policy area of external actions, and that would force the commission to leave posts vacant and to block recruitment from the beginning of january. this means, in fact, that there would be eur 22 million in the combined reserve on staff salaries, and i really hope that parliament will be able to reconsider its position on this in the plenary. as regards the general reserve of eur 5 million for staff salaries, the commission is firmly committed to delivering the required study on the implementation of the abm and the reports requested by parliament on the follow-up or the screening exercise and on the implementation of article 44 of the interinstitutional agreement. however, with regard to the requested action plan on the reorganisation of the coordination and support activities, i want to be very clear on behalf of the commission. the european parliament will be fully informed of all different steps in the follow-up to the screening exercise. on this we can give you the commission's commitment. however, i also want to stress that the commission cannot launch a major reorganisation exercise during the last year of this commission and, therefore, there will be no action plan in this regard. major organisation can only be decided by the next commission. the commission is committed to implementing progressively the results of the ongoing assessment of the number of activities identified in the screening. we are moving on a step-by-step approach. we have started work on the communication activities, the delegation network, the balance and the category structure of the commission's establishment plan. this we promised, and we will deliver. we hope that parliament will take account of our commitments and our capabilities to deliver in this matter and, during the vote on thursday, will reconsider its proposals. in conclusion, i would like to thank the european parliament once again, in particular mr böge, chairman of the committee on budgets, and mr virrankovski, the rapporteur on the budget, and the council, in particular mr santos, for the very good cooperation and constructive role played by the above-mentioned persons. i hope that today's debate will be useful and productive and will lead the european parliament to vote on thursday for the european budget for 2008.
the alde group is not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. on behalf of the alde group, i would also like to stress the fine result of the negotiations that we can celebrate with the adoption of the 2008 budget on thursday. i would like to congratulate kyösti virrankoski of our group on her appointment as rapporteur for the commission's budget. he has succeeded in doing what many thought was impossible in advance, namely to reach an agreement involving a revision of the multiannual financial framework, the financial perspective, without having to have the heads of state on the spot and without having to have a big negotiating drama in late december. the negotiating result we have here provides the billions needed to finance the galileo satellite navigation system without us getting the money from other necessary programmes. it is free agricultural money, it is money from the flexibility instrument, and it is money that would not otherwise be spent that is now being used to ensure that the eu makes the important investment in galileo. the eu thus has full access to basic infrastructure and key competences. it has also succeeded in finding additional money for palestine and kosovo through the use of the flexibility instrument. all in all, we have here a historically good solution. we need a more flexible eu budget, where we can ensure year after year the financing of the necessary needs. it does not necessarily mean an increased budget, but rather a more balanced application of the rules and a focus on current issues. many people have contributed to the good solution. mrs grybauskaitė has governed with authority and wisdom. parliament has stood together and ensured that the commission's wishes were supported. i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr reimer böge, for his strong and competent leadership, the coordinators of the other groups for the good cooperation, mr itälä for the good work he did and the portuguese presidency for working towards a good result. the european union has won and reason has triumphed.
vice-president of the commission. if you allow me, madam president, i would like to start with the second question, and i shall read again what i have said and make a short comment on that. against the background of the diversity of urban situations, the commission does not recommend a specific model of development valid for each city in europe. this is clearly respecting the subsidiarity principle and the principle of diversity and, in other words, in my own words, it means one size does not fit all. it is not a one-size-fits-all approach; it is an approach that takes into account the specificities, the specific needs and interests and capacities of the cities, but everything i think we need – guidance, recommendations and exchange of best practices – is there. as far as the first question is concerned, i would be tempted to give an answer based on my own experience and i could certainly tell you the city in which i would prefer to live, but that is not a political issue. the commission does not have a scoreboard of that type and does not have a ranking of european cities that would totally combine all the elements. unfortunately, i am really not in a position to give you an answer on an objective basis and it would be very unwise to give the answer on a personal basis to the detriment of all the others.
member of the commission. the question raised by the honourable member is very important for consumers, telecom service providers and content providers, and of course also for telecom regulators. it concerns a balance between network providers’ desire to offer differential qualities of service for internet services, in order to optimise the use of its network resources, and the freedom of users to distribute or access any legal on-line content without interference such as blocking or degrading. the commission is committed to keeping the internet open both for service providers wanting to deliver new, innovative services and for consumers wanting to access the services they choose and to create and upload contents themselves. the ongoing debate in the united states on net neutrality is strongly influenced by the lack of regulation in the us to ensure that access is kept open, and, combined with the concentration of network ownership, the lack of access regulation has provoked real concerns among consumers and content providers that there could be foreclosure of the internet. the situation in europe is that we are generally in a good position with regard to net neutrality and net freedoms, because we have effective network regulation in line with eu telecom rules, and european consumers have a greater choice of broadband services providers. the fact that consumers have more choice and there is more competition means that, if one supplier seeks to restrict user rights, then another can enter the market with a more open offer. the current eu regulatory framework has so far ensured that the telecom market remains open, that offers made to consumers are transparent and that competition is effective. i understand the honourable member’s question, because there is a risk that in the future a prioritisation of traffic may increasingly be introduced. in the past, all information, packets and bits of data were treated equally. but today new techniques can differentiate between packets, in order to award priority to high urgency communications or to users who have paid a premium for higher-quality services. these techniques are legitimate in cases where service levels have to be guaranteed in order for the service to be effective. voice-over internet services, for example, need a basic minimum level of connection in order to be satisfactory, especially for emergency or business calls. in addition, prioritisation creates an incentive mechanism for network operators to invest in upgrading bandwidth as demand increases. that is the nice part of the story. the problem is that the same techniques could be utilised to degrade the quality of service to unacceptably low levels. such discrimination might then lead to sub-standard services for consumers and alternative providers. that is why, in the telecom reform package, which was adopted by the commission on 13 november 2007 and presented to parliament that same day, we proposed to give national telecom regulators the power to set minimum quality levels for network transmission services based on technical standards identified at eu level. in addition, there is now a new requirement in the telecom rules to indicate to users in advance any techniques that have been implemented and which could lead to prioritisation. that is what we call the transparency rule. we as a commission believe that this approach strikes a balance that will safeguard competition and user access, without unduly restricting the ability of network providers to experiment with different business models. in addition to this, parliament knows that the commission is closely monitoring developments as regards net freedoms. following the 2006 world summit on the information society, we presented to parliament a communication which clearly stated the commission’s intention to monitor and safeguard the neutrality of the internet. the architectural principles of an open internet and end-to-end connectivity are also explicitly mentioned in the council conclusions from 2005. these issues are under constant analysis, are constantly monitored and are discussed regularly with member states, for instance in the i2010 high level group, and with third countries. this is important, because the internet does not have borders. the commission will promote continuously the need for an open internet and for non-discriminatory access. this is what underpins the philosophy of the regulatory approach under the eu telecom rules, which will be further enhanced by our reform project, to be discussed in parliament in the coming months.
thank you, commissioner. i was very happy with your answer. it was very broad and really showed your interest and your knowledge about this important matter. i believe that you will be closely monitoring the system, as you have promised. i hope that, within a year, you will be able to report back to us to see whether net neutrality has been guaranteed by the transparency clause and by the monitoring system which we have installed. i hope we can come back to this subject within six to twelve months to see if the system is functioning.
i have to say, madam president, we have seen how the liberalisation of old monopolies in europe has created a stimulating competition in business for better products and lower prices for consumers. the market for car spare parts is no exception. for many years, car manufacturers have had a strong monopoly on the spare parts that are an essential part of the design of cars. in practice, we are talking about 20% of all spare parts sold in a very large eu market. the total annual turnover is estimated by the commission at approximately eur 42 billion or dkk 300 billion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission's proposal, which will bring about a welcome liberalization of this market, has at least three major advantages. 1. business will be encouraged to invest in the production of spare parts, which typically require large capital. this incentive does not exist today, where a significant part of the union market is monopolized and therefore closed to after-market non-oem spare parts. the second. consumers will experience falling prices for car spare parts because of increased competition between manufacturers. the third. finally, the full implementation of the repair clause should mean decreasing car insurance premiums. a very substantial part of the spare parts market covered by the design protection arises from damage covered by insurance. i should like to note the comments of mr malcolm harbour on safety in the manufacture of critical parts by all manufacturers. mr lehne deserves great praise for the work he has done on this report, which i fully support.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the prime ministers will sign a final treaty none of them have read. they are signing a bundle of amendments they cannot even understand. yesterday the danish parliament refused a referendum on a treaty they have not read. they breached the danish constitution and may be taken to court so we can have a referendum. a few of them may have read a full draft; i doubt it. the final edition is still impossible to read for one simple reason: it is not consolidated. the igc has decided that readable versions will only be printed when the treaty is ratified by all 27 member states. do not read, sign, is a cynical moral. all negotiations in the igc and the linguistic lawyers’ group have been kept absolutely secret so far as many members in this parliament are concerned. the numbering system has been changed three times to make any comparison technically impossible before the signing. there is not even a table for comparison with the october published edition. first they undo two referendums rejecting the constitution. then they negotiate in secret and keep the content under a new name. i still offer a good bottle of wine for just one example of a law which can be approved under the constitution and not under the lisbon treaty. even the most experienced legal expert in the danish foreign office has admitted there is not one. in an expert hearing in the danish parliament, i asked three times to have some examples of national law areas where the lisbon treaty, with its horizontal clauses and fundamental principles, cannot reach. i did not get one valid example. the lisbon treaty will dissolve the existing eu, establish a new state with joint citizenship, legal personality and all the tools of nation states. most laws will be adopted by civil servants in secret. the democratic deficit will grow. my group proposes the signing should be cancelled until you have read the final text. (applause)
madam president, i was attacked personally by mr schulz; therefore, i think we should go to the vote. i took part in a peaceful manifestation against a celebration of a charter which was part of a constitution where i cannot even get the consolidated text and see the relevance and the meaning, and you cannot either. what you are going to sign tomorrow is a treaty none of you has read it, simply because it is not possible to read it. you take over our voting time to celebrate a victory over democracy, and, therefore, i will not attack my colleagues, but i have to say to mr schulz that i did not take part in a crime. i understand it entirely, but we have a different tradition in denmark, so i was there with my t-shirt, calling for a referendum, and i think all of us should call for a referendum. this is the democratic norm you are defending.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this resolution rightly criticises neo-fascist and fundamentalist movements in some european countries, but on the whole it appears to be unilaterally directed against a problem which is described as european citizens with fascist and racist attitudes, and this makes the resolution meaningless. repeated opinion polls in denmark have shown that immigrants from non-western countries do not feel exposed to any form of racism or hostile treatment. but some immigrants from non-european countries are engaging in widespread violence against danish citizens and other immigrants. in the official crime statistics, immigrants from non-western countries have a huge overlap. in recent months, there has been a weekly spate of open street shootings between immigrant gangs and individual assaults. immigration consultants, who themselves are of a different ethnic origin than danish, have been threatened with death to leave their jobs, not by danes, but by people from the foreign culture they are seeking to help function in denmark. we have a prominent syrian immigrant politician. he must be protected around the clock by the danish police, not against danes, but against fundamentalists of islamic background. our intelligence service is constantly engaged in preventing violent attacks against danes and the institutions of danish society, not from danes, but from foreigners. that is why this decision is absurd from a danish point of view. in denmark, violent racism is directed against democracy and human rights. and in view of that, i could not vote for the resolution.
mr. president, i gave my apologies in writing for the events last wednesday when i became aware that a member of my group had pushed an usher. the ushers behave very calmly and professionally and deserve our respect. a peaceful visible demonstration ran out of control. i am very sorry for that because the lisbon treaty deserves visible protest. prime ministers have cancelled the results of two referendums. if it had been in venezuela every one of us would have protested. now, all the prime ministers applauded their danish colleague when he told the summit how he had cheated the danes on a referendum. the new treaty was negotiated behind the most closed doors i have observed in my 29 years in this parliament. one fourth of the members of this house were excluded from influence and knowledge on the re-mix of the constitution articles into the lisbon treaty. prime ministers signed a treaty none of them had read in its final renumbered edition, and hungary has now ratified something they also have not read. the council was asked to cheat the public by hiding and renumbering and changing the line spacing so a bigger treaty could be presented like a mini-treaty. this behaviour deserves democratic protest.
