ladies and gentlemen, it is with joy and emotion that we welcome the 53 new bulgarian and romanian colleagues today. on behalf of all of us, i would like to extend to you our warmest welcome and wish you every success in your first term as members of the european parliament. it is a pleasure for me to greet the presidents of the national parliaments of romania and bulgaria, who are here with us in the chamber ... (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.) we are now a large group of 785 members from 27 countries, organised around - fear not - 177 political parties. in a few months' time, the citizens of romania and bulgaria will go to the polls to elect their european representatives. i am now offering all the help of our institution to make them fully aware of the importance of their participation in the first european elections to be held in these countries. i have recently been able to see how strong the european enthusiasm of romanians and bulgarians is. i saw him at the official ceremonies held in bucharest on 31 december 2006 and in sofia on 1 january 2007. it was certainly one of the highlights, both personally and politically, of my mandate - i would even say it was a comforting moment in the face of the emerging euroscepticism in other capitals. i have seen how proud romanians and bulgarians are to be european citizens. everything that concerns them affects us today much more than yesterday. the case of the bulgarian nurses sentenced to death in libya is now a european issue. the union must continue to speak out tirelessly in favour of these european citizens, and i take this opportunity today to make a fresh appeal to the libyan government in their favour, not forgetting the palestinian doctor who is also condemned. (applause) my dear colleagues from romania and bulgaria, you bring with you your history, your culture, your faith in europe. they open a new maritime window - the black sea - whose strategic importance we all know at this moment. a large part of our energy resources passes through it. we are in the midst of a debate on energy policy and the position of your two countries will undoubtedly considerably strengthen europe's weight on the international scene. you bring us closer to closer neighbors. i am sure that you, citizens of two countries which share a border with the western balkans, will be a decisive pillar in the european edifice we are building. with romania, there are now four european union countries which share a common border with ukraine, and one with moldova, so the european neighbourhood policy must be strengthened. with bulgaria, we are now two countries which border turkey and i am sure that the bulgarian experience will be extremely useful here too. their countries and their peoples have made a tremendous effort to join the european union, an effort that we may not be fully aware of, but they have made it, and they still have a long way to go. as you know, in november last year the european parliament called on its governments to maintain the pace of reforms without pause. we believe that they can be done better from within than from without, and we will all do their follow-up together. for all of us today begins an intense work of mutual knowledge. the old thrace and dacia, parts of europe when europe was not yet called that, have been reunited in the common family. they've returned to the europe that was always theirs. his return will be as enriching as the one that took place on 1 may 2004. we have great challenges to face, and i'm sure we'll work together to do it. you are welcome. (applause) and now i invite you to listen to the anthem of the european union. (the house will be voting on the request for an early vote)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on monday 18 december 2006. (the sitting was opened at 6.20 p.m.)
before starting the agenda, i should like to remind you, with emotion, that as you know, the terrorist organisation eta has broken the ceasefire it had declared in march last year by carrying out a barbaric attack at madrid airport which has caused the death of two ecuadorian citizens, carlos alonso palate and diego armando estacio, who, as immigrants, had found their place in spanish society and, from there, supported their families, resident in ecuador. with this attack, eta has broken the process initiated by the spanish government, which this house discussed in october last year. i would like to express, on behalf of the european parliament, our sincere condolences and our feelings of solidarity to the relatives and friends of the two people killed and to the whole of spanish and ecuadorian society. i would also like to reiterate here, with all solemnity and firmness, the condemnation i have already expressed following this savage act of terrorism, and i would like to recall and affirm that in democracy dialogue is radically incompatible with violence and that peace, (applause) coexistence in freedom and respect for human rights are non-negotiable. i would also like to reiterate our support for all the spanish democratic institutions in their fight against terrorism and to express the hope of all european democrats that the spanish people will achieve an end to violence throughout spain sooner rather than later. i'm going to ask you to take a moment of silence for carlos alonso palate and diego armando estacio. (the house will be asked to rise and observe a minute's silence)
i would like to inform you that a new political group has been set up in the european parliament, entitled 'identity, tradition and sovereignty'. this group is composed of 20 members, representing more than one fifth of the member states, and therefore fulfils the conditions laid down in the regulation. the composition of this group shall be published in the minutes of this meeting.
mr schulz, mr gollnisch, rule 29 and the footnote clarifying the scope of its provisions state that parliament does not assess the political affinities of the members of a group, and only when any of the members concerned deny sharing the political affinities declared by the group, does parliament have to verify whether the group is formed in accordance with the rules of procedure. i do not think that is the case; the group has made a statement of principles, a political statement which has been communicated to me, which will be published in the official journal and signed by all the members of this group. i understand that at the present time that is sufficient proof of political affinity between its members and i cannot therefore continue with your approach, mr schulz.
ladies and gentlemen, after welcoming our bulgarian and romanian colleagues, allow me a few minutes to assess the work we have done during the first half of this parliamentary term. i think there is a broad consensus on the growing importance and the greater prominence of the european parliament. the european parliament is better known and better recognised for its work. we have overcome the challenge of enlargement and solved important internal problems. we owe it to the work of all of you, the secretary-general, the parliament's administration. i want to thank you all. i would also like to recall the doubts we had, 30 months ago, about our ability to work with more members, with nine more languages then - now there are 12 more languages - and with even more diverse parliamentary cultures. i think we can now see that we have overcome these difficulties and that the enlarged parliament is functioning. there has been no division between old and new europe. meps from the new member states have been perfectly integrated into the various transnational political groups, working at european level and from a european perspective. we have played an important role in cushioning east-west tensions, and this has enabled us to reach important agreements, such as the paradigmatic case of the services directive. the members of the 10 new member states have now taken up the highest political posts in our parliament and there are a large number of rapporteurs among them. i hope that this inclusive participation will continue in the future. you will also remember that at the beginning of the legislature i told you that the statute for members would be a priority. i said that in the face of some scepticism from more experienced members, but today we have a statute which will guarantee, when it is applied, equal treatment between members and transparency of their expenditure. it was a difficult issue which seriously tarnished the image of the european parliament and i think we were all very pleased to have resolved it. in order to be able to function with more members, we have had to carry out important internal reforms. more planning, more selectivity, more political orientation of the debates, more speed in taking a stand on international events and on the decisions and proposals of the commission, more efficiency in our delegations in third countries, more dynamic work in our parliamentary committees. each of them has done their part to find and implement original and effective solutions. i thank everyone, and especially the chairmen of the political groups, the vice-chairmen and the managers who have accompanied me to the table, the committee chairmen, and also - let me say this now - very particularly the secretary-general, mr priestley, who will soon be leaving us. (applause) believe me -- and i say this with the knowledge that the position i have held has given me -- he, julian, and his collaborators are the real architects of that everyday miracle that is the functioning of this complex institution. to make it work, we also had to develop a major real estate policy, which has not ceased to provoke controversy. we have made major investments in works in brussels and luxembourg which my successor will have the pleasure of inaugurating shortly. we have acquired buildings at all three headquarters and in the 27 countries where we have information offices. we are a major real estate powerhouse throughout europe, and i can tell you that this policy will enable us to save 100 million euros a year, compared to what a rent policy would be, and that will enable us to apply the statute for members without having to ask for additional resources from the european taxpayer. i would like to thank the vice-president, mr onesta, and the staff of the general secretariat for their work in this area. (applause) you will also remember that, since july 2004, the question of our relations with the other institutions has been raised. it is now universally recognized that it was during these turbulent times of the commission's inauguration that the european parliament reached its political maturity. why would you do that? simply because he used his powers and exercised his responsibility by rejecting proposals which he considered inadequate. the european parliament has thus demonstrated that hearings of commissioners are not a mere formality, that parliament is not a paper tiger and that it can exercise its powers in a demanding and responsible way without provoking any crisis. i sincerely believe that parliament, the commission itself and the european project have been strengthened by this exercise of parliamentary democracy which we can now regard as normal. after that, our relations with the commission have been courteous, frank and cooperative. i would like to thank the vice-president for this relationship. cooperation is essential between parliament and the commission, because we both represent the general european interest. we are called to cooperate because we both, in one way or another, represent the general interest of europe. but we are also the commission's supervisory body, and that sometimes leads to confrontation. and sometimes the commission has not listened to us, and that is why we have rejected some of its proposals (port services or rail transport). but that should encourage us to work more together on the commission's annual legislative work programme. our relations with the council have also improved, although they have been difficult at times. i would like to refer to the financial perspective to express my regret again that the member states have not come close to the ambitious and realistic position which the european parliament has drawn up through an ad hoc committee which i had the honour of chairing. for the first time, the ep defined its position before it met the council's. and i think we can be satisfied with our part in this task of co-legislating. we have often agreed, except in important cases, such as the directive on the patentability of software, where we reject the council's common position. but it is also widely recognised in europe that this parliament has played a key role in at least three of the main issues of this half-term. as regards the services directive, everyone agrees that parliament has taken the european union out of the difficult situation created by an initial proposal which has been substantially amended. we can say that parliament has de facto exercised a legislative initiative which it does not formally have. but it was not an amendment, it was a radical and profound change from the original proposal. in reach, we have facilitated the final commitment. in the fight against terrorism, we have reached an agreement on data retention, which would have been difficult to achieve without our determined involvement with the british presidency. we have now moved beyond these major legislative issues, and i must warn parliament that there is a risk of a certain 'legislative dryness', that there is a risk that we will not have any proposals to legislate on. we must certainly legislate better - both those who propose legislation and those who amend and approve it, but better regulation cannot be confused with less regulation... (applause)... nor should it be done to the detriment of the rights - especially social and environmental rights - of the community acquis. and also, at this moment of farewell, i must express my fear that the current intergovernmental drift in the functioning of the union may lead to a diminishing role for the european parliament. we'll have to be vigilant to avoid it. parliament is not just a co-legislator. we don't just make laws here. we also take initiative when circumstances require it. we do this by setting up temporary committees or commissions of inquiry. we've created two of them, very important ones. the first concerns the alleged activities of the cia, which has served as a reminder of the importance of safeguarding the democratic values on which our union is founded, and of the need to lead by example. you can't ask others to do what you don't do at home. as regards the 'equitable life' case, it is clear that we have helped to establish the responsibility for a financial disaster which has seriously harmed thousands of european citizens. ladies and gentlemen, we have also been deeply concerned about illegal immigration, a problem which affects the socioeconomic balance of europe, which is at the heart of the values we defend and which produces tragedies which affect us all. we have sent missions to ceuta, melilla, lampedusa, the canary islands, paris and malta, and these have improved the treatment of illegal immigrants and asylum seekers and reminded governments of their responsibilities in this regard. it has been a very important task on the ground, which has been accompanied by very active participation in the reflection on the future of europe. you will remember that parliament approved the constitutional treaty by a majority, that i, as your president, defended this position in the referendum debates in several countries - not just my own - that after the french and dutch "noes" and the silence of many others, we have taken important initiatives in this process of reflection in cooperation with the commission which the german presidency has now brought to an end. the conference of presidents has been particularly committed to this task, visiting each presidency country and holding discussions with civil society in each country. it is not the time to analyse the seriousness of the crisis in which the union finds itself as a result of the rejection of the constitutional treaty. we are all aware of the seriousness of this crisis. but i want to demand here, in my last words as president, that parliament be closely involved in finding a solution, and i am glad that the german presidency has announced to me that it will ask the european parliament to appoint a representative for this task, just as it will ask the commission and the member states. we have launched a whole series of initiatives on absorptive capacity, which we have renamed integration, on the cost of non-constitution, asking the commission to draw up a report on this, and we have done so because a large majority of the members of this parliament - not all, as we could see when we heard the anthem - believe in the need for a political europe which can play a role on the international scene as a global actor, and i can tell you that there is a very keen desire for europe in the world, that europe is appreciated and desired throughout the world, perhaps more than within europe itself. and to meet this demand from europe, we have developed what is now called parliamentary diplomacy. i myself have visited several non-member countries to explain what europe is, to listen to their problems with regard to the world at large and with us in particular, sometimes to negotiate. in india, in china, in many latin american countries, in africa, in all the candidate countries and in almost all the mediterranean countries. but it wasn't just me. our election observation activity is very important in the world today do you know that we have sent 33 delegations to 26 countries, with the participation of 242 members of parliament, and do you know what role we have played in ukraine, palestine, afghanistan, congo and venezuela, to name just the most important? yes, we can be content with our place in the world. walking up to him and welcoming him here. the heads of state of the member states of the union pass through here, but 15 heads of state of other countries have also spoken in this parliament, at the invitation of its president, at important moments for them and for us. some of their names clearly demonstrate this: viktor yushchenko, hamid karzai, mahmud abbas, fuad siniora, evo morales, ellen johnson sirleaf, to name but a few. we have also gained political importance in this respect, and we can also be proud to work in this institution. we must also be satisfied with the role played by the sakharov prize, which gives such encouragement to those who fight for freedom, as alexander milinkievitch told us here last december, or as leyla zana reminded me when she told me in istanbul how important it was for her and her cause to be able to come to strasbourg and see her image projected on television all over the world, how much we have helped her in her fight. and that is why i regret that we have not been able to welcome the ladies in white here, nor aung san suu kyi, sakharov prize winner in 1990, who is still - 16 years later - under house arrest in her country. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, over the past 30 months, the defence of democratic values and human rights has become one of our hallmarks. this parliament is known for its defence of human rights, a central issue in relations with other countries. our delegations are heavily involved in this and it has also been present on all my official trips. i have dealt with this subject - sometimes with concrete results - in colombia, china, tunisia, egypt, algeria, turkey... and in lahti, finland, i was able to speak openly to president putin, reminding him that europe should not trade human rights for energy. we have also worked to promote cooperation between large regional groups. we have made an important contribution to the barcelona process in apem, but unfortunately this has coincided with the increase in tension between the western world and the islamic world. the apem remains the only place where it is possible to adopt common positions in conflict situations, as was the case with the mohammed cartoons crisis or the lebanon war. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations, and it is a political union of nations, and it is a political union of nations. the work of the acp-eu joint assembly has been vital in preventing africa from becoming the forgotten continent of globalisation. and we have been determined to create the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly, and after intense work this summer, it is constituted. i hope that parliament will give this new instrument for relations between europe and latin america the full weight it deserves. we have overcome suspicions and antagonisms with the national parliaments. we have held systematic interparliamentary conferences, because we have to work together with the members of parliament and the senators of the parliaments of each country, and i hope that the practice of holding conferences during each presidency which enable us to work together will continue. ladies and gentlemen, i take my leave of this high office in the knowledge that the european union is seeking its economic and social response to globalisation, the great issue of our time, and that many europeans, many of the citizens whom we represent here, today perceive globalisation more as a risk than as an opportunity. we may or may not regret that, but it is so. according to eurostat, in 2003 56% of europeans were in favour of globalisation. now, in the latest eurostat survey, they are only 37%. a drop of 20 points in three years is certainly a worrying phenomenon. there are big differences between countries, they don't see it the same in one european country as in another. but i am sure that if each of them had to face the globalized world alone, they would feel very alone, overwhelmed by the magnitude of some challenges that we can better respond to together. together we can do more, and that is why we must strengthen our union in the search for a common energy policy, especially after we have seen the ears of the gas wolf coming to us from the east. we have not yet had an energy policy in europe. we have only applied competition policy to the energy sector as if it were any other sector. but that's not enough, because markets, the market, the most efficient of markets, does not create power, nor does it create security, nor does it give you the ability to negotiate with third parties. i am absolutely convinced that in the world of tomorrow there is an inseparable pair: the energy/environment pair, and europe can find in this inseparable pair a new reason for being. as you can see, it is also a necessary counterpart to our weak demographic, the problems of immigration. in the short term, europe's demographic gap will only be filled by more immigrants. but while we seek a policy of immigration, the desperate from the underdeveloped continue to arrive on our shores at the risk of their lives. and it is an illusion to believe that, after we have abolished internal borders between them, after we have decided to have no borders between us, we can continue to maintain each one's own immigration policy, each one controlling its own external border. we need immigrants, we have to tell the europeans, but we must be able to integrate them. and no immigration control policy will succeed without the development of the countries of origin. if you take a walk along the niger arc, you'll understand perfectly. the european union is also looking for its own resources. truly their own. we have devoted the debate of the last two interparliamentary conferences to this. we need a system which allows budgetary agreements to be reached which are not dominated by a short-sighted consideration of each country's net balance in purely accounting terms. this way of discussing the financial perspective will never lead to an ambitious budget for the union. for us members of parliament this is a matter of great importance. i would remind you that at the beginning of parliamentarism there was a saying: 'no taxation without representation'. well, today, in the construction of political europe, we can perhaps say the opposite: 'no real representation without taxation'. they often feel that europe is too absent on the big issues that no country can solve alone and too present on the small issues. indeed, as the commission often reminds us, the european union needs to strengthen its legitimacy by producing results through good policies. but the little problem is that good politics don't grow on trees. good policies are the result of strong, effective and democratic institutions. this parliament, which is the symbol of european representative democracy and the embryo of the supranational democracy we are building, must therefore continue to improve its functioning in order to contribute to the relaunch of european integration. with this wish, let me conclude with an imaginary dialogue between jean monnet and the spanish poet antonio machado, one of our great poets, who died in exile, and who wrote a poem that every spaniard knows: "everything passes and everything remains. "yes, i could have answered monnet, men pass, but institutions remain. no one can pass on all his experience to others, so nothing can be done without institutions. yes, my friends, everything is passing. but the important thing is not the passing of each of us, but that we have institutions that remain and that are witnesses to the history that we all write together. yes, my friends, everything is left. there are still emotions and affections, both personal and political, which are our most important human capital. there are quiet moments, which no one will know, and there are solemn moments, such as the european council meetings, which i have had the honour of representing. i have addressed the heads of state and government on their behalf and i can tell them that we have been listened to with ever greater attention and that we have been invited to participate more and more in their work. it's a satisfaction i want to share with you. it has been a great honour to preside over the european parliament. i thank you for your confidence and wish the successor all the best. thank you very much. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
mr president, allow me 30 seconds to point out that now that you are leaving this presidency, when all the members of this house were paying tribute to you, only the spanish meps of the pp refused to applaud you. as a member elected in spain, who did not vote for you either, i regret that attitude, because it is bringing into this house a division which is taking place in your place of origin and which is affecting much more serious matters. i want to deplore and denounce it publicly, and congratulate you from a distance and from a distance, as have other colleagues of other political colours, and i regret the attitude of members of the spanish people's party who have remained seated while the whole house applauded you on their feet.
thank you very much. unfortunately, your words will not be recorded in the minutes, because you have used non-community language, which i understood perfectly. but his aim, surely, was not to be recorded in the record, but to convey his affection to me by using my native language, and i thank him for that.
mr president, i am glad to be able to speak today, on a very special day, when you are the president of this house, and you know how much i admire you and how much i feel for you as a brother. and i am also glad to have listened to mrs merkel's speech, especially the first part. i believe that a political leader is one who puts his vision before political action, and we have seen a lot of vision here today, and that is necessary, mrs merkel, because in europe today there are too many accountants, too many doomsayers, too many antitheses, and i believe that a little vision, anchored in values and principles, is necessary to recover the illusion. so i congratulate you on that. and also for making the withdrawal from the constitutional treaty the priority of the german presidency. president barroso has explained very well the reasons why the constitutional treaty is better than the existing treaties. that's a reality that no one disputes. if we put what we have and the constitutional treaty on a scale, the constitutional treaty is infinitely better. but there is also a psychological reason: many europeans believe that europe will be in crisis as long as the constitutional question is not resolved and that therefore, in order to get out of this litany of crisis, we need to find a solution. i think today was not the day, mrs merkel, to give us the answers. it's not possible. we still have a lot to talk about. but you said one thing. he said: 'i want the european commission and the european parliament to be consulted.' i want to tell you that, to me, consultation seems little. the european commission and the european parliament must be involved in the solution, and they must be involved because history shows that governments put national interests first and the interests of all second, and the commission and parliament, which are european institutions and institutions of all, have a broader vision. so, mrs merkel, ambition is only to fulfill schiller's words, 'mutigen hilft gott'.
madam president, first of all, congratulations on your election as vice-president and on having obtained the highest number of votes in the election we held yesterday. we are again discussing in this parliament the case of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor convicted in libya. i would first like to express the solidarity of the whole of parliament with the sick children - some of whom have already died - and their families. but at the same time, i also want to make a strong statement of principle and against the death penalty. in the european countries, thank god, we have concluded for many years that no human being has the right to take the life of another human being, nor does he justify the possibility of doing so. in april 2005, the members of the delegation for relations with the maghreb countries and the arab maghreb union had the opportunity to be in libya, and we spoke with their authorities about this case. at that time there seemed to be a glimmer of hope because the plan - which was subsequently approved - for the european union to work with the children and the benghazi hospital was under way. however, in the light of the review of the process and the new conviction, we have observed, or can verify, that the technical reports which have exonerated the bulgarian nurses - signed some of them by the discoverer of the aids virus himself or by oxford scientists - have shown, by making a phylogenetic analysis of the children's virus, that this virus had arrived in libya many years before the bulgarian nurses set foot on libyan soil. however, we have seen that these reports have not been admitted to the court, and that the nurses and the doctor have not been given the proper procedural guarantees. finally, madam president, commissioner barrot asked us to be discreet and prudent in this matter. i believe that this has been the case for the last eight long years, with the result so far. perhaps the european union should now, in addition to using the principles of discretion and prudence, put the emphasis on firmness.
madam president, i congratulate you on having a seat at this table. the socialist group considers extremely serious the sentence confirming the death sentences of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor, who are unjustly accused of infecting hundreds of children with the aids virus. this condemnation, which is totally unacceptable to all european democrats, is intended to condemn not only the accused but also medicine and humanitarian aid in libya. we therefore express our utmost opposition to the death penalty under any circumstances and reiterate the european union's commitment to the fight for its abolition or a global moratorium on its application. the death sentence is particularly unfair in this case; first, because the process did not meet the rules of independence and impartiality of the court, a rather widespread issue in the case of libya, and second, because the sentence goes against the tangible evidence presented by neutral experts, which proves that the accused are innocent. in addition, as i said, medicine and public health are being condemned because the real causes of the aids virus in children are being kept hidden. we appeal to the tragedy of these convicts, who after eight years in libyan prisons are suffering in inhuman conditions and reporting ill-treatment; and we also recall the tragedy of the sick children and the families of the deceased children, to whom my group expresses its full solidarity, as well as support for the european commission's programmes in libya to combat aids. we call for the immediate release of the nurses and the doctor, who are innocent, and we demand that the libyan authorities concentrate on the infected children. we therefore promote amongst all of us a human rights policy which is truly coherent, credible and firm.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i thank you for your contributions and also for your commitment to the five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. as in the past, it must be made clear that the european union is showing solidarity with bulgaria, with the nurses and with the palestinian doctor and that it is not going to relent in its efforts. i can assure you that the presidency will not fail to speak clearly in its dialogue with the libyan institutions, both as a result of this discussion and as a result of previous decisions. we cannot accept the trial or the verdict. it has been said by some that the european union is opposed to the death penalty, not only for itself but also elsewhere. it is true - and some speakers have said this - that there has been a rapprochement of libya with europe. this reversal of the previous libyan position a few years ago was right and important, but at the same time, as this rapprochement becomes concrete, it must be made very clear that we cannot accept what has happened in libya in this process so far. the german presidency will therefore work with the commission to increase pressure on libya so that the people who have been living in insecurity for many years because of a death sentence will finally be able to end their insecurity. on the other hand, we have made it clear, and we will make it clear in the future, that we are of course looking at the other side of the tragedy and will continue to support the children and people affected wherever our help is needed. but it cannot be misused for other purposes. it is therefore important that the presidency also has the support of the european parliament.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i congratulate you on your re-election, and i can tell you that my colleague meglena kuneva and i have listened very carefully to the whole debate, which reflects the deep concern of the whole of the european parliament about the unacceptable situation of these people who have been imprisoned since 1999, a date which should not have escaped you. we are convinced, on behalf of the commission, that the european institutions have an absolute duty of solidarity in this matter and that our support must be determined. i therefore confirm, as the presidency has just done, the solidarity of all the european institutions in the face of this tragedy. i would also like to express the firm determination of our colleague, mrs benita ferrero-waldner, to reach a negotiated solution. mrs ferrero-waldner is fully committed to a dialogue which is difficult, but which must be carried out. finally, while i have referred earlier to initiatives which may be improvised or untimely and which risk disturbing this necessary negotiation and dialogue, the libyan authorities must not forget that the future of relations between libya and the european union will depend on the solution to this problem. mrs benita ferrero-waldner will keep parliament informed of any developments on this matter, mr president, and in particular after the general affairs council. i thank parliament for the language it has used on this matter, which is very dignified and commensurate with its seriousness.
thank you very much, commissioner. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr romeva i rueda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the seventh and eighth annual reports of the council pursuant to operative provision 8 of the european union code of conduct on arms exports. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
the european parliament has already made a number of recommendations to the council and the commission on the implementation of the code of conduct on arms exports. and i am pleased to do so at a time when, at the request of the secretary-general of the united nations, the process for the adoption of an international treaty on arms transfers has formally begun, which is also a historic demand of broad sectors of civil society around the world. as you will have seen, we have now analysed two years in a row, 2004 and 2005, in order to close the gap that had been created in previous reports between the presentation of the annual report by the council and the evaluation by the european parliament. however, despite the fact that the council has considerably accelerated the pace of presentation of its annual report, it is still too late - the 2005 report arrived last autumn - and we therefore insist once again that it would be desirable for the council to continue the efforts towards transparency and timeliness that it has been making in recent times and for the annual report to be available at least throughout the first quarter of the following year. the european parliament must also be able to respond to this request and must respond promptly to the annual report presented by the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first, the data. according to the statistics provided, the trend in the weight of european arms exports in relation to the rest of the world is maintained, with around one third of total arms exports coming from the european union. in 2004, european arms exports were worth almost eur 10 billion and eur 9 billion in 2005. however, what we are also interested in here is the total value of the licences granted, because this is what shows whether the code of conduct is really being applied correctly. the figures are eur 25 billion for 2004 and eur 26 billion for 2005. it is also important and worrying that the countries which buy european arms include china, colombia, ethiopia, eritrea, indonesia, israel and nepal, names which we usually discuss in the debates on urgent matters on thursday afternoons in this parliament, which, at first sight, is already a flagrant contradiction of the very content of the code of conduct. secondly, and this is probably the most important aspect we have highlighted in our report, we must deeply regret the fact that, despite the fact that coreper decided in june 2005 to transform the current code of conduct into a common position, thus giving it a legal status at european level that it does not have today, and despite the fact that the technical work for this change was already done months ago by the coar technicians, the council has not yet made this step effective. and, more importantly, in the absence of an explicit reason for the delay, what underlies it is the implicit reason that some governments would be making this transformation and thus the strengthening of the code of conduct conditional on the simultaneous lifting of the arms embargo on china. let me be very clear here. in this house we have always considered the two subjects to be independent of each other. with regard to the arms embargo on china, the council and the commission know that our position has been and is that the lifting of the embargo must be conditional on clear and effective progress in respecting human rights in china and, in particular, on what happened at tiananmen in 1989. it is obviously an important issue, and we will debate it, but what we are concerned with today is the european union's code of conduct on arms exports, which concerns arms exports to the whole world, and not just to china. in other words, and i apologize for the frankness, we do not understand or accept this delay, nor do the many civil society organisations that have been working for years for a greater and better control mechanism for arms exports, both at european and global level, in order to reduce the harmful impact that this type of trade often has. i hope, therefore, that the report which this house will adopt tomorrow will contribute, by its content and its political timing, to a slight improvement in the control of arms exports, both european and global, in the framework of a future, hopefully soon to come, international treaty on arms transfers.
mr president, my speech is going in the direction which is absolutely opposite or contrary to that of my predecessor, and i begin by saying that neither the united kingdom nor any single country, however large and powerful, is capable of facing any of the global problems of today's world - and this is one of them - alone, however much my colleague may say that the united kingdom is self-sufficient. even the european union cannot do enough and more on its own, but we can do something, and in the report mr romeva is making great progress, as he has done on the two previous occasions - this is the third - in which he is and has been rapporteur on this occasion for the seventh and eighth council reports on arms export control. another point i have heard made in several speeches: this is not a report, nor is it the intention of the rapporteur, nor of those who voted for it in the committee on foreign affairs, to go against the arms industry per se or arms exports, but against the misuse - the abuse - of arms exports and therefore in favour of control which today is the non-binding code of conduct, so he is putting forward support - and many with him, i am sure also tomorrow - for a common union position on arms control. it is absolutely necessary, and it will certainly strengthen the common foreign and security policy and enable us to be more effective in denouncing, monitoring and curbing abuses, excesses and breaches of arms export regulations to countries not only in conflict but also to failed countries or countries with unsuitable relations with the world. i don't have any more time to stretch. i would just like to congratulate mr romeva on his report.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we agreed many years ago to create a common european area based on the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services within it, and we have certainly made progress in recent years, but we still have a long way to go to make our intentions a reality. one of the various tasks still to be accomplished is precisely the one we are discussing today: the opening up of rail passenger services to the european common market. we are talking about a service which directly affects citizens and we must therefore act with caution to avoid that the achievement of our objective may create so much damage that it does not compensate for the expected benefit. as has happened in other types of liberalization, we must be careful and patient to ensure that our decisions leave enough room for adaptation to changes and do not adversely affect any basic public services. the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe is firmly committed to the opening up of international services to the market, as proposed by the commission and also by the council in its common position, but we also want other national services to be liberalized and this to be reflected in this amendment to directive 91/440/eec which we are discussing. in this last respect, we know that there are many people, like our french colleagues and others, who fear that free competition may have a negative impact on the provision of less profitable inland rail services. we share this concern and, therefore, although we will generally support the amendments of the committee on transport and tourism, we will vote in favour of amendment no 37 so that in 2012, taking account of the experience gained in the last two years in the liberalization of international services, the commission will present us with a report analysing, five years in advance, the state of preparation for the opening up of the market for travel services within the states. we shall also reject amendment no 18, because it seems reasonable to us that the right of international services to cabotage may be limited for a maximum period of up to 15 years when this means competing with another earlier state concession awarded by a transparent and open public procedure. we will advocate that the introduction of new international services which create competition does not affect the economic viability of existing regional and local rail services, and that charges may be established which must be met by both the national and international services and which will be used to compensate for public service obligations. we also want to encourage private initiative to invest in the development of railways and, to this end, we propose that framework agreements for the award of rail transport services should be able to cover a period of 15 years, and even longer in the case of large investments in specialised infrastructure which present an annual depreciation plan justifying this exceptional period. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr jarzembowski, mr sterckx and mr savary, for the work they have done.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i should like to thank you for the very open and very interesting debate on the railway package. it shows how important the railway is and how it must become more important. there is a great deal of agreement in parliament on this, and this strengthens the commission, the council and all of us. i am convinced that the diversity of the 27 countries must be taken into account. the same applies to the passion for implementing open market access. if we accept the conditions of individuals with both moderation and passion, and at the same time create opportunities for regulation and deregulation, we will also find greater acceptance. there is a legitimate fear in many member states that, following the opening of the market to national passenger transport, well-known companies will simply take over the market. this is one of the reasons why the opening up of the market is not being pursued with the same degree of rigour as you, mr jarzembowski, have made clear in your report. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the other speakers for their commitment to transport policy, and in particular to railways. i am sure we will meet again at the next opportunity to find a compromise.
the next item is the continuation of the joint debate on european railways. as i take up the responsibility of president of the european parliament for the first time, i would like to make a memento for all those who have accompanied me up to this point in my life and career, my party colleagues and the citizens of my province, ciudad real, in spain, who have allowed me to be in the parliament of my country for twenty-two years, and in particular it is a happy circumstance and a historical coincidence to speak of railways when i come from a town called alcázar de san juan, which was a central point in the history of the railway and in the history of the workers' movement in my country.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate you from the bottom of my heart. who would have told you, when you left alcázar de san juan, the emblematic railway and trade union centre in spain, under the isolation of the franco dictatorship, that european railways would take you to alcázar de san juan again tonight, but this time as vice-president of the european parliament? you look beautiful, and you're wearing some republican flowers that someone must have put there on your left. i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, especially mr jarzembowski, because he is the rapporteur who, as always, has the patience to listen to everyone, including those who disagree with him but whom we deeply love and respect. i thank you all for your intense and painstaking work, and your patience, with our reservations and doubts. i am pleased that the european parliament has succeeded in getting the council and the commission to accept a large part of its proposals, which are aimed at the complex task of harmonizing and modernizing the present 27 different railway systems with the aim of providing us with a european railway area that makes railways a sustainable, attractive, safe and future-oriented medium. the european parliament's approach should, in my view, be to continue, once again, with a gradual and controlled opening-up, in which this third legislative package is another step. but we are not so naive or cynical as to deceive the citizens of europe by claiming that by setting a date on the calendar - which, moreover, many people consider premature - the present problems of the railways will disappear. will the budgetary constraints on transeuropean networks, which prevent us from removing the real crossborder obstacles where there are mountains, such as the alps or the pyrenees, let alone the rtms, disappear in 2017? will the congestion of rail freight infrastructure or the problems of interoperability of systems disappear with this magic date - not to mention other problems which the commission is fortunately now tackling, such as the certification of locomotives and rolling stock? on the other hand, apart from the continuing liberalization, there are also success stories of the railways which show that this is not the only sine qua non. the success of the high-speed passenger train in spain, for example, is a case in point. it is not the same - i must say - with goods, but i think germany is a leader in this sector, even before liberalisation. it is perhaps appropriate to learn from all these experiences, and therefore to call for a gradual opening-up approach which will enable us to concentrate on criteria and conditions, with particular attention to the viability of public services and the diversity of existing concession formulas. that is why we voted in favour of amendment no 33. we therefore support the commission's proposal that, two years after the opening up of international passenger traffic, it should draw up an assessment of the progress and problems and, if necessary, propose new measures to accompany the further opening up process, as proposed in the texts agreed by the three institutions, because in the study, at least, we are all in agreement. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission's vice-president mr president, first of all, i should like to join all the members who have warmly congratulated you in saying how pleased i am to be taking part in this sitting which you are chairing. i thank all the members of parliament. i think we have had more than 40 speeches and i see a great deal of interest in them for the future of rail in europe. i thank you, because this is a top priority for the commission and for me personally. i shall return very briefly, mr president, to a few observations. firstly, i would like to remind you that the commission is not opposed in principle to the opening up of domestic services to competition, but that it considers that a decision under this third railway package is premature. the commission will continue to examine the matter and, if it considers that the circumstances permit, it may exercise its right of initiative in this matter. i would add that we also have the possibility of introducing elements of competition, in particular through the text on the regulation of public service obligations, which is itself based on contractual arrangements, transparency and a certain degree of openness to competition, while respecting subsidiarity. i think my remarks have made the commission's position clear. on the second point, i note that there is unanimity on the certification of train and locomotive drivers and what mrs hennicot-schoepges has just told us shows both the absolute need for technical interoperability and human interoperability. the train drivers and all those involved in the operation of the train must be able to receive training appropriate to their responsibilities. i agree with mr savary on this point. finally, the third proposal, the one reported by mr sterckx, has the merit of covering domestic services, while providing for a temporary exemption system. i think that this is a very good basis for future negotiations. i would also like to take this opportunity to say, especially to mr grosch, that we have not forgotten the fourth element of this railway package, which is the quality of freight. the commission has not forgotten this important issue in order to revitalize rail freight in europe. it has regular contacts with the associations representing freight customers and i will report on the development of freight quality in europe before the end of the year, as was said at the first reading. these, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, are the comments i wanted to make at the end of this debate, which has really shown parliament's interest in promoting rail transport, both for passengers and for freight. i hope that everyone, in their heart and in their conscience, can vote to help us move forward. i would add that i will be fully involved in the delicate and difficult role of mediator between parliament and the council in order to make this third railway package a reality.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. annex - position of the commission
the next item is the report by mrs ewa hedkvist petersen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the european road safety action programme - mid-term review.
we, all the colleagues, thank you too, ewa; we'll miss you. we wish you all kinds of success in your future activities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, i would like to congratulate the president on her election and wish her the best of luck in her new role. ladies and gentlemen, road safety is one of those issues that is always topical. all member states take stock of accidents and casualties at one time or another, and the conclusion is usually the same: we can all, and always, do more to reduce the number of casualties. in my view, there are three fundamental elements for improving road safety: improving the safety of infrastructure, the progressive harmonization of rules and road safety education. the improvement of the safety of the transeuropean road network is fundamental, that is to say, unfortunately once again, the new financial framework of the union is not exactly hopeful and does not contain sufficient resources to improve the quality of the community's roads. the european commission has also proposed a directive to improve the safety of infrastructure. there is one point, which i think is of particular interest, which the directive addresses, albeit in a limited way: the need for road safety barriers to also provide safety for motorists. many harmonisation measures will also have positive effects on road safety, such as the establishment of minimum requirements for active and passive safety for vehicles, the mandatory use of reflective strips on lorries, the uniformity of technical road signalling standards and the establishment of rest areas for drivers. i also believe that the education of our young people should include a minimum of road safety content, both as pedestrians and as potential drivers. education and training are essential for consistent long-term results. i therefore hope that the house will reject the last-minute attempt by the socialist group to repeal the text approved by the committee on transport. i have listened with pleasure to the liberal group's remarks and i hope that the commission will reject this claim and adopt these lines. madam rapporteur, thank you very much for your work, goodbye and good luck.
madam president, i would like to congratulate you on a very special occasion. i'm very glad to see you in this new role, which i'm sure you'll do very well. i also thank our colleague ewa for the enormous effort she has made over the years to improve road safety in europe. i saw her come from her region of luleå and we have learned together the best, and i hope - i am convinced - that in her future career she will be able to apply all that tenacity and conviction which she has shown here in the european parliament. i wish you the best, comrade ewa. the review we have on the table today shows that we will not achieve the target of reducing the number of deaths by 50% by 2010, because there are only three years left and we are still going a little slow. the worst part is that the largest number of victims are children and young people, and pedestrians over 65. once again, i must express my frustration at not being able to reach a broad majority on speed limitation by legislation despite the overwhelming evidence that it is the number one cause of death, and that even the world health organisation has indicated that it should be given priority. that is why my delegation will vote in favour of amendment no 1 by the green group. i am very pleased, however, that the rapporteur is convinced and that my group supports the limitation of the blood alcohol level to 0.5 mg in general and to 0.2 mg for young and professional drivers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, increase the seat belt warnings not only for the front but also for the rear seats and for all cars, both high and low end; also install the so-called ergonomic seatbelt barriers to avoid high mortality among motorists and eliminate level crossings. finally, and although it seems almost a joke, i would like the automobile industry to come up with a low-cost but highly effective device for persuading the driver to stop, which would consist of indicating on the odometer, in the same red colour as is now used for the rev counter, the speed limit on which agreement should be reached, 130, 140, the maximum, which could act as a psychological warning element, which in other cases has proved very effective. we will of course continue to work with the commission on the new proposals on infrastructure and the prosecution of complaints.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate you on your election and also mrs záborská on the work done in her report which unfortunately once again shows that, despite the efforts made, there are still imbalances between men and women in positions of responsibility in public institutions too. if we are to achieve full equality in society, in the european institutions and in the european parliament in particular, we must set an example of our own political commitment. so an integrated approach to gender equality in our work and more women in positions of responsibility are two issues that should be taken very seriously by all the bodies in our parliament. this report has the merit of being a document from our institution which takes a further step in this direction, but it should be continuous, setting clear objectives to be achieved, the methodology to achieve them, the persons responsible who must act to achieve them, and carrying out periodic evaluations to identify, on the one hand, the achievements and, on the other hand, the reasons why they have not been achieved. only with the constant and rigorous work of all of us in this institution will we be able to achieve real equality between men and women.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we are dealing with a rather complex text which has been the subject of a number of amendments in the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament and on which the commission is giving us its position on the views expressed by the council. i think the rapporteur has done a good job, but in the committee on legal affairs the positions were adopted by a group which has a majority in this committee but not in the house, and the socialist group therefore expresses its disagreement with several of the amendments adopted by the committee on legal affairs. i am referring in particular to the removal of the reference to 'special rules', for example those relating to television without frontiers, electronic commerce and so on. i am also referring to the issue of environmental damage. at the moment, the importance of environmental damage is so great that it seems impossible that there can be any regulation that does not take this special aspect into account. and there is another aspect, the issue of unfair competition. unfair competition also deserves some kind of detailed regulation. a general statement is not enough, as it affects many aspects of the internal market. in short, we agree with most of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, but we disagree with several of the amendments adopted by the committee on legal affairs, which reflect a majority, i would say a circumstantial majority, which is unlikely to be reflected in this house. in any case, i have the impression that we will have to examine this matter in detail in conciliation, depending on the outcome of the votes that will be held here. given that different political groups have tabled different amendments to several of the amendments adopted by the committee on legal affairs, until we have the results of the vote tomorrow it will be a little difficult to know what the final text of parliament will be.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, infringements of the community competition rules have or may have effects in several member states. the possible application by the judicial authorities of the criterion of as many legislations as countries concerned may complicate the pursuit of actions for damages, make legal action more difficult and weaken competition. as rapporteur for the report on the exercise of private actions for damages arising therefrom, i believe that they deserve their own treatment, and i would remind you that the commission has reserved the right to submit proposals once the current consultation is concluded. the amendment which i have tabled with mrs berger, and which the rapporteur shares - and i am grateful to her for that - draws attention to this situation and proposes that the party who brings the action at the defendant's domicile should be given the option of choosing the law of the place of jurisdiction for his action. opening conciliation will allow the issue to be explored further and an appropriate treatment to be outlined.
i am pleased to greet the president of the mexican senate foreign relations committee, mr josé guadarrama, who is present in the official gallery. you are welcome, senator. we wish you a happy and fruitful stay with us.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the moratorium on the death penalty.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am speaking to you today about one of the most fundamental aspects of the european union's human rights policy. the timeliness of this subject is also reflected in several motions for resolutions tabled by the various groups in the european parliament. on the basis of the guidelines for a union policy towards third countries on the death penalty adopted by the council of ministers of the european union in 1998, the european union is committed to the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances throughout the world. the establishment of moratoriums has also been an integral part of the fight against the death penalty for many years, but not as the main objective, but as an intermediate step towards its final abolition. the european union will continue its policy of protecting human rights under the german presidency of the council, and in this spirit will continue to advocate both a moratorium and the final abolition of the death penalty. this means, on the one hand, that the debate on principles will continue to be conducted decisively in bilateral contacts as well as in multilateral fora, in particular in the united nations. this also means continuing to actively approach and intervene in countries at a turning point, i.e. where there is a positive or negative development with regard to the death penalty, and this means very concretely taking action in many urgent individual cases. i know that the european parliament has always supported this policy and i am glad to say that we have already achieved a great deal together. the fact that the death penalty has been abolished in law or in practice in some two thirds of the countries of the world is also the result of the consistent efforts of all those who are actively fighting against it. this - i would like to emphasise this - includes active involvement in the council of europe. the 13th additional protocol to the european convention on human rights, which also abolishes the death penalty in wartime within the european council's competence, has now been ratified by 33 states. but i would also like to mention that there are still too many countries, 66 in number, which continue to use the death penalty, and unfortunately also some declining trends in the observance of moratoriums. it is therefore important that we do not relent in our efforts and campaign specifically - especially in international forums - for the abolition of the death penalty. in this spirit, the european union has submitted a resolution to the commission on human rights, which was dissolved in 2005, every year since 1999. over the years, a stable majority in favour of this resolution has been secured. after the dissolution of this body, we must look for new ways to advance the debate on the abolition of the death penalty. but there are no easy answers. we must be very careful about what we do, because the first thing to do is to avoid going backwards. there is a clear consensus on this line in the european union so far. the european union has therefore so far refrained from introducing a resolution to the un general assembly because of the continued high risk of failure. instead, on 19 december last year, at the initiative of the european union, a unilateral declaration against the death penalty was presented for the first time at the united nations general assembly, which was supported by 85 states of all geographical groups. this is an encouraging result, but it also confirms that the chances of success of an eu resolution in the un general assembly cannot yet be considered as assured. what's the next step? it is clear to all our partners in the european union that we want to continue to actively promote our cause, the fight against the death penalty, also at the level of the united nations. at the same time, however, i would like to make it clear that the environment remains very difficult and that, therefore, success in the fight against the death penalty can only be achieved through well-considered and gradual action by the european union. the aim should continue to be to avoid the failure of any new eu initiative as far as possible, because a failure of the european union would be a success for the proponents of the death penalty and thus a step backwards in the fight against this inhuman punishment. we cannot and must not allow this to happen! i think we're getting support, too. some key ngos, such as amnesty international, also warn against hasty action and say it could be counterproductive for the european union to push for a new debate on the subject in the un general assembly. the general council of 22 january therefore agreed to develop a well-thought-out approach which would gradually enable us to give greater emphasis to our concerns in the united nations. the ambassadors in new york and geneva were accordingly instructed to examine immediately all possibilities for furthering the discussion at the level of the united nations. it is also important to obtain up-to-date assessments from relevant non-governmental organisations on the next steps to be taken in the fight against the death penalty at the un level. on this basis, the eu presidency will then make proposals to the eu partners in february for further action. i think this is an important first step and i hope that we will also find support for this approach! (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, i also welcome this opportunity to exchange views on the issue of the death penalty and on the means to promote the universal abolition of this odious practice. as you know, the abolition of the death penalty worldwide represents a key objective of the external human rights policy of the european union, and i am personally committed to seeing the eu continue to play a lead role, as we have just heard, in this global effort. since all of us here agree on the ultimate goal of our action in this field, namely universal abolition, i wish to provide some thoughts on this process of abolition and on the means to reach our common goal. firstly, let us not forget that the experience of abolition on the european continent has been a slow, often tortuous and protracted process, which has been, for most of our member states, driven by a combination of strong political leadership and a mature level of development of human rights protection, the rule of law and democratic institutions. with some notable exceptions, including the united states of america and japan, the global map of abolitionist countries also closely follows that of democratic pluralism. visionary leadership and political courage are key to abolishing the death penalty. these efforts often need to be bolstered by a dynamic and open nationwide debate to ensure that the ultimate political decision to abolish the death penalty in a country is also a permanent one. in the philippines, and to some extent kyrgyzstan, the recent abolition of the death penalty was precisely the result both of remarkable courage on the part of the political leadership and a profound nationwide debate, which witnessed wide participation from civil society actors – which has been mentioned – and institutions. in the united states of america, there are also some encouraging trends in some states, like new jersey and maryland. on the other hand, it is not excluded that a country falls back into the practice of death penalty as we, unfortunately, have witnessed in bahrain and need to fear in peru. and in many other countries our appeals to abolish the death penalty have fallen on deaf ears until now. the execution of saddam hussein and his henchmen has now sparked a renewed debate on the death penalty. the horrific videos of his undignified end upset even some supporters of the death penalty. but let us not forget that every year thousands are executed, most of whom are certainly somewhat better people than saddam and many are even innocent. their deaths should outrage us even more! while evidently the abolition of the death penalty in any country is, to quote robert badinter, ‘a victory of humanity over itself’, one must remain realistic as to the influence of external actors, such as the european union, in this process, because this process remains first and foremost a domestic one. this is not to say that the european union will sit on the fence. on the contrary, the eu has been and will remain at the very forefront of international efforts, notably at the united nations, as was mentioned, to fight the death penalty. last december, the eu presented a declaration on the death penalty at the un general assembly, which received the support of a record 85 states. in line with our guidelines on the death penalty, the european union has carried out numerous demarches on individual death penalty cases, including in countries such as the united states of america, iran and indonesia, and will continue to do so in the future. the eu is also the leading source of funding for abolitionist projects run by civil society, and over the past ten years, we have spent over eur 15 million supporting such projects around the world. the european parliament and civil society actors have traditionally played a crucial role in both supporting the abolitionist efforts of the european union and in stimulating the debate on the means to enhance our policy. it is of prime importance to listen carefully to those voices when discussing possible initiatives in various international forums, as the council is currently doing. this has certainly been illustrated most recently by the italian proposal for a universal moratorium on the death penalty at the un general assembly. without prejudging the final outcome of this process of reflection, i wish to share three observations made by abolitionist actors on the moratorium which have struck me as relevant for feeding today’s discussion. while representing a key element in the eu’s strategy towards universal abolition, leading ngos have stressed that a moratorium is not a panacea. they claim it is by essence fragile, reversible and must be followed by abolition in law. they refer to the example of kyrgyzstan, where the regularly extended moratorium on executions has not prevented the number of prisoners on death row from increasing. i think we need moratoria that hold firm. secondly, some ngos underline the fact that the moratorium is one abolitionist tool among others. i agree that, in this context, the promotion of the second optional protocol providing for abolition, the support for legal counselling for death row convicts and other efforts have to be included in our toolbox. hence, we should avoid the current discussion on the moratorium to eclipse the fact that abolition is a multi-faceted process. lastly, when bringing the issue back to the un general assembly, we need to be cautious as to the possible outcome. it is paramount to secure a positive result. we need to be alive, however, to the risk of an ambiguous or even a counterproductive outcome – and the council presidency has alluded to it – given international divisions on this subject. failing in such an effort could have negative consequences which will be difficult to repair. therefore, we need to assess the situation and possible scenarios thoroughly before moving. in conclusion, i wish to underline the importance of maintaining a common eu approach towards the universal abolition of the death penalty. the commission will spare no efforts to work with the presidency and parliament to this end.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. i think that the words of commissioner ferrero-waldner make it clear what kind of europe we want: a europe of values. if i were to paint a brief picture of what the european dream has been over the years, i would not hesitate to say at this sitting, madam president, that the idea of europe is and represents a permanent call for peace, understanding, harmony and solidarity; and that, in contrast to a legitimate vision of europe, such as the europe of financial perspectives, the europe of the tangible, the europe of the net balance and the net taxpayer, i believe there is a higher vision of europe, which is the europe of values. and it is precisely in this context and in this vision of a europe of values that this initiative for a universal moratorium on the use of the death penalty is inserted. and it must be universal, because fundamental rights, and in particular the right to life, do not have to be preached in a region, a country or a continent, but they must clearly have a universal planetary character. that is why we should welcome the fact that a number of countries, such as liberia, mexico, the philippines and moldova, between 2005 and 2006, have decided to formally abolish the death penalty. i think we must continue to work tirelessly to bring the 70 countries where the death penalty is still applied into line with the 128 countries where it is no longer applied. madam president, i would like to say that if the european union is to continue to maintain the moral and ethical leadership it has been exercising, it is essential that we fight so that democracy, the rule of law, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, and in particular the right to life, prevail in this year and in the next, in all regions of the planet.
madam president, yesterday, 24-year-old robert wilson was sentenced to death by a new york jury. this is the first death sentence handed down in that state in the last 50 years. and this is also a sad example of the insecurity that today weighs on the universal values that we all stand for here today, despite very significant progress that has been made in countries like liberia, mexico, the philippines and moldova. but we must continue to fight so that others, such as china, with about two thousand official executions a year - eight thousand, according to unofficial figures - join the global moratorium and suspend their executions. we must support civil society in iran, which is mobilizing against capital punishment. iran has one of the highest execution rates: 177 in 2006; it has also broken the moratorium on stoning and, to this day, maintains six women condemned to death by stoning. we call in particular on the united states, a country whose decisions have a very great influence on world politics, to support the italian initiative establishing a universal moratorium on the death penalty, which will be adopted - i hope with the support of this parliament - at the united nations general assembly. the moratorium, as has been said here today, is an unavoidable first step towards abolition. this is probably one of the most important challenges facing human beings at the beginning of this century.
madam president, the rejection of the death penalty is not a matter of moral superiority, nor of lecturing anyone, nor of collective arrogance on the part of europe: it is consistency with the basic belief in the dignity of man, experience 'lived over many years' of the absolute uselessness of the capital sentence and fear of the serious, perfectly credible risk of injustice in its application, if only in one particular case (and, unfortunately, it has been in many). europe must strive for what is possible, without rejecting the ultimate goal. what is possible is to demand a moratorium with courage, worldwide, starting with our closest partners, without rejecting - i insist - the ultimate goal, which would be the global abolition of the death penalty. we must protest against the death penalty, but against the death penalty for saddam hussein and against the death penalty for someone who is convicted in the united states, after a trial with virtually no lawyer, for a crime he committed when he was a minor. these death sentences, madam commissioner, must be denounced with the same intensity as saddam hussein's; let us not be double-minded, because if we are fighting against the death penalty, these more or less anonymous prisoners who have had virtually no rights of defence deserve our support even more than a criminal like saddam hussein.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the commission and the council for coming here to discuss this matter and the strategy to be followed in the future. we all share the principle of reducing polluting emissions which guides the proposals of the commission and the member states. we agree on the diagnosis, although we have some disagreements about the remedies to be applied and about the responsibilities of each. i am glad to have heard something here that i consider indispensable, namely that there must be an international agreement on reducing emissions which will succeed in integrating everyone; and if this is not achieved, we will hardly be able to solve it by assuming unilateral objectives. among other things, because the european union alone cannot reduce global emissions or set global temperature targets. i sincerely believe that our main objective must be to reach a global agreement with our efforts, of course, and also with those of our industries. personally, i prefer - like you, commissioner - a more flexible target where everyone commits to a 30% reduction target which we do not know who will subscribe to. in addition, a number of principles must be taken into account. first, countries that have historically been the biggest polluters should reduce their emissions further, and emerging economies should set reasonable emission ceilings for the future. secondly, all sectors will have to face up to their responsibilities in terms of their emissions, because it is pointless to talk about electricity and not talk about transport. thirdly, the carbon sequestration benefits of agriculture and forests, which are natural regulators of the environment, must also be taken into account. finally, i would like to mention the usefulness of promoting renewable energy and clean transport and say that it is urgent that the nuclear debate be brought seriously to the table once and for all.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for the many comments, impulses and of course also - whether you like it or not - the critical remarks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the international community's efforts to combat terrorism. however, we are faced with different situations in the two areas of pnr and swift. i have repeatedly stressed in the presidency's statement the importance of cooperation with the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that implies a lot of things that you've been talking about today. the questions are, how far does this information go, what access does one have, what controls does the other person have to perform? similar questions arise in relation to swift, and i would like to take up again the suggestion made by mr radwan. whether this is now on the agenda of the g7, the g8 or the eu-us area, it is important to address this issue. it would certainly not be effective to move from one aspect to the next, because the subject is essentially the same: it is about data protection, it is about legal certainty, it is also about the question of the design of the transatlantic partnership, whereas we believe that partnership is not a one-way street. it is not against each other, but with each other. we need this information, and in a relationship between the european union and the united states it should be possible to address this very clearly at future meetings, especially in order to counter the danger you have described. i have no proof of this, but it is quite right to speak openly about this. when will we face the next case of potentially unsecured access to data? we are happy to take that point. i say this quite deliberately, without going into technical details, especially at swift. where's the data? are they here, and do we have the ability to regulate everything, to restrict everything by not transmitting the data? or is it possible that the data is already available in america, where it is very easy to access because of the privacy laws? but that means we have no influence here at all. the question is, what influence does the european union have on data that is being played over and is available elsewhere? this is certainly a complicated procedure, especially for swift. but this should be an opportunity to discuss and negotiate the principle that it is important that we in the european union stand up for and defend values, and that this balance must be maintained. this does not mean that we are always united in the fight against international terrorism. but all this must be done in balance. commissioner frattini has made this very clear, putting the safety of individuals, but also legal protection and a very high level of data protection, as we have in this european union, first. i can only assure you that these many facets which you have mentioned will also be included in the forthcoming negotiations, both with regard to the pnr and, of course, with regard to the swift issue.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will answer this parliament, as is my custom, very frankly, even addressing the points on which i do not share your opinion. firstly, the libe committee knows this very well, mr cavada is here. i have never, under any circumstances, denied or concealed any information, including confidential information, which i could not have passed on to the committee and therefore to parliament. i intend to continue to do so, as i said in my introduction. i do not therefore share the view, which is rather an intentional process, that the european institutions, and parliament in particular, are in danger of being excluded from this political process. you know very well that i am in favour of your political involvement even when the treaties do not allow it. i've said it a thousand times and i'll say it again: we will find a way, and that is why i welcomed president cavada's idea of even arranging an agreement with the american congress to follow the political stages of this negotiation. it is also clear that this discussion has affected euro-atlantic relations, contrary to what some have claimed, and i am convinced that if europe is to be a global political actor, it must strike a global balance between the right - which i personally consider rather a duty - to prosecute and investigate terrorists and the duty to protect fundamental rights, such as the confidentiality of personal data. it is therefore obvious that if we, as the president-in-office of the council has just said, want to achieve an overall balance with the united states of america, we want to do so because we are convinced of the centrality of euro-atlantic relations, not only in relation to the past of european history but, above all, in relation to the present and the future of this history. as many of you know, i have given detailed answers on a number of occasions on certain subjects, especially to the libe committee, but i speak to parliament when i am invited to do so and in the committees that invite me. for example, in connection with the push system, i announced in december that, as regards the pnr, the testing of this system would begin by december and that was the case. the trial has been initiated between the us administration, customer border protection system, and amadeus. there is a technical aspect to the request for ad hoc data but this is a technical problem while the testing of the push system has been started, as we were promised. as regards the number of data, i have listened with interest to what many of you have said about the 34 data currently covered by the pnr agreement. i can say quite clearly that, as far as my role in the negotiations is concerned, i intend to ask for a reduction in the number of data in question, but i do not do so because i share the view that the americans are asking us for too much data. if all 34 of these pieces of data were useful in pursuing terrorists, i wouldn't be afraid to tell you that we need 34. instead, the really useful data are probably those 19 that have been indicated, that is, a much smaller number. however, believe me, it is not the principle of numbers that makes the difference in the data to be processed, but the principle of the usefulness of the data, and it is in this sense that i intend to conduct my negotiating action. i'm not going to go along with the idea that if we go from 34 data to 15, we've done a good job. we may have done a bad job if some of the data that we've excluded has some of the data that could prevent a terrorist attack. i have no doubt about that . i am absolutely convinced that the main objective is to make the system work. who has access to the data? on what grounds? how much data and for how long? these are the points of an agreement which we shall be negotiating shortly, informing parliament as we have said. ladies and gentlemen, many of you feel that passenger information is the missing criterion in the pnr system. it is conceivable that, in the absence of a consensus between the two parties, no agreement will be reached by the end of july. on a purely imaginative level, i envision a very simple solution: the commission has also proposed that the united states should provide a paper to be signed by the passenger when he purchases a ticket to the united states, informing him that his data will be processed in a certain way. if that were to happen - and i sincerely hope it never happens - we would have guaranteed passenger information, but without an agreement at european level, passenger rights would be limited to the private sphere of the air transport contract. this is an eventuality which we must prevent by all means, which is why we must strive to achieve a new european agreement. the alternative would be very simple: i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. but we would lose a european role which they have already played and which we are urged to play again. that is why we need to renegotiate, even if we reduce the number of data, provided that the reduction of data does not affect the fight against terrorism. i have informed the libe committee that, as regards the ats system, i have received written assurances from the united states of america that the pnr agreement is being respected. in a speech in this house i was reproached for not having checked the veracity of this statement. if i had the power to investigate the behaviour of the united states of america from brussels on american soil, i would have powers that no european or national authority has ever had or ever will have. everything is possible except to ascertain, as i am asked to do in the above speech, the veracity of that letter. when i am formally told that the rule is respected, i am obliged, until proven otherwise, to believe that to be the truth. that is what you do between allies, unless you have evidence to the contrary - which i frankly do not have, and i must say this with absolute sincerity - because otherwise we open a permanent investigation into every single reference in the letters we receive from the united states of america. mr roure asked me if we could pass on to parliament the information on the negotiating mandate. you know this is classified information: however, i repeat, even if it is classified, we will find a way of informing parliament, that is, a way of providing political information without violating a rule laid down in the treaties, according to which classified information ('eu restricted') cannot be published. this is the political solution i propose: if the treaty is amended to provide for a mechanism for communicating classified documents to parliament, i will apply those rules without fear. the aim is to overcome the obstacle of not being able to inform parliament in the presence of classified documents: i intend to keep you informed. many people have called for a framework agreement, mr president, and i believe that this is the right way forward. the framework agreement on data transmission is exactly what we have started to work on with the presidency, creating a joint working group to deal with certain issues relating to the processing of personal data, thus leaving aside the swift and pnr cases, which have parallel routes. we believe that the time has come to conclude a euro-atlantic political agreement with the united states - a framework agreement - on the processing of personal data, and we intend to work on this agreement to identify the types of data to be transmitted, for what reasons and for how long. however, ladies and gentlemen, there is also one point which has not been dealt with in this debate and which needs to be dealt with: how can we preserve the confidentiality of the technical information which is part of this agreement and the disclosure of which, as a means of investigation, would be of great benefit to the criminals? it is necessary that such information be kept confidential. so there is another problem, because it is clear that if we reveal the actual control mechanisms of suspected terrorists, we would be giving them a powerful tool. can a solution be found? i am absolutely convinced of that, but we need a common political will. i would like to conclude with one final thought: this does not justify the individual breaches of european law and the legislative shortcomings in the swift case. you will remember that when no one was talking about a european agreement, i spoke to the libe committee about the need for such an agreement because it is much better to fill a legislative vacuum with a european rule than to leave it to each member state to regulate itself as it pleases. the swift case is emblematic: i have received a reply from only seven of the 27 member states. this is a symptom that the issue must be addressed at european level. i therefore feel that a political agreement is essential and that without parliament such an agreement would have less legitimacy. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. but the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the terrorists, not the united states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. since it is already the scheduled time to resume the session, there will be no suspension. i am grateful for the generous availability and professional responsibility of interpreters; this parliament could not function without them. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ries, and also the alternative rapporteurs, on the work they have done. this initiative by the commission to draw up a green paper on healthy diet and physical activity in relation to the prevention of obesity has been really very well received by all the actors involved in the process, which reflects the multifaceted nature of the problem and the need to take measures involving society as a whole, all of which mrs ries has very well captured in her report. in this context, i would like to point out that the european food industry is involved in numerous initiatives and specific commitments in various areas of the promotion of healthy diets and lifestyles, within the framework of the european platform for action on food, physical activity and health, launched by the european commission in 2005. these efforts to offer consumers an ever wider and more varied range of products to meet their needs are increasingly important, and the effort of industry to innovate, which will ultimately benefit the consumer, must therefore be further encouraged. this commitment by responsible european industry is directly linked to the promotion of healthy diets and lifestyles and is reflected in some examples of self-regulation and marketing. i would like to point out that in spain the industry has signed an agreement with the ministry of health and consumer affairs, and the agreement is working very well. it is about promoting nutritional education for consumers, healthy diets and, above all, the practice of physical activity, which are very important tools for controlling obesity. but i want to point out that there is no good or bad food in itself; everything can and should be eaten. there are healthy diets and there are not so healthy diets, it all depends on the variety. we must insist on using the car less, the remote control, video games, etc., and forget that everything is going to be solved by prohibitions and regulations. and i want to point out something else: we should not demonize fat people, because if we insist too much on this we will fall into another problem: that of anorexia, which is much more serious, if you will, especially for young people.
vice-president of the commission. i think this report is a very interesting attempt to deal with a very difficult subject. mrs wallis is to be congratulated on trying to see a way into a general european solution to the differences in limitation periods as they relate, as she just said, to actions for damages for personal injury and death. this is of particular concern to citizens who have the misfortune to suffer road traffic accidents in countries other than those in which they live. but it could also apply in other matters, such as medical claims and product liability. having said that, the area of limitation is a complex matter, as the rapporteur also acknowledged. it is very closely linked to prescription, which is not dealt with in the report. any further work on the subject would need to deal with prescription, since the majority of european legal systems solve the problem of time limits through the use of prescription rather than limitation periods. the uk system uses both. i am ready, i am open to examining this question in the future, taking into account the different legal nature of limitation and prescription, and the fact that the treaty base proposed excludes harmonisation of internal law, which, in large measure, is what is implied by the report. i have to be very frank in pointing out that we will also have to take into account the priorities established in our current work programme, which will also have to be integrated in line with the human resources available in the european commission. that said, i can see that this very new point put by the rapporteur should be left open for further discussions.
on behalf of the pse group. i will speak in spanish and this is the first time i have spoken in spanish, but i think the commissioner understands my language perfectly. i will tell you that in the report, in the spanish text, it says 'recommendations to the commission on limitation in crossborder disputes', that is to say, it does not speak of a statute of limitations, because, as far as i know from anglo-saxon law, the expression statute of limitation, at least in spanish, is translated as 'prescription'. i know that the italians are very fine, very strict jurists, and this is probably a subject which would be worth discussing in greater detail, although i agree that the origins of the two institutions are different. in any case, i think that mrs wallis' report is a report in which the european parliament wants to push the commission in a certain direction. we are not asking the commission, nor is the report asking it, to launch a legislative proposal quickly, but i think that some of the steps - for example, the one mentioned in paragraph 1, where he talks about the need to carry out an inquiry into what is happening - should be taken. at the moment there are, as mrs wallis has said, thousands, or hundreds of thousands of people, who are crossing national borders, and i think mr frattini was right on another point, and that is that we should not only look at accidents or incidents across borders, but at all those cases where a person, as a result of a series of situations - for example, medical treatment or stay - suffers damage in one country and the problem of prescription arises in another country. i think we should make the most of the possibilities and at the moment, probably - and perhaps mrs kauppi is right - it is not yet time to go into details, but at least the commission should understand that the elected representatives of the peoples of the european union here think that this is a subject on which it would be interesting for the commission to take some kind of initiative. and this kind of initiative, as the rapporteur proposes, should start precisely with a real knowledge of the situation, so that we can get an idea of what the real situation is and what the possibilities for legislative development in this area are.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mrs flasarová and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality on this excellent report. it represents a comprehensive and balanced overview of the problems women and young girls face in education and later in their professional life. while the fight against all forms of discrimination is a core principle of the european union, the fight against gender discrimination has gone a step further. all commission departments must take gender differences into account when preparing proposals. in the field of education, there has been a positive evolution, as your report also states. in the european union there is no discrimination in access to education for young girls, and girls often achieve better marks than boys. nonetheless, there are serious problems in some parts of the population. the report points to vulnerable groups where gender differences may combine with other factors to exclude women and girls from the full benefit of education. our first priority is to attend to the needs of these groups and to point to effective solutions. our work will focus on efficiency and equity in education and training systems, because gender discrimination is a component of a wider social and cultural problem and requires wide-ranging measures. in 2007 we will produce two major communications. the first is on pre-primary education. early-start programmes produce short-term results, but they also build lifelong learning capacities and develop the values that reject discrimination. the second communication this year will address education and immigration. immigration contributes to european growth and competitiveness. however, pisa results show that immigrant children tend to have lower school results. in some cultures young girls face specific handicaps. in the new lifelong learning programme, equality of opportunities is a transversal priority. its first call for proposals has just been published. the progress report on education and training 2010 for the whole decade will take another look at the benchmark on science, mathematics and technology and at the gender balance in these careers. i am happy to report that the initial target has been achieved – actually this is the only target out of five benchmarks in which we are progressing quite well in the 27 eu member states. my services and those of my colleague, mr potočnik, in research, have worked together for some time to fight gender discrimination in scientific and technical careers. this work can benefit other sectors and we will build on it. in the field of the information society, the digital divide is growing. as your report points out, women can benefit from new technology. my colleague, mrs reding, is leading an initiative on e-inclusion, which takes gender issues into account, and the european social fund has a strong tradition in fighting gender discrimination. the regulations for the period 2007-2013 can fund actions in all the aspects pinpointed in your report. these are considerable opportunities for education and training that are provided for by the structural funds. let me thank you once again for your report.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs flasarová on the good work she has done on such an important issue as equal access to education, which is the basis for us to have equal opportunities for men and women in the world of work and in most areas of our public and private life. among all the obstacles still in place mentioned in the report, i would like to mention three in particular. first, the digital gender gap. the commission, together with the member states and in the framework of the lisbon strategy, must take the appropriate measures to ensure that women can access and benefit from information and communication technologies on an equal footing; because if europe is to be a knowledge-based economy, information and communication technologies play a fundamental role in our strategy for employment and competitiveness and women must be there on an equal footing with men. in this regard, it is important to highlight the lower presence of women in the fields of education, science and technology. secondly, and like the previous speaker, i would like to refer to the higher school drop-out rate for girls, and it is therefore recommended that the member states take measures to ensure that both boys and girls remain in school and complete their education. the commission has also taken the necessary steps to remove the obstacles to women's access to higher education and to lifelong learning. and thirdly, in accordance with the declaration on the characteristics of sport adopted by the nice council in december 2000, i would like to stress that more attention should be paid to the social, educational and cultural functions of sport and, therefore, to the need to eliminate discrimination against women also in the field of sport; and to denounce, as we have done on other occasions, situations such as the wimbledon prizes, which are clearly discriminatory towards women.
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome the report on eu relations with the pacific islands, and i especially want to congratulate the rapporteur, mr deva, on his results. when my colleague, commissioner michel, took the initiative to have the first ever eu strategy for our relations with the pacific acp states prepared, he did so because these countries are becoming increasingly important and because they are facing difficult challenges. we can benefit from closer contacts with the pacific, as the region is of global significance and we can contribute significantly to its development. parliament’s report clearly reflects this and it points out important avenues forward. these countries are mostly remote, relatively poor, small and have become independent fairly recently. most have strong population growth. they have a difficult balancing act to perform between tradition and the pressures of modernity. globalisation is an opportunity for them, but also carries risks for their cultural heritage. in many countries in the pacific, democracy has difficult growth conditions and, at the same time, the pacific needs high-quality governance to move forward. for this reason, your commitment to their democracies, international exposure and contacts is very important. they have significant natural resources, such as oil, gas, fish and tropical wood, as well as fantastic biodiversity. the pacific ocean is so important that it must be considered as a global public good. this gives the pacific island countries opportunities on the international scene and prospects for the future. however, climate change threatens many of the islands, even whole countries. the overseas countries and territories serve as bridges between europe and the pacific and between our cultures. where the pacific countries have needs and we have comparative advantages, there we propose to assist. we have identified the ‘blue-green’ theme as the cornerstone of the focus on the sustainable management of the region’s natural resources. in addition, we have committed ourselves to a strengthened political relationship, more focused development action and more efficient aid delivery. in our communication we foresaw that the pacific countries would face more problems in the future if a number of significant trends were not reversed. last year alone there were serious security problems and political crises in the solomon islands, timor-leste, tonga and fiji. the problems are so difficult and severe than many of the pacific acp countries cannot handle them alone. for this reason we are working with our australian and new zealand friends and, as mr deva said, with stable conditions we can develop tourism further in the pacific. parliament has, of course, noticed the council conclusions regarding the pacific strategy, which confirmed that the eu will strengthen its partnership with this region. a number of member states follow the pacific closely. the eu has an important role to play in the pacific. your report demonstrates this very clearly and we count on your continued support and solidarity for these really extraordinary countries.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating this evening the report by mr deva on relations between the european union and the pacific islands - strategy for a strengthened partnership. the committee on fisheries has issued and adopted an opinion on this matter, of which i was rapporteur. i congratulate mr deva on the work he has done and i am glad that at least part of the proposals of the committee on fisheries are to be incorporated in the text of the resolution. the pacific is one of the richest fishing grounds in the world, and the european tuna fleet has been operating in these waters for some time thanks to bilateral agreements with the countries in the area. the state of the resources, as indicated by scientific studies, is entirely satisfactory, and the financial assistance from the european union represents an important source of income for the countries of the area. relations with these countries must therefore be strengthened. the interest is mutual. we can help to promote measures for the sustainable management of fishery resources in those waters, and it would be very positive for eu tuna fishermen to make further progress, as the committee on fisheries called for in its opinion, towards a network of tuna agreements similar to that which already exists in indian ocean waters. the strengthening of the partnership with this region of the world cannot therefore forget the fisheries sector.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i would like to protest once again, because fishing is always done at night and by flock; today it is happening again. i would like to thank mr arnaoutakis for his excellent report. given the time, i will be brief and highlight three aspects which i think are important about gabon and about fisheries agreements in general. first of all, i must once again note the delay with which the commission has presented this matter to the european parliament and stress that the european union will be paying the first instalment of the financial compensation to gabon with a delay of at least six months. this is unacceptable and the european union should not encourage such delays, especially when it comes to third countries with such weak economies. i think we have reached an agreement with commissioner borg and i hope that in the future these delays will not happen again. secondly, i would also like to highlight the financial aspects of fisheries agreements in general, of which this particular case is a very prominent example. there are many voices here - and i feel that they are not the most critical of fisheries agreements - who complain that the fisheries sector does not collaborate or even contributes to the financing of these agreements. in this case it is clear that the fisheries sector, in the gabon agreement, is going to pay almost 20% more than the european union pays from the community budget. this should be enough to silence those who say that the fisheries sector does not contribute to the financing of the agreements. finally, mr president, i would also like to make a request to the commission which we have been repeating in the committee on fisheries in connection with the agreements: the possible participation, in the interests of greater transparency, of members of this parliament as observers in the joint committees which monitor the implementation of the fisheries agreements. we have already achieved this for the regional fisheries organisations and it would be good if we could participate in the joint committees in the future. we asked the council presidency the other day to do so and i hope that commissioner figel will convey this request to the european commission so that, between the three institutions, we can achieve greater participation by members; i think that, even if only because of the time we work, we deserve to be observers in these committees.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i believe this is the first time i have had the opportunity to speak in your presence and i congratulate you on your appointment. i am sure you will carry out your duties with the independence that is your characteristic. secondly, i would like to thank mr lehne for the report he has drawn up. i think you've done a good job, but i'd like to point out a couple of problems we have. firstly, i do not think that the procedure adopted at the moment by the committee on legal affairs, i.e. reporting on a legislative initiative with an annex which has not been sufficiently discussed, is a good legal technique. we are talking about an initial stage of legislative proposals. what we are doing is asking the commission to consider the possibility of submitting a report, and i think at this stage we should confine ourselves to the first part of the resolution. i think that the annex to the motion for a resolution has not been sufficiently discussed, and therefore we cannot consider that these conclusions in the annex really reflect the will of the committee on legal affairs. secondly, i think mr mccreevy has done very well in pointing out that this is not a matter of legislating for the sake of legislating. 'the failure we have had with regard to the european company should make us reflect on this' and therefore the impact study is credited as being necessary. on the other hand, it is clear that we in this house feel the need to draw up a statute to enable small businesses to operate and that we should make an effort to achieve this. in doing so, we encounter some difficulties, for example the problem of worker participation. we have had discussions on the text of recital h. there have been some reservations from my political group about the way in which mr lehne has drafted it. i have the impression that the final formula proposed by mr lehne is satisfactory and i hope that my group will be able to approve it. in short, i think mr lehne's proposal is a good one. we are not asking the commission to accept it, but we are asking it to consider this possibility. i hope that mr mccreevy will do his utmost to ensure that the wishes of this parliament are fulfilled in this respect.
the reason why we have put our oral question on the renegotiation of the public procurement agreement, which will be concluded in march next year, is that we are at a crucial juncture. in addition, in view of the importance of this agreement and its duration, which will again be 10 or 12 years, it was necessary to raise it here in this parliament with the commission. the public procurement markets are becoming increasingly important in the world, because of their volume, which can reach up to 25% of world gdp, and also because for the european union they represent a comparative advantage, since in this sector, at the moment, we can be competitive, as i say, against other competencies that we are suffering from other countries in other sectors, such as agriculture and industry. if we are to adapt to globalisation, it is therefore important to develop the sectors in which the european union can be internationally competitive and thus create fair and favourable conditions for european businesses. these markets are, in most countries, reserved for domestic firms, which constitutes one of the main non-tariff barriers to international trade. there are two aspects of this renegotiation which i would particularly like to stress. firstly, the geographical extension of this agreement, with the entry of important players such as china or the developing countries, and secondly, the need to ensure that there are fair, balanced and reciprocal conditions for companies from different countries. as regards the first point, the greater the geographical coverage of the public procurement agreement, the greater its validity. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of korea. let us not forget that china has committed itself to opening up its public procurement market - which remains largely closed or with unacceptable requirements for european companies - and to launch accession negotiations to the public procurement agreement in 2008, after its accession to the world trade organisation. secondly, as regards fair and reciprocal conditions, we must remember that the public markets of the european union are already very open to international competition. this has considerable advantages for contracting public entities, as this openness means that they have more choice and therefore a greater chance of finding goods and services of higher quality at lower cost. but on the other hand, let us not forget that european companies may be thus disadvantaged in cases where their foreign competitors are preferred. the union's trade policy is to open up international markets in all their aspects. the solution is not to close public markets to foreign companies. that is why we have a legitimate right to ask that our companies enjoy similar conditions of access to public markets to those of our main trading partners, those whose companies already enjoy access to our public markets. however, this is not the case at present, with the commitments made by our trading partners being very limited compared to those of the european union. commissioner mandelson also referred to this imbalance in his communication on a competitive europe in a globalised economy. it suggests the possibility of introducing specific restrictions on access to certain parts of the union's public markets, in order to allow our trading partners to offer reciprocal opening of their markets. all that said, i think it is timely - and more than appropriate - that this oral question be put to the european commission on behalf of the committee on international trade, so that we can know what its strategy is in this renegotiation of the agreement, which i stress is at a crucial juncture, because of the need to reach an agreement in the coming weeks. how will the commission defend the interests of european companies in the markets of sectors where we are highly competitive, such as transport, energy or public works, in the context of the objective of continuing on the path of greater commercial openness, and not the other way around? and in this same context, how will the situation of european smes, which are already at a disadvantage compared with large companies, be considered in relation to the situation of other smes in other countries whose governments reserve a part of their public contracts for them, as is the case in the united states? given the lack of reciprocity, the disadvantageous situation for european smes and the importance they have in the main objectives of the so-called lisbon strategy, we ask the commission to demand that the other parties to the negotiation give up their own exceptions or, if this is not possible, that they accept that we apply a similar exception for the benefit of european smes. in any case, let us achieve that reciprocity which is currently working against european companies. i therefore ask the commission to inform us of the state of these negotiations, particularly on the issues i have highlighted and to which the text of our question refers; and also to take note of the concerns expressed by the european parliament and to take them into account in its negotiations in geneva.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank all members for their comments. i attach the utmost importance to public procurement. proper, fair and transparent procedures are crucial not only for businesses that want to bid for projects but also for authorities that would be able to save themselves and taxpayers huge amounts of money if they applied the procedures properly. getting commitments from our trading partners to open their procurement market for european bidders is essential. our companies have something to offer. they are competitive, but too often they are simply not allowed or invited to make a bid. smes benefit from public procurement. they already have a big share of the market, but i do not think that setting aside quotas or giving preferential treatment is the answer. if we were to do that, so would more of our trading partners and the result would be that european companies would lose out. i believe that all sides are best served by open markets. our smes are dynamic and strong. they will benefit as well. mrs mann asked to be kept informed. i shall ask my officials to keep her committee closely informed. they will attend meetings of the committee and will answer your questions about the details of the negotiations. various members referred to special arrangements for smes and that this should be part of our negotiating stance. as i have said, i do not agree. i agree with a lot of what mr kamall said, and his observation that member states themselves could do a lot to assist their smes in the area of public procurement without contravening any rules at all. if they unbundled some of their contracts and cut out a lot of the bureaucracy, that would benefit smes substantially, and would not require the setting-aside of quotas. where i would disagree is with the conclusion drawn by some people that the way to do this better for smes is to set aside quotas. mr kamall also raised the issue of the united states having a small business act and an agency to deal with these matters. however, the figures show that, either in volume or in quantity terms, smes in europe get a far higher percentage of contracts than they do in the united states. that should be of some interest to people. therefore, i say – and people are entitled to disagree with my views on this – that public procurement is all about competing: the best goods and services for the lowest amount. that means value for money. reserving parts of the market underlines this. we were also discussing smes in an earlier debate this morning. members said that smes need opportunities. i certainly agree. however, protectionism is not the answer. but, of course, we will not be naive: we expect our trading partners to open their markets as well.
we shall adjourn the sitting to resume it at 11 a.m. with the solemn session, at which we shall receive the president of bulgaria. (the sitting was suspended at 10.25 a.m. and resumed at 11 a.m.)
mr president, i would like to express my support for the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the gabonese republic, as well as for other similar agreements concluded with other countries of the so-called acp (africa, caribbean and pacific) and with a few other states. these agreements are based on the principle of reciprocal cooperation and are part of the partnership approach being applied to the external dimension of our common fisheries policy. through these agreements we achieve a twofold objective: firstly, we ensure the protection of the interests of the union's high-altitude fishing fleet and, secondly, we improve the conditions for achieving sustainable fishing in the waters of the associated countries. in this respect, i should like to conclude by stressing that the union - and therefore our high-sea fleet in the face of others that are even operating illegally - is committed to ensuring the sustainability of global fishing activities and has accepted the un food and agriculture organisation's code of conduct for responsible fisheries. we must promote this and other agreements, because they favour the development of the countries with which we are associated.
on behalf of the pse group. i would first of all like to congratulate mrs brepoels and the other members on their efforts in the preparation of this report, the result of which i consider to be positive, thanks to the work of this house, which has greatly improved it, to the efforts made by the commission in helping us - i speak on behalf of mrs sornosa - and also, ultimately, to the understanding of the council in the conciliation committee. i have no doubt that this proposal will be useful as a basic tool for the formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of environmental policies at all levels and of policies or activities which may have a direct or indirect impact on the environment. we also believe that it is appropriate to base this community infrastructure on the spatial data infrastructures already established and managed by the member states, fully applying the principle of subsidiarity, especially when member states have several levels of public administrations, as is the case in many cases, namely in my own country, spain. network services are necessary for sharing spatial data between different levels of public authority in the community. such services should make it possible to locate, transform, visualize and download spatial data, as well as to access spatial data and e-commerce services. this tool should be used to exploit to the full the benefits and opportunities that the globalisation of data and services offers to governments, private enterprise, academia, society as a whole and, very importantly, to citizens. i think it's essential because it brings us up to date on something that is already commonplace thanks to the internet and the information that is available through this medium. i also think it is crucial that it is designed as a tool for providing public information, and in this sense we hope that inspire will be a complement to public sector information and the directives on access to environmental information, adopted under the aarhus convention that we approved not long ago, and that it will address a number of issues that are not covered by those directives, such as data sharing between public authorities and interoperability issues. finally, i should like to express my satisfaction at the agreement reached by the council on free access to the service in most cases and on the chapter on confidentiality of data, which will finally coincide with the provisions laid down in the aarhus convention on access to information from the public on the environment.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, i want to thank caroline jackson not only because she has done a good job, which is what is conventionally said here, but because, in such a complex and complicated matter, i think she has done two things which are the ideal of a good parliamentarian. on the one hand it has listened to everyone and to all countries, it has listened to industry, but it has also listened to those who are most directly affected and, on the other hand, it has tried to apply a flexible and open approach so that the waste directive does not become a problem but solves existing problems. the previous legislation has largely solved problems, but it has also created problems which have led the court of justice to issue more judgments on the subject of waste than in any other field, and it has created a tremendous problem for the municipalities, who are ultimately the ones who have to apply the rule, who are small, who are very uneven across europe and who are many hundreds of thousands. i therefore commend and applaud your flexibility and support you fully. i also support and welcome amendment no 112 on biodegradable waste, because we are trying to create a society in which it is a question of minimizing the use of resources and, at the same time, making the most of what we are using, through recycling and recovery. compost, or what we call "waste-based compost", is one of the oldest forms of compost on earth. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner which is not in keeping with the environment. i am the rapporteur for the waste directive and i commend this amendment precisely because, while there is no specific directive, which there must be, for biodegradable waste, while a directive is being drawn up on compost, which is not on the horizon or in the strategy of the european commission at the moment - which has left it aside in this policy of less legislation - it is necessary to frame this issue so that there is a great deal of discipline in the treatment of waste and, in turn, so that farmers can use this medium with full confidence. thank you very much and i think flexibility is a criterion that only allows viability.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs bozkurt on her work and on her follow-up of the situation of women in turkey. thanks to your good work, the issue of women's rights is on the table at the same level as other policies. i think you are making history with this, mrs bozkurt, congratulations! i have been following this process very closely, your first report, the very interesting working meetings of a delegation from the commission on women's rights that we had in istanbul and ankara, and now this second report, and i have to say that i agree with you that at this moment we must ensure that the legislation on women's rights is not abrogated. although improvements in legislation in this area have been generally successful, it is urgent that the right environment be created in which legislative reforms can be implemented. it is very difficult to move forward if the important changes introduced in the legislation are not implemented in practice. women must be able to perceive in their daily lives how their situation is improving. it is not just a question of their rights, but also of the practical means of denouncing their breaches. only by accelerating the practical implementation of legislative reforms throughout the territory can the maintenance of the new legislation on women's rights be ensured. i would also like to stress that the turkish authorities' willingness to deal with cases of violence against women and to accept that positive action measures can be used to combat gender inequalities is particularly significant. finally, i would like to stress the government's willingness to engage in dialogue and to coordinate better with women's organisations active in the field of gender equality, and i think it is very appropriate that the rapporteur should ask the european commission to help facilitate this cooperation. once again, congratulations to you, mrs bozkurt.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commissioner's report is translated into french. on 4 october 2006, the european commission approved a regulation amending the rules governing security at airports. she certainly had the best of intentions. but it has acted in secret, commissioner, by including in these standards an annex which has been declared secret, and which is therefore hidden from the citizens to whom it is addressed and whose lives are directly affected. this text, with its measures and their considerable impact on the whole of the european union, was drawn up in just one week. the european commission therefore had a week to decide on all the necessary measures. within a week, the european commission made a law binding on millions of people, based on a secret meeting of the air safety committee, which took place on 27 september 2006. the only information that was given to the citizens about this was through a press release. the citizens were informed of the standard directly, and exclusively, through a press release published by the commission. and again the press release says in point 7: "and acknowledges that this measure is based on the american experience". now that you have the interpretation, i'll go to spanish. this regulation lays down exceptions, the commission told the press. but, as the regulation is secret, no citizen can apply these exceptions if he needs to and if he has to face someone who abuses authority. in other words, the european commission has created a legal rule which imposes obligations on citizens, which limits rights, but which, because of its secret character, cannot be applied by any court throughout the european union. the press releases and information pamphlets, mr. commissioner, are still not admissible in court. at the same time, the very form in which these rules were adopted has left them inapplicable to the member states, which are applying them in an absolutely chaotic way throughout the european union, a chaotic form which is, in practice, arbitrary. each airport does what it thinks is right. in some places, a liquid cheese is a threat to our security, in other places it is not. in some places, a pastel relleno de crema is a security threat, in other places it's not. what is a threat on the flight from madrid to barcelona is not a threat on the flight from barcelona to madrid. what is a threat in zurich because they also apply its rules, or in heathrow, or in charles de gaulle, is not a threat in the airport of milan-malpensa. it is supposed, señor comisario, that there are exceptions to this rule, for example, for transit passengers also announced in the famous note, in paragraph 16, but, in practice, nobody knows how to apply those exceptions to transit passengers. there are supposed to be exceptions for medicines, but nobody knows how to apply the exceptions to medicines. and, among other things, nothing is said about medicines that do not require a prescription. in its press release it says that el agua está prohibida porque es muy difícil distinguirla de los demás líquidos. (the water is forbidden because it is very difficult to distinguish it from other liquids.) are there any bombs that can be drunk, señor comisario? we don't know. you have created an absolutely arbitrary system, which sometimes seems absurd, in the face of which citizens have no mechanism of defence, in the face of the absolute power of a private agent in uniform in the front. without defense, in the literal sense, the passengers have no rights. obedient and silent or annul your voyage. mr commissioner, citizens have an almost blind faith that what the authorities do - you are the authorities, we are the authorities - is for their good and for their safety, but we, the members of parliament, have the obligation - not only the right, but the obligation - to ensure that the fear of terrorism is not used as a pretext for restrictions on freedom, which can be sterile if they are not well founded. the european commission has no power delegated by this parliament to legislate in secret and impose obligations on citizens, without any kind of judicial control in its application. and that power doesn't even exist in the comitology framework. and so i ask, and other groups ask too, what impact analysis has the commission done? what powers do you think you have, according to the comitologia, to carry out what you have applied here? what is the theoretical and real basis of studies, reports? what other security models has the commission used? mr commissioner, these measures seriously damage, rather than improve, the image of security and, in general, the image of the european union.
on behalf of the green group, mr commissioner, i am sorry, but you still do not convince me and many other people. i think the underlying problem is the european construction project as such. the speech you have made to us here can somehow be perceived by many people - and this is what worries me most - as a kind of enlightened european despotism. this is very damaging to the european project and, above all, to those of us who are genuinely pro-european in this context. the subject of the regulation we are discussing at the moment is not only important because it makes it difficult for those travelling in airports, or for the security service which has to enforce it, but, fundamentally, because it has followed mechanisms which - i insist and i ratify - are of dubious democratic legitimacy. in this context, i am still not clear on the underlying reasons for this legislation, i am still not clear on how the commission justifies the violation of the democratic principle of publicity of the law, and i am still not clear on how the commission hopes to convince european citizens that this type of legislation is the best thing for european democracy.
mr president, according to the lisbon strategy, we have to build a welfare state all around the european union that has to be a model in our globalised world. we should appeal to a social europeanism to make europe attractive for citizens, because life here should be better than in other parts of the world. a good standard of living is not achieved only by economic growth but also by high educational standards, lifelong learning, cultural consumption and so on. on the other hand, we have to reduce global warming without damaging development in developing countries. we can do this in our part of the world by improving research. in developing countries, it can be done by spreading education and development aid, always related to improved educational standards. i think that a good combination of development aid and higher standards of education is the key to building a better globalised world.
mr president, i thank mr lehne and mr lambsdorff, and especially my colleagues, mr hughes and mr goebbels, for all the work of coordination and cooperation involved in this exercise, which, in its second year, is already making its way into the political consciousness and will of the member states and our institutions. this is particularly true of the preparatory meetings between the european parliament and the national parliaments. it was at this last meeting last week that the recovery of european transport, logistics and infrastructure emerged, still timidly but firmly, as a policy which must be pursued if the european economy is to be able to meet the challenges of globalisation with confidence. this globalisation is reaching europe by ship to our ports, by air to our airports, by road and, still too rarely, by rail and water. the commission has also been active in the field of safety and health at work, and has been involved in the development of the european safety and health system. in addition, environmental, social and security challenges need to be addressed. the german presidency's initiative facilitated the transport council's commitment to this end, with the initiative to include transport, with its four key priorities, in the proposal for the lisbon strategy this spring. and mr harbour agreed to include it as the third paragraph of the conclusions of the working party on the internal market and innovation at its meeting last week. that is why i ask the drafters and coordinators of the resolution in particular to incorporate amendment no 10, which includes this very important sector - transport, logistics and trans-european networks - as the basis for the lisbon strategy.
with regard to the spring summit, mr president-in-office, i understand that the speech this morning by the president, by the chancellor, is also fully on the march agenda. after the madrid meeting of the 18 'friends of the constitution', with the two who have announced that they will ratify it and those who have yet to express themselves 'there are clamorous silences', i think it is important to support what the president-in-office of the council has said with a remark, and that is that if something has to be done, the pen has to be used more than the scissors, because defending only the substance is dangerous, especially if you start to prune. i would point out from the democratic point of view and from the political point of view in the energy sector, in view of the policies we have to develop, that there is a serious danger in reducing, because from the democratic point of view - and this parliament is very interested in this - we will go from having 35 legal bases to acting on 85, and that is of enormous and decisive importance. secondly, in relation to the lisbon strategy, i would like to introduce an element which has not been mentioned here, namely the successful conclusion of the doha round. we can talk about climate change, we can talk about energy and the social model, but if we do not reach a positive conclusion in the doha round - which obviously cannot integrate these elements directly, which must be taken into account and put on the agenda of our international relations - i believe that we alone cannot solve problems which have a global dimension in the world. i believe that the european union must pursue an active policy which includes these elements, given the importance of the conclusion of the doha round, which is on the agenda of the german presidency but which, i understand, is spoken of too little.
mr president of the council, madam commissioner, vice-president of the commission, the lisbon strategy is the launching of the great european project, once we have got the euro, to achieve greater well-being and, above all, employment levels and participation of europeans in the labour force, especially women, an ambitious project for the year 2010. we were marked by a path of openness - 'opening up europe', a path to liberalize strategic sectors, communications, transport, energy, financial services, and ultimately to modernise labour relations too, in order to achieve through social agreements a modernisation of labour markets which would make it more accessible, especially for young people and the longterm unemployed, to find jobs. we are now experiencing a recovery in economic growth and this summit, which will be held next march and which will review the lisbon strategy, has the duty to confirm to europeans that the economic recovery of 2006 is not a passing fact but can be strengthened within the framework of the global economy and of that recovery. for that we will need a lot of political initiative, a lot of political capacity to tackle those reforms which cannot wait any longer - and the house has mentioned energy, the environment this afternoon - in short, the sum of reforms which must restore the confidence of europeans in their own project. there's no trust without a job. what is holding back the great european project is the inability to grow, as mrs wallström said, it is ultimately low growth and insufficient job creation. those of us who feel deeply european believe that there is still time to recover this process and not let it die in itself.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to express my gratitude for the many suggestions which are also summarized in your resolution which is still to be adopted. we have focused on some important issues, namely those inherent in the lisbon strategy: growth, employment, but also - and this has only been added since gothenburg - sustainability. the last contribution by mrs prets has made the question clear - and i can confirm this from my own perspective of the last few years - who is responsible for lisbon. it was clear that in many areas there was coordination, but that this would have to be implemented at national level. however, and this leads to the other point which has also been raised by various members today, there are issues where everyone can say that we cannot do this as a national member state alone, we need the european level for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we will also be dealing with this at the council meeting in the spring, which will be devoted to the development of renewable energies. this is also an important contribution to environmental protection for the first time, and at the same time it opens up a new field of employment. it has been confirmed that jobs are created in this sector, which in turn also offers the possibility of transporting products outside the european union. it is not enough for europe to lead the way in this area - energy saving and climate protection - we must also convince others of this. but we can always convince others only if we ourselves lead by example. i would like to stress another important point, although it will not be the focus of the meeting. the european union has already made a number of calls for energy solidarity and for talks with russia. that's right, i did. but if i want to achieve this security, then i also need to negotiate with russia, and then i also need a mandate to finally bring this partnership and cooperation agreement with russia to life, to bring into the negotiations precisely the things that also play a role in the question of energy security. but i would like to mention another aspect in this context, namely why it is important to have this dialogue with russia. if we all know how pipelines are laid in russia, where they are laid, and that global warming may soon cause these pipelines to lose their present state, then it is important to establish close contact with russia in this particular area, and not just with the other producing countries or the corresponding transit countries. i would like to take up an area which has already been raised by several colleagues, including robert goebbels, namely the social dimension, the social model of europe. sometimes people criticize her for not really being the center of attention. i would just like to remind you that this presidency held a conference in nuremberg a few days ago, chaired by the president of the council, the federal minister for labour and social affairs, mr franz müntefering, on the subject of how to respond to the challenge of globalisation. what can the european union do? what is to be preserved, and where do we need to change accordingly in response to the challenges? the president of the council has also set himself the objective of doing so during the g8 presidency. however, we must think about how we can remove the fear of change from many citizens in this changing world. the fact that you also need security in change is a very important aspect. on the subject of lisbon, many people think of the beautiful portuguese capital, but others cannot make the connection. the commission is not alone in having to remedy this. it is our task to reiterate the objectives pursued by the lisbon strategy - growth, jobs and sustainability - and to coordinate them with new themes and challenges, such as research, education and training. but we must also show at national level that this impulse, this coordination, has taken place at european level. mr president, a final remark on the subject of the constitutional treaty, although it is not the subject of the spring session: it is not enough to say things like: 'finally, withdraw from the constitutional treaty, the people do not want this treaty'. this is wrong, because there were also countries, namely spain and luxembourg, which accepted this constitutional treaty, whether by parliament or by referendum. it is true that in two other member states a negative result has been obtained. at the same time, as the chancellor said in her speech to the german presidency here a few weeks ago, some of those who oppose this constitutional treaty also want more powers for the european union, for example in the field of energy. that is what the constitutional treaty actually provides. so now i have to decide what i want. i can't always pick the one thing that's important to me. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the creation of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, etc.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank all the members for staying until the very end. it is always a challenge to create a real debate and not just to have monologues. i should like to make three comments. firstly, i should like to follow up on something to which many of you referred: the deadlock over the constitutional treaty and what many of you have pointed to as a lack of commitment from our political leaders in europe today. the commission, of course, fully backs what we could call a courageous and ambitious commitment from the german presidency to ensure that this whole issue is moved from a stage of reflection to one of action. we know it will not be easy to find solutions, but we will help as much as we can. we must overcome this deadlock as soon as possible. the outcome of the spring council will be very important in this respect, as will its capacity to deliver on the crucial issues on the agenda, including climate change. i should like to comment on what some of you have said about the ambitions of the commission and the european union. it is important to say that there is a longer-term objective and target for what we have to do in order to fight climate change. the 30% cut in developed countries’ emissions by 2020 is a necessary step towards the longer-term objective of reducing them by as much as 50% below 1990 levels by 2050. it is necessary to see that this is a step in that direction. this reduction is essential if we are to meet the 2°c objective, which we know, in turn, should prevent massive and irreversible disruption of the global climate system. it is the developed countries that should continue to shoulder most of this global effort to reduce emissions over the next decade or so, as they are already doing under the kyoto protocol, so as both to be credible and motivate those poorer countries in the world that will have to follow suit. we asked the group of developed countries to reduce by 30%. let us ask ourselves whether this is ambitious. compared to 1990, us emissions are currently up by 15%, those of the eu-25 are down by 5% and those of russia are down by 30%. it will not be easy, and you cannot see it individually, but it represents a huge challenge. let me also mention the costs, because many of you have referred to the costs for industry. the commission has made impact assessments that show that taking action to limit climate change is fully compatible with sustaining global growth. investment in a low-carbon economy will require around half a percent of global gdp over the period from 2013 to 2030 and would reduce global gdp growth by 0.19% per year, which is a fraction of the expected annual gdp growth rate of 2.8%. this is without associated health benefits, greater energy security and reduced damage from avoided climate change being taken into account. this is a small insurance premium to pay for significantly reducing the risk of irreversible damage to our economy and to our planet, and especially if you compare it with the stern review’s estimate that uncontrolled climate change will cost between 5 and 20% of gdp in the longer term. so we must consider the cost of inaction! climate change is already costing us – just ask insurance companies all over the world. finally, the spring council is about the lisbon strategy. you are absolutely right that, if we want to communicate, we have to mention that it is about jobs and growth. lisbon is also about the courage of reform. i fully agree with mr watson that there is ample evidence that reforms work. however, we also have evidence that societies dominated by fears and insecurity are not easy to reform: they are afraid of change. that is also what we see in europe and that is why we have to build confidence and remember that the lisbon strategy – the jobs and growth strategy – is also about fighting social exclusion and poverty; fighting poverty in europe as well, improving quality of work, investing in education, building civic competence and investing in people. that is the only way to overcome the fears. listening to all these interesting speeches, i am reminded of the intimate link between the growth and jobs strategy and sustainable development, because we have heard all the arguments for why we as europeans would like to see economic growth, coupled with social security and maintenance of a high level of environmental protection, while continuing to be ambitious. i think that sustainable development is an objective which is gaining ground more and more as the vision for europe and for the world.
the debate was closed by the submission of five motions for resolutions on the lisbon strategy, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.20 p.m. pending the next question time to the commission and resumed at 5.35 p.m.) written declarations (rule 142)
member of the commission. the idea of making the same conditions available for products within agricultural processing and marketing has clearly been that we think that there can be certain similarities to other production areas and, therefore, we introduced this possibility of eur 200 000 over a three-year fiscal period. we do not make any distinction between smaller and larger companies. the only condition is that it is not primary production. so this eur 200 000 cannot be used to support a primary producer or farmer. farmers are still subject to the present rules, with ‘de minimis’ aid of up to eur 3 000 under the same conditions over a three-year period. however, we will be looking into the old ruling on ‘de minimis’ aid for the agricultural sector at the end of 2008.
member of the commission. for the primary producer of the renewable energies, namely the farmers, we have a specific incentive which is equal to the value of eur 45 per hectare if one enters into a contract producing renewable energies. we discussed this with the new member states and they have been introduced into this scheme from 1 january 2007. if one wants to invest, for example, in bio-energy at the farm level, one can look into the possibilities in the first and the second pillar of the rural development policy on competition and on the environment. so there are different possibilities of looking for specific support for energy purposes.
member of the commission. the commission would like to remind the honourable member of the need to adapt the fruit and vegetable sector in order to be in line with the reformed common agricultural policy, the reforms that started in 2003. the inclusion of the fruit and vegetable sector into the single payment scheme will lead to an even more market-oriented sector and it will give producers a certain stability of income. the honourable member has predicted a distribution of aid in the single payment scheme that nobody could access at this moment, since it depends on the system applied for member states from one member state to another. the allocation of aid depends on the rights granted by the member states according to objective and non-discriminatory criteria. the proposal has been preceded by different initiatives. in 2004, the commission presented a communication which resulted in the dutch presidency of the council establishing the line to follow. there was also the own-initiative report of the european parliament in may 2005. today, the commission has received several evaluation studies in relation to the sector. an impact assessment document has also been drawn up. the impact assessment includes wide public consultation. most of the organisations that responded wanted continued support for producer organisations. better promotion of the consumption of fruit and vegetables is also considered to be very important. on decoupling, opinions differ depending on the different products concerned. certain contributors consider that it is the right response to the problem of management and differences in treatment that we see in the sector today. the commission is fully convinced that the reform proposal will have a positive effect on the whole fruit and vegetable sector.
i'm sorry to disagree with your assessment. the commission's proposal is born with two original sins. firstly, it does not distinguish between citrus and other fruit and vegetables, between trees and plants, and secondly, it rewards those who do not work and penalizes those who do. in addition to these two original sins, it has not taken account of four proposals put forward by the valencian government and the murcian government: the creation of a crisis fund to help maintain the market, the prohibition of new plantings, the increase in controls on the origin of citrus fruit from other countries and, finally, the promotion, with community funding, of a plan for the overall conversion of citrus production to adapt production to market demand.
member of the commission. madam president, i am very grateful to the european parliament and in particular to the rapporteur, mrs batzeli, and the committee on agriculture and rural development, the committee on international trade and the committee on regional development for their work in preparing an own-initiative report on the commission’s communication ‘towards a sustainable european wine sector’. i knew before i started the reform process that it would be difficult and complex. these last few months have certainly confirmed this impression. my debates in the committee on agriculture and with a number of members in the intergroup on wine here and in their constituencies have shown me that we are dealing with difficult and sensitive issues. i therefore welcome the report. it is an ambitious report that covers the whole range of aspects addressed in the communication. i believe that i am not saying too much by noting that mrs batzeli has grasped the many conflicting concerns that we need to reconcile in the course of the reform. it has been a valiant effort and we will now study the report carefully. i shall make a few initial observations tonight based on our first reading of the report. firstly, i should like to express a little regret. the report initially states that the commission, by advocating the need for the reform within the european union, is not paying sufficient homage to the image of european wines. let me, therefore, be completely clear. the european union’s wine sector is second to none: it delivers the best quality wine in the world, it is extremely diverse and it is an important part of our cultural heritage. however, some parts of the sector are struggling. millions of hectolitres go into crisis distillation every year. that is hardly a sign of a sector that is in good shape, which is what i want it to be. i want the sector to be able to compete so that europe will continue to be the world’s leading producer of wine. that is why the current regime simply has to be changed. it is no longer sustainable. i think we can agree that it has resulted in a structural imbalance. stocks are high and, as a result, prices for many wines are low and income for wine-growers has been reduced. these developments, combined with falling consumption, changing lifestyles and increasing imports from third countries, have forced changes upon us. i think this is widely accepted. the direction we all want to take is described in recital k of your report. it suggests that the principal aims of the reform should be to strengthen the dynamism and competitiveness of the sector without losing its market share in international markets, but, equally, to take account of the interests of producers and consumers, while respecting the objectives of maintaining tradition, quality and authenticity. it goes without saying that you are critical of certain elements of the communication, including matters such as the consumption forecast and the alerts, and the contradiction between the policies of grubbing-up and competitiveness. the commission agrees that one of the main challenges is to revive demand, but profitability is even more vital and the pattern of structural surplus leading to lower prices and negative incomes needs to be stopped first. profitability is not a question of concentrating production in a few hands and then standardising the wine. there are small producers who make wine of a wonderful quality and who are also very profitable and i see no reason why this should not still be the case in future. however, grubbing-up allows those wine producers who are never going to be able to be competitive and who are not able to respond to consumer demand to leave with dignity and compensation. surely no one here wants to force those producers who have no profitable, predictable future in the sector just to remain because they cannot afford to leave. i fully understand that grubbing-up is a sensitive question. i therefore particularly appreciate the constructiveness that the european parliament has already shown on this issue. i welcome your recognition that the decision to grub up must lie with the grower and, having said this, i have also studied your different suggestions very attentively. you also state very clearly that the decision to grub up cannot, and should not, be taken in a vacuum. i completely agree. you have put forward suggestions on how to ensure that grubbing-up complies with a certain number of social and environmental aspects and i can assure you that these will serve as a useful inspiration when we consider how better to frame grubbing-up within our legislative proposal. i have also noted that you propose to operate a reform in two stages. we will have plenty of time to discuss the timing and how to calibrate the various instruments at the different stages, but i agree on the concept that we need initially to address the structural imbalances that weigh heavily on our sector today. one issue that you come back to in the report, and which was also a key factor in our earlier debates, is your strong preference for maintaining the wine budget within the first pillar. first of all, i believe that this is at odds with the community position that rural development measures can make a substantial contribution to the required improvements in the wine-growing regions. let us not forget that we can ring-fence funds for wine regions in the rural development budget. but i also believe that your position on this issue rests on a false perception that i want to shift considerable funds away from the first pillar, and this is not the case. i have said on several occasions, and will repeat tonight that in the future the majority of funding to the sector will continue to come through the first pillar, but this should not prevent us from drawing on the obvious benefits of also having recourse to the second pillar. i know that in this parliament there is a strong push for more community efforts on promotion. it is indeed important that we improve information about the advantages of moderate and responsible wine consumption and that we promote opportunities in third countries more aggressively. i think that you will agree with me that we need a more progressive and a more modern approach. this is something to which i will certainly give due attention in the legal proposal. finally, i would like to say that i have worked with this parliament for two and a half years. you have clearly demonstrated your ability to be progressive and creative, even on sensitive matters such as the sugar reform, in the pursuit of balanced reform solutions that properly prepare the european union’s agriculture to face up to its present and future challenges. but when i look at many of your positions, notably on enrichment, distillation, and private storage, i must admit that i find you to be a little more timid than usual in your zeal for reform. i do not expect us to agree on these issues now, but these are areas where i believe we will need to be innovative and creative. much difficult work therefore lies ahead of us, but i look forward to your continued and very valuable input. i welcome this opportunity for a debate here tonight. my apologies to the chair for being more lengthy than usual, but this is a very important issue which is the focus of huge attention in all the regions of europe and that is why i took the liberty of speaking for a little longer than usual.
the committee on regional development has in its opinion wanted to stress certain issues which we consider important from the point of view of territorial cohesion, when implementing a reform which will have important consequences for certain european regions. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the wine sector, in particular by introducing a system of regional aid for the production of wine. we therefore want to draw attention to the commission's proposed grubbing-up scheme, which would seriously damage the economic and social situation of certain regions where the wine sector is the main source of employment and prosperity. we believe that the commission should propose measures to modernise wine production techniques and marketing methods. finally, it must be a reform which is applied in a progressive manner and includes transitional periods and a permanent assessment of the effects of the reform on the economic and social situation of the regions of the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs batzeli, on the enormous work she has done. secondly, i would like to address the commissioner and tell her that, according to her own diagnosis, wine consumption is falling in the european union, our trade balance with third countries is deteriorating and we have a surplus of production which the commission estimates at 15% of the total for 2011. but while i agree with the commissioner that this reform is necessary, i hope she has understood the message of this parliament, that the start-up cannot be the central axis on which the reform is based, but just another instrument of structural adjustment, subject to the control of the member states. we need a reform that preserves the best of ourselves. it is not a question of producing less to make room for others, but of tackling the changes needed to improve our own production, processing and, above all, marketing structures, as the sector demands. as regards the financial statement, parliament's support for maintaining the current budget, within the first pillar of the cap, is unequivocal. the distribution of the aid between the producer countries, on the basis of historical data, through the so-called 'national packages', will help to ensure that the reform is implemented more effectively. as regards the liberalization of planting rights, i believe, madam commissioner, that it must be done with caution and always under the supervision and control of the member states. i would also like to express my support for mrs fraga's amendment, which recommends that must produced in the european union itself be used for enrichment.
wine is not made, wine is made and raised. it's a subtle difference, but it's an important one, because it says a lot about who's talking to you and it says a lot about the person's point of view and their sensitivity to the sector. the european wine sector is certainly in trouble and the fundamental problem it is facing at the moment is the difficulty created by the increase in domestic demand, because consumption internationally is still increasing. however, this problem must be solved, and it must be solved in the light of its many implications, because the sector in europe is increasingly importing. so it's not a problem of what we produce, but of the price at which we sell it. and why do we sell at different prices? well, basically because european producers do not have the same requirements as those of third countries, but many more, so they do not have equal competition. the competitiveness of the sector must be improved, not by tearing 400 000 hectares of vineyards down, but by controlling them; not by indiscriminately liberalizing them, but by controlling, promoting, encouraging and guaranteeing the culture, tradition and quality of european wines, because wine is not made, but is grown and made. that is why we must support culture and encourage consumers to know what wine they are consuming and when a broth is a wine from a vineyard or from a reserve, a large reserve, table wine, wine from the land, vintage wine or whatever we want to call it. we must improve and complete all the qualities of wine by controlling oenological practices, promoting responsible consumption and, above all, by research, development and innovation. not by making, but by making within a culture, a tradition and a quality that represents european wines, respecting our traditions and, above all, raising the level of demand to match quality from above, never from below. we therefore expect the commission's proposal to at least show leadership and imagination in proposing something which will really ensure the competitiveness of the sector.
madam president, madam commissioner, the lack of consensus on compromise before the adoption of this report has resulted in a number of errors and contradictions which i hope will be resolved in the vote in this house. among these, i must mention paragraph 18 on the distillation of by-products, which calls for the alcohol obtained from this type of distillation to be destined, at least in part, for the oral market. this statement shows that the various types of distillation and the alcohols obtained from them are not known, since the alcohol for oral use, intended exclusively for the production of brandy, sparkling wine and liqueur wine, is a product of a high quality, something which is absolutely unattainable for alcohol obtained from the distillation of by-products. i therefore consider it necessary to vote against this paragraph in order to avoid further confusion in the field of distillation and the alcohols derived from it. secondly, i would like to emphasize something fundamental in any reform of the cmo, namely the budgetary aspects. so far, all the reforms of the com have taken account of a distribution of funds based on a historical criterion and, surprisingly, the wine reform is intended to move towards other formulations, which are unclear at the moment but which create great uncertainty in the sector. i therefore also propose that the amendments concerning the imposition of the historical criterion in the allocation of funds be voted on, in order to clarify mrs batzeli's report.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. more than a year ago, in mid-december 2005, the european parliament, in its resolution calling for the establishment of the temporary committee on trade and investment policy, stated: the european parliament reaffirms its determination to fight terrorism, but stresses that the fight against terrorism cannot be won by abandoning the very principles that terrorism seeks to destroy, and in particular the protection of fundamental rights must never be compromised. the council fully shares this position then as now! my colleague paula lehtomäki, speaking on behalf of the finnish presidency at this point in the debate on the interim report of the tdip ad hoc committee in july last year, stressed that 'all measures to combat terrorism must be in line with international legal obligations and there must be no compromise on human rights, refugee issues or humanitarian matters'. the council's position has not changed! the european union's foreign ministers have also expressed this principle in their talks with other countries, and in our talks with our american friends we have also made clear our concern about the situation in guantánamo, and at the same time called on the united states to close this prison camp immediately. the high representative for the cfsp and secretary-general of the council, mr javier solana, also made statements on this subject during his hearing before the committee. he stressed that the eu had always stressed, particularly in its relations with the united states, the importance of the common values to be upheld in the fight against terrorism. the council has therefore been implementing the report's request for some time. the work of the standing committee on the alleged use of european states by the cia for the transportation and unlawful detention of prisoners as well as the investigations of the council of europe have raised a number of important questions and further raised awareness of the importance of human rights. the tdip hearings, its interim report and this draft final report have been the subject of parliamentary and judicial inquiries in a number of member states. these are often not yet completed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these studies are in line with the relevant requirements of the report. in the spirit of the principle of subsidiarity, this seems to me to be the right level for such investigations. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. this is particularly true of the question of surveillance of intelligence services. the council has repeatedly drawn attention to this fact to the european parliament and the committee, both through minister lehtomäki and through its high representative and secretary-general, mr javier solana. this is regrettable. but the existing treaty situation limits the council's a priori ability to act in these areas. the report also makes clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the committee on budgets. the finnish and german presidencies took part in the debates on the interim and final reports in plenary. and javier solana and the eu counter-terrorism coordinator, mr de vries, have accepted invitations to the temporary committee and have answered all questions within their mandate. you will understand that i cannot go into the specific points of the report in this intervention. the first is that there are a number of amendments which i do not want to go into. in addition, in the sections dealing with individual member states, the presidency follows the usual practice of not commenting publicly on matters falling within the competence of the member states. the standing committee has drawn its conclusions and critical remarks, which are sometimes wide ranging, on individual cases and individual member states, generally from publicly available documents and important witness testimony. claims become facts so fast. the council considered that in some cases more restrained language would have been desirable, particularly as some of the issues discussed cannot be assessed conclusively without a full knowledge of the facts. i think that the parliament and the council are not so far apart in substance as the present draft report suggests. i am convinced that all the union's institutions base their actions on the same common and inalienable values. the council will in any event respect fundamental and human rights and continue to actively promote them at home and abroad.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the tragic terrorist attacks in the world, security has become an essential right of citizens, because we can all live in a world of freedom and rights. and it is undeniable that security is one of the fundamental rights of citizens, which makes the exercise of freedoms possible, but we must never forget, as we have said many times in this house, that legality is the precondition for guaranteeing the right to security of citizens. in other words, ladies and gentlemen, security is not and can never be at any price. these being our values, we should not be afraid or ashamed to deal with such a matter in this house, a matter which we have tried to clarify and explain thanks to the work of parliament and the contribution of many of us. we must never forget, first of all, that the search for truth in the rule of law is based on the identification of precise facts, which are called upon to be investigated by free and independent courts. and in the face of reports, complaints and facts, it was and is the duty of national investigations to ascertain the truth and, where it appears that the law has been violated, to ensure that those responsible are punished. it is undeniable that there were those responsible, but it is not for the european institutions, this parliament or the commission, to pass judgments but to ask for the truth to be established. it is clear that the truth that will emerge from the conduct of the trials in accordance with the rule of law may have consequences, both at the institutional and political level. i welcome the fact that parliament's inquiry has provided, as the rapporteur, mr fava, has just said, factual information which is useful for the continuation of the inquiry. it is therefore the task of the magistrates to investigate and it is the task of the governments - both of those who have done so and of those who have not yet done so - to conduct administrative investigations and punish unfaithful officials, because an official who commits violations with the cover of secrecy betrays his institutions, betrays the state, and is therefore an unfaithful official. it is the duty of governments, however, once the facts are finally settled, to reveal the truth, even if it is an uncomfortable and unpleasant truth. the european commission's task has been to contribute to parliament's work by providing concrete elements which have proved useful to parliament's inquiry. but the commission's task will also be, once the truth is known, if it is known, to draw conclusions from the judgments and then to make proposals. i believe that it is also and above all the responsibility of parliaments and politics to look to the future and to suggest solutions so that these events will never happen again. i am sure that all those who have engaged in this investigation have done so primarily to serve the purpose of security in legality and law-abiding, and to serve security as a right: security is not an optional right after 9/11, it's a fundamental right. i trust in the will of all those who have worked on this aspect to continue to do so. that is why we need to reflect on the role of services. the president-in-office of the council has rightly said that there can be no european law on secret services, but that political reflection is required on the role of these services, which i am deeply convinced are essential institutions for combating terrorism, but which must operate under the responsibility and clear mandate of governments. national rules are therefore needed: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we do not want to know the secret information, but we want to know the overall record of the activities of an institution which must be confirmed and cannot be discredited, as if it were an association of criminals. however, i believe that political control by the parliaments is essential. there are other aspects which could be considered at european level: i'm talking about the use of airspace. the use of airspace is one of the points highlighted in the fava report. how are state aircraft, or those used for state services, classified? how do we tell them from civilian airplanes? this is a point on which the european commission can make a contribution, because our responsibility for air traffic can help to define safer criteria, which make it possible to ascertain whether a legitimate use is possible and prevent the misuse of the purpose of covering an aircraft for state services, when it is not a matter of state services. this is a concrete contribution we can make. let me now make a purely political point. i think it would be a political mistake to give the impression - and this is not the intention of the rapporteur - that the united states of america is on the defendants' stand. that would be a political mistake, and i would not agree with that - i say this sincerely - because we should rather emphasize first of all that the defendants are the terrorists, that is, those who have broken the law and who are ready to strike once again at our democratic institutions. i say this because we all know that this dark affair, certainly full of violations, was born precisely thanks to the great american democracy, thanks to the free press in the united states which has allowed the disclosure of facts that have been investigated by the european parliament and other institutions, including the judiciary. you are well aware that the united states congress is still dealing with the matter and that it is our intention, during the german presidency, to work with the presidency to relaunch euro-atlantic cooperation based on two pillars: the european union is a democratic country. i believe that we will continue to seek the truth and to cooperate, as is our duty, with the united states of america, as sincere allies, who tell the truth even when the truth is inconvenient, and who demand punishment for those responsible in case of violations. let me conclude by saying that if this parliament is divided today on such a sensitive issue, its message will be weakened. if, on the other hand, it is united in its words of firmness on the one hand and of a revival of cooperation on 'rights and security' on the other, it will prove to be a stronger parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, europe’s credibility is at stake here today. when we support this splendid report, which closes a year of hard and serious work in the committee, we will be showing a very strong concern, as great as anyone else’s, for security, and for security by all legal means, including the work of secret services, who can operate inside the law. we will be showing a concern for the legitimacy to protect our freedom and to protect the relationship with our closest allies. but we cannot support the idea that the only way to protect our freedom is through a dirty war. we do not like dirty war. that would represent – it has represented – a frontal attack on our values: what we stand for and what we preach. we have gathered together here a great amount of information that proves the existence of an illegal, sometimes criminal, scheme designed to fight terrorism, operating worldwide and assisted by the passivity, if not the active cooperation, of some european member states, of some governments or of people under their control. the council itself cannot be excluded from criticism of such passivity. we have not acted as a court. we are a political body and what we will vote on here is a political statement based on facts: facts that have been checked, facts that have been proved and facts that anyone who reads this document will see to be true, not with the sort of truth that can be proved point by point before a court, because we did not have the means to do that. why not? because many of the governments involved did not help us to have those means. but the facts are there. this is not inventive imagination. we have met the victims – those who could come, that is, for others are still in jail. some are innocents in guantánamo who were taken from their homes after being cleared by a court. so we are making a political statement and sending a message to european governments and to the member states. we are saying to them here, on behalf of millions of european citizens: you cannot do this in our name. you cannot fight terrorism through a dirty war in our name. do not do that in our name because you are not representing us when you fight terrorism through these means. that is the statement that this chamber will be voting on here today. you are free to support it or not, but that is what is going to be voted on here in several hours’ time. (applause from the alde group)
mr president, contrary to what many people expected, the fava report has already had a catalytic effect, even before it was voted on, of a still unknown and unpredictable magnitude. gradually walls and curtains fall, and the truth emerges. the temporary committee of the european parliament, which many people were critical of at the beginning, has far exceeded the expectations that were created. among other things, and thanks to the complicity maintained with many other actors interested in getting to the bottom of the matter, the work, throughout this year, has had an effect similar to uncorking a bottle of champagne, which was being shaken for a long time. and it would certainly be a good and beautiful metaphor, if it were not for the fact that what is really hidden in that bottle is not good champagne, but rather a dangerous combination of negligence, irresponsibility, criminal complicity and, above all, a violation of the values and principles on which we say the european union is founded. the work, therefore, cannot stop now. on the contrary, it is now that all efforts must be concentrated to reach the bottom, no matter who falls. and this must be done at least on three levels: by setting up committees of inquiry in the parliaments of the states mentioned, including that of my country, spain, by facilitating and encouraging the work of the prosecutor's offices, and finally, by the european parliament, by addressing developments as part of the permanent agenda of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the subcommittee on human rights.
it is now up to the member states to complete this research. i hope and hope that my government, the spanish government, will not prevent the creation of a committee of inquiry in the cortes generales, among other things to investigate the direct flights between the us bases of rota, morón, torrejón and guantánamo, and the possible involvement of spanish police officers in interrogations in guantánamo during the government of mr aznar. therefore, it is appropriate to investigate this. i understand that there are honourable members who are against the fava report. they are the same people who supported the war in iraq, that illegal and immoral war that has made the world more unjust and more insecure. the long arm of the cia is apparent, and it is apparent in some of the interventions, i understand that, but these honourable members must understand that, in fact, the debate at the moment is about something else, the debate is about enforcing the law, enforcing international law in the fight against terrorism. i therefore regret that there are statements which seek to denature this excellent report.
mr president, the work of this commission and the report by mr fava, regardless of the treatment accorded to each of the member states, raise - i would say - one or two fundamental questions. the first is whether, in the fight against that phenomenon that really hits our society, which is terrorism, anything is worth it. and what we are interested in is whether we want to build a project of the european union as a community of law, where legal rules are conceived qualified by the obligation to comply with them and where human rights are respected and safeguarded, or whether we want to think - and this is the second element - that this legal space and this space of values which we want to build must be and can be compatible with a friendly and balanced relationship with the united states, a positive and active partner of the european union, in the field of the transatlantic relationship. and the answer must be yes, because in the face of the terrorist phenomenon, which threatens us all equally, with the law in hand, the answer must also be that of all equally. i would like to make two comments, mr president, on mr fava's report. despite the tireless work it has done, many members of this parliament feel that the report does not provide additional information in relation to other reports, such as the council of europe report or information in the press. and a fundamental conclusion: despite the existence of a european coordinator in the fight against terrorism and a high representative for the common foreign and security policy, the european union has no competence in this area, since it is located in the member states. and i believe that in this area the european union must take a decisive and firm step in the right direction to try to make up for these shortcomings. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that there are members of this parliament who, because they are hitting or think they are hitting the wall with a hammer, think they are nailing nails. and it must be said that it is regrettable, mr president, that one can tear one's clothes in condemnation of the legal limbo of guantánamo - which we obviously do not like - and ominously remain silent about the regime that is really hitting cuba, which is the castro regime, and remain silent with two measuring rods, demonstrating a rather regrettable moral indigence.
what has happened is extremely serious and cannot be covered up. on the contrary, the policy-makers of the member states and the european union must investigate, clarify and explain to the citizens the extent of their respective responsibilities. the illegal flights of the cia, being in themselves a flagrant violation of legitimacy and legality, were nothing more than an instrument of a cruel system of arrests, interrogations, torture and disappearances outside any legal framework. there are no shortcuts any more, the evidence and the evidence are more than enough to form a political judgment that condemns without any further ado the great legal operation mounted by the bush administration and supported to a greater or lesser extent by some european officials. what greater hypocrisy could there be, mr president, than condemning guantanamo in this chamber, calling for its closure and sending police officers to interrogate prisoners? the fight against terrorism will remain a priority for the european union, and the utmost cooperation with our north american ally will be necessary, but it will only be possible on the basis of mutual trust and absolute respect for the rule of law. a clear message must come out of this house today. europe has already learned the lesson of torture, detention without bail, persecution and concentration camps. on the pain of that experience we have built the rules of the democratic game and of international law and we will not abandon them even in the name of world security. because, mr president, what is at stake today is not the credibility of the bush administration, whose counter-terrorism strategy has already failed, it is our credibility, it is our credibility we are talking about.
mr president, i wanted to make a personal reference on the basis of rule 145 of the rules of procedure. i'm sorry mr. alvaro isn't here, who was the one who referred to me. i would just like to say three things. firstly, mr president, i am always willing, modestly, to learn, but i am not always willing to be taught. secondly, mr president, i think, quite frankly, that one of the greatest frauds of knowledge is to try to pass off what is a personal opinion as a fact, and to pass off what is a judgment as a permanent category of reason. and thirdly, mr president, that a true liberal does not dogmatize and respects the opinions of others, and that in a debate as legitimate as it is to be in favour of it as to be against it or to abstain.
on procedure, i cannot accept the principle of voting in block on certain amendments without first receiving the list in writing and without interruption so that i can study it. so, i'm sorry, there are blocks inside which we want to hold some things and discard others. every sentence in this report counts, mr president. if we had known about this proposal before, we could have done it. but we have a voting list which is calibrated to the last centimeter and we are not going to risk a wrong vote by our group just to save five or ten minutes. i'm sorry about that.
i understand very well why the house has decided to vote as a body. but can anyone explain to me what a group has to do, in the event of a block vote, to support some of the amendments and not support others, or even reject them? what should we do in such cases, mr president? we want to support some of the amendments and vote against others. what do you propose, mr president?
i call for a separate vote on amendment no 38.
mr president, i think it is in everyone's interest that the groups vote as they have decided to vote. the fact that the amendments from the nes have been removed from the voting list is causing confusion among a number of our colleagues at the moment. they think they are voting on the amendments to the nap when they are voting on the original paragraphs. i therefore ask you to please check electronically the vote on the original paragraph 66 and i ask our colleagues to always check whether the vote is on the original or on an amendment.
it is an oral amendment which merely updates the information. it is to add at the end of paragraph 110:takes note of the decision by the spanish authorities to declassify secret documents held by the intelligence services concerning the use by cia-operated aircraft of spanish airports; this is an update.
mr president, in order to respond positively to mr guardans cambó's proposal and to try to save his oral amendment, i would like to propose to the house - and my group could approve it - to simply add 'at the request of the judge of the national court'. if that is possible, mr president, we can accept it. if that is not possible, mr president, there will be an obstruction by my group.
i would like to say that, in agreement with the rapporteur, who will be tabled an oral amendment later on after rule 184, we have agreed to withdraw this amendment in this section so that we can support the rapporteur's amendment in rule 184. so we withdraw our own in this section.
the rapporteur. - madam president, international terrorism is the most dangerous threat to peace, security, integrity and human dignity. as an invisible, geographically diffuse enemy, located both within and outside our borders, the way we are fighting it is different from how the european union has faced enemies in the past. the european union's counter-terrorism strategy must be global, multilateral and based on the united nations system. any unilateral and exclusively military response is doomed to failure. the fight against terrorism will be won in the field of values. it is therefore essential for the moral defeat of terrorism to raise awareness and mobilize our public opinion. you must never let your guard down. we must not react only after a major attack, but permanently and proactively. a strengthened cfsp is a necessary condition for success. this means improving, equipping and coordinating european intelligence and information services and deepening the detection of terrorist financing channels. the union's external action must concentrate on stopping the support of terrorist groups by sanctions and coercive measures in those states which do so, and on helping weak states to strengthen their institutions and strengthen democracy so as to prevent terrorist groups from taking root there. madam president, preserving the rule of law and human rights in the fight against terrorism is not only the moral barrier, it is the raison d'être of our strategy, because it is precisely what the terrorists want to destroy: the values on which our coexistence is based. if we give in on that ground, as has happened with the war in iraq, guantanamo, abu ghraib or the illegal flights of the cia, we will be giving excuses to the terrorists, who will try to justify themselves, and we will be providing fuel for terrorism. the limitation of fundamental rights does not produce more security, but more fear. we need free, self-reliant societies. fearful societies lose the fight against terrorism in advance. the safety/freedom dilemma is false. we will be safer if we are freer, more open and more inclusive. prevention, which is so important and which failed on 11 september in new york and 11 march in madrid, is essential, as is greater efficiency in police and judicial action. our cfsp must help to remove the breeding ground from which international terrorism is fed. terrorism is always unjustifiable. we should never talk about causes, but there are circumstances that feed it, the first of which is the humiliation and contempt felt by millions of muslims, in the face of what they understand as the arrogance and arrogance of the west, and the aggravation of endemic conflicts such as the israel-palestine conflict. it is also contempt for a religion that is peacefully believed by over 1.3 billion people in the world. we are facing fundamentalist, dogmatic fanatics, but not a religion or belief. we sometimes forget that more muslim victims have fallen at the hands of islamist terrorism than western victims. this explains the international success of initiatives such as the alliance of civilizations, adopted by the united nations, in the face of the clash of civilizations that advocate fundamentalists of one sign and the other. in addition to better means, international terrorism must be defeated with intelligence and tenacity, not with incendiary speeches that only demonstrate underlying weakness. fascism, first, and stalinism, decades later, were defeated on the ideological terrain, without renouncing the principles that inspire our societies, among them freedom of expression exercised responsibly. in this report i place particular emphasis on the recognition of victims as the main actors whose voice is heard by the public authorities. that is why we are joined today in the gallery by four direct victims of the march 11 attack in madrid: jesús ramírez castanedo, jesús abril escusa, isabel casanova ortega and euclides antonio río grajales. to them, thank you very much for coming.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr luis yañez-barnuevo garcia, and the committee on foreign affairs of the european parliament for the report on the external dimension of the fight against terrorism which is being presented today. the report is very comprehensive and deals with some very important issues on which we share broadly the same views. the terrorist threat is more international than ever. the measures taken by the european union to deal with this threat can only be truly successful if they are part of a coordinated global effort to combat terrorism. the european council of december 2005 adopted the european union counter-terrorism strategy, which sets out the general framework for european union action in the field of counter-terrorism. at the same meeting, the european council adopted the european union strategy to combat radicalisation and recruitment for terrorism. both documents deal in detail with the external dimension of the fight against terrorism. as regards the external aspects, i would like to highlight three important points: radicalisation and recruitment, cooperation with external partners and the international legal framework. first, the overarching objective of the counter-terrorism strategy is to prevent people from turning to terrorism, and to do this we need to address the factors that contribute to radicalisation and recruitment for terrorism. the union has continued to seek to ensure that issues related to radicalisation and recruitment are taken into account in its external action to combat terrorism. it has exchanged experience and practices with external partners in dealing with the problem of radicalisation. the european union has for the first time also included the fight against radicalisation in a specific technical assistance programme to combat terrorism. meetings devoted to interreligious and intercultural dialogue have been held within the framework of the asia-europe meetings, the barcelona process and the anna lindh foundation. the union has also undertaken a thorough reflection at the working level on how to improve its public diplomacy and contacts with islam, both within and outside the union. we are determined to continue this. radicalisation and recruitment will continue to be addressed in future programmes of technical assistance in the field of counter-terrorism and will remain an important topic of dialogue with third countries. secondly, cooperation with external partners: in pursuing its objectives in the field of counter-terrorism, the european union has continued to work closely with partners outside the european union. political dialogue with partners is an essential component of the european union's external action in the fight against terrorism. respect for the rule of law and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the fight against terrorism were key themes of this dialogue. i am also reminded of the debate we had this morning, where there was a great deal of agreement. a considerable amount of work has been done with a number of countries to strengthen cooperation in the fight against terrorism. the european union and its member states have agreed to provide technical assistance in the fight against terrorism to a number of countries which should be given priority. progress has been made in the political consultations with other priority countries. the european union has also contributed to capacity building at regional level. i would just like to remind you of the jakarta centre for law enforcement cooperation (jclec) in indonesia and the african union counter-terrorism centre in algiers. cooperation with the united states in the fight against terrorism remains a high priority. the european union and the united states have worked together at both political and expert level to deepen their dialogue. the union has also expanded its counter-terrorism dialogue with other partner countries such as israel, australia, canada and russia, and within the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership. areas of common interest and options for cooperation in particular the provision of technical assistance to other countries have been considered. the third is the international legal framework. the european union has continued to advocate that the united nations play a key role in the fight against terrorism. the adoption of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism, with a clear and unambiguous definition of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, would indeed be an important signal that the international community is united in confronting the terrorist threat. the european union will therefore continue to make every effort to achieve international consensus on the comprehensive convention. the recent adoption of a united nations strategy to combat terrorism is also an important step forward in the intensification of international cooperation with third countries in the fight against terrorism. the european union is ready to implement the strategy together with all member states of the united nations. this is one of the european union's priorities for the future. the european union will use its dialogue with external partners to promote the full implementation of this strategy and to exchange views on how best to achieve this objective. i believe that you would make a very valuable contribution to this by raising this issue with your counterparts in third countries. the institutions of the european union - as i said at the beginning - have reached a broad consensus on the priorities for combating international terrorism. your report, mr rapporteur, and a long-term exchange of views such as the one we have today, will help to deepen our common understanding and help us to develop appropriate measures to combat international terrorism. it would also be a sign to those who have been victims of terrorist attacks.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to commend the rapporteur, mr yañez-barnuevo garcía, for his report. let there be no doubt: terrorism is a threat to all states and to all peoples. it is criminal and it is unjustifiable under any circumstances. the commission therefore fully shares the view of the report that terrorism constitutes an important threat to security, to peace, stability and the democratic values on which the european union is founded. the commission also shares the objective of combating terrorism globally while respecting human rights. all anti-terrorist measures must be consistent with both international humanitarian law and international human rights law. while largely agreeing with the report, i would like to comment on two points. firstly, the report is calling for the adoption of a definition of terrorism. since the un has not yet agreed on a definition and since such an agreement still seems distant, although we are working towards that, i would like to recall that relevant universal conventions and protocols already provide a common legal understanding of what constitutes an act of terrorism. the union also has a definition of terrorist acts in its framework decision on terrorism. these are solid legal foundations. secondly, the report calls for the extension of the jurisdiction of the international criminal court to include acts of terrorism as crimes against humanity. i think we should be cautious, before altering the definition of crimes against humanity included in the icc statute. such an endeavour might be counter-productive in the efforts to broaden support for the court. the complex relationship between international humanitarian law and the definition of terrorism may lead to further complications. the commission welcomes the interest of the parliament on the external aspects of the fight against terrorism. in the current environment of open borders, efforts to fight against terrorism, internally and externally, are aspects that are closely linked. it goes without saying that vice-president frattini and i are working closely together in order to make these efforts mutually reinforcing. we strongly agree on the need to support the united nations consistently with our policy of effective multilateralism. equally, the emphasis put on prevention is very important for the commission. conditions conducive to the spread of terrorism need to be tackled. tackling the root causes of terrorism lies at the heart of our external policies, and the report’s recommendations for a more coherent and effective eu policy also largely go in the right direction. let me highlight the important contribution that the commission makes to the fight against terrorism. firstly, with member states, the commission is implementing the 2005 eu counter-terrorism strategy, of which our colleague and president has talked. terrorism also features regularly during meetings with our partners and in international organisations. for example, as i speak, a major meeting is under way with commission participation in berlin in order to prepare the heiligendamm summit of the g8 in the areas of terrorism and organised crime. secondly, the commission is an important provider of capacity-building assistance to some 80 third countries aimed at improving governance and administrative capacities in related areas. a number of priority fields mentioned in the report, such as border management and terrorist financing, are priorities for community assistance. thirdly, the commission is working in new areas which should improve eu action in the fight against terrorism, such as the protection of critical infrastructure, the fight against violent radicalisation and terrorist recruitment, bioterrorism, radiological threats, explosive detection technologies, terrorist use of the internet, as well as terrorism in the context of crisis management, and there are obvious links to our efforts in fighting organised crime and drug trafficking. afghanistan is, for instance, a serious case in point. finally, and in reply to one of the requests of this report, the commission wishes to confirm that it intends to produce a communication in the course of 2007 focusing on global and trans-regional security challenges. the focus will include key aspects relevant to human security and focus on counter-terrorism. you may be aware of my personal commitment to support the human security discourse. what better way could there be to address conditions conducive to the spread of terrorism than to promote both freedom from fear and freedom from want. despite what is being done, i think we can all agree that we must work together and enhance our collective performance in fighting against terrorism. we will try to play our part, but we are certain that the collective effort with parliament will be a more important one.
opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the fight against terrorism is a priority requiring the solidarity of all member states and the commitment of democratic countries. security is a genuine and essential right which can never be exercised at any cost, but only in strict subordination to the law and respect for human rights. international terrorism is a threat to freedom and human rights. the sinister distinction between lethal terrorists and political terrorists, armed arms and political arms, only contributes to strengthening the criminal whole to the detriment of law and order. dialogue with terror in any form or formula is an unequal, useless and offensive dialogue for the victims. member states should pay particular attention to the promotion of intercultural relations and to strengthening interfaith dialogue among members of civil society with a view to improving coexistence, tolerance and mutual understanding. the union should streamline, coordinate and facilitate the action of the instruments at its disposal, europol, eurojust, ecpol and the situation centre, and others with the same purpose to detect and prevent interconnections between terrorism and other forms of crime. i ask, madam president, that the very difficult experience of the victims be respected and taken into account, especially as i say in my report, when drawing up prevention strategies. victims need to be recognized and protected. terrorists start to lose when victims tell the truth and society listens. and as regards prevention, madam president, prevention cannot and must not be a weapon of war between democratic countries and states. the last time prevention failed was on december 30, 2006 in madrid. we do not criticize failures in prevention, we strive to ensure that failures in prevention never happen again. and i conclude, madam president. we will only be able to confront terrorism with determination if we all - and together - democratic countries, and the union in particular, have a clear perception of the threat, and the threat is lethal, permanent and persistent over time.
on behalf of the green group, first of all, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mrs yañez-barnuevo, on her efforts to tackle a subject which is indeed complex and is often the subject of partisan rather than substantive debate, but i would also like to congratulate her on the fact that she has shown great sensitivity on at least three of the issues which are important to our group. the first, which the commissioner has also mentioned, is related to the problem of definition. we have a first major problem, and that is that we cannot do a consistent and credible job in the european union in terms of fighting terrorism if we do not have a definition. and while it is true that there are many - let us say - different opinions in this regard, we would like to make a concrete proposal, and that is to build on what was made and approved at the time in the united nations at the proposal of the then secretary-general kofi annan, who in turn was proposed by the high level group. so we have some important proposals on the table now that we should be working from. the second element which is of concern to us is, of course, the fact that in the name of this so-called fight against terrorism, wars, massacres and torture are often justified, as we have seen, among other things, this morning when we discussed the fava report. and this is what can't happen. we therefore welcome and support the proposal to include in the work of the international criminal court the possibility that it will also take into account, in its jurisdiction, acts of terrorism as crimes against humanity. and finally, another point which we also consider important is that, as regards the existence of the anti-terrorist lists, which have often proved counterproductive in the pursuit of certain peace processes in the world, it is also necessary to take into account that the current situation sometimes leads to arbitrary arrests on the one hand, and on the other hand hinders the efforts being made by the european union in situations such as the middle east, sri lanka, etc. the issue of the anti-terrorist lists should therefore also be reviewed and studied, at least on the basis of what has already been approved by the court of justice of the european communities.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you very much for giving me the opportunity today to make some comments on the report by my colleagues on the broad outlines of economic policy for 2007. as you know, the commission presented its annual progress report on the lisbon process last december. it examines the progress made at community level and in the member states under the lisbon strategy. in presenting its progress report, the commission also made country-specific recommendations on economic and employment policy. these will be drawn up jointly by the ecofin council and the employment, social policy, health and consumer protection council by the end of february, each council configuration focusing on its area of competence. in this context, we welcome the fact that the european parliament has also dealt with these basic features of economic policy. in addition to today's discussion, we shall also have an opportunity to exchange views at the troika meeting on 26 february. the commission's progress report was widely welcomed by the ecofin council in january. we particularly share the positive spirit of the report. the reform process has produced initial tangible results both at eu level and in the member states. overall, the economic and employment situation in the european union is beginning to improve. the renewed lisbon strategy is bearing fruit. however, this too must be said and has been done in various ways yesterday, there is no reason for complacency. we should use the current favourable economic development decisively for further reforms. this is all the more important in the context of demographic change, which poses considerable challenges to fiscal policy. the long-term sustainability of public finances should be ensured by pursuing a three-pillar strategy, namely reform of the pension and health systems, reduction of public debt and increase of the employment rate and productivity. in addition, the quality of public finances should be improved by restructuring public budgets in favour of productivity and innovation-enhancing expenditure and by strengthening human capital. in this context, the country-specific recommendations are a good instrument to continue the modernization of our economy. this will improve the european union's ability to compete globally. mr bullmann, let me make two brief comments on two aspects of your report. firstly, they point out, among other things, the need for better coordination of fiscal and economic policies, especially within the euro area. i am very familiar with these demands. they have been raised over and over again over the years. but if you look at the current situation closely, you will quickly see that there is no lack of coordination procedures in the economic and monetary union. we're more likely to have too many than too few. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in practice, the main thing is to apply these procedures consistently and effectively. the commission has taken the first step in this direction by presenting country-specific recommendations. the second point is more institutional. it refers to the specific proposal in its report to set up an interinstitutional working group after the spring summit to deal with the 2008 review of the integrated guidelines. i am far from being able to make a final assessment of this proposal today. you will see that it requires a thorough examination and not a personal appraisal. at first sight, however, it does not seem to me to be entirely compatible with the division of labour between the institutions provided for in the treaty. but regardless, the communication between the council and parliament has steadily improved in recent years. the troika meetings and today's meeting are a contribution to this. but i also know that we can always take a step forward. i shall now turn to the report by mr andersson. article 128 (2) of the ec treaty provides that the council, on a proposal from the commission, is to adopt guidelines each year, which the member states are to take into account in their employment policies. however, in order to ensure the continuity necessary for proper implementation, it was agreed in 2002 that the employment guidelines should in principle only be revised every three years. it was also agreed that they should be aligned with the broad economic policy guidelines. on this basis, integrated guidelines for the period 2005-2008 were first established in 2005. in 2006, the commission therefore proposed to leave the employment guidelines for 2007 as they had been adopted in 2005. one point that the european parliament has repeatedly raised is that it should be given sufficient time to prepare its opinion carefully, since the urgency procedure has usually been requested due to the tight deadlines of the annual employment cycle. there has been an exchange of letters between the president of parliament and the council. the european parliament has asked for more time for a hearing in 2008 as a comprehensive three-year review of the employment guidelines will take place then. this issue will be examined together with the eu commission. unfortunately, it is not possible to comment on the timing of the procedure in 2008. this year, once the opinions of the european parliament, the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the employment committee are available, the council is expected to reach political agreement on the employment guidelines for 2007 at its meeting on 30 and 31 may 2007. the formal adoption would then take place before the summer of this year. it is also true - as mr andersson has pointed out in his report - that, despite the successes achieved so far - in increasing employment and reducing unemployment - further targeted efforts are needed to achieve the objectives set within the european union. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise once again that this includes in particular an increase in the participation of young people and older people in the labour market and an improved reconciliation of family and work. i know that this is high on the agenda in many member states, but i am also aware of the need for action in the member states.
member of the commission. mr president, with your permission i shall speak in my native language. ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing together the reports by mr bullmann on the general guidelines for economic policy and by mr andersson on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. both reports are based on the commission's communication of last december on the implementation by the member states of the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, and on the integrated guidelines for the period 2005-08, which were adopted by the council on the same day, after consulting parliament, and on a proposal from the commission. today's debate takes place in the weeks before the spring european council on 8 march, and the aim is to help prepare for that council. this morning, parliament adopted a resolution setting out the house's assessment of the implementation to date of the renewed lisbon strategy, highlighting the areas and policies where decisive action by the member states and the european union is needed. it is important to note that the reports we are discussing today and the opinions of this parliament and the european commission coincide on a number of fundamental points. firstly, the parliament and the commission agree on the recognition of the results which are beginning to be seen, both in terms of economic growth and employment, thanks to the implementation of the policies committed in the renewed framework of the lisbon strategy and thanks, in particular, to the efforts of budgetary consolidation and structural reforms carried out in a large number of member states. yesterday, eurostat published the figures for the growth of the gross domestic product in the european union in the fourth quarter of 2006. the overall growth in 2006, in view of this information, has been practically 3%, that is, a growth that marks the maximum level, the maximum rate of increase of our gross domestic product since the lisbon strategy was launched, since the year 2000. but by agreeing with parliament and the commission we must stop stressing and emphasizing this point, as we are beginning to see the positive results of the strategies put in place a few years ago. it is important to convey to citizens the message that the efforts made since the implementation of the stability and growth pact and the lisbon strategy - efforts which have not always been easy to accept or understand - are bearing fruit and contributing to strengthening the european social model in the context of globalisation. many of the difficulties which public opinion has recently encountered in the european project stem precisely from the fear of citizens, of certain sectors of our society, that globalisation will impose a levelling down of the foundations of our social model, without the european union, the policies and strategies decided here being able to prevent it, and some even accuse the european union of provoking and accelerating the degradation of the european social model. with the results in hand we can clearly say that this is not so. those who think that europe is in anarchy and that rigid labour markets are holding back job creation are also wrong. the facts show that since the euro was introduced on 1 january 1999, eight years ago, the european union has created four times as many jobs as in the previous eight years. and in the years since the lisbon strategy was launched until now, the european union has clearly created more jobs than the united states. some people call budgetary policies restrictive and accuse the stability and growth pact of holding back economic growth, but the reality is that the countries with the best budget balances, with budget surpluses, both in the euro area and in the european union as a whole, have long been the ones with the highest rates of economic growth. the fact is that fiscal consolidation is progressing, progressing, improving in parallel with the increase in our growth and job creation figures. there has been much talk lately of the strength of the euro against the dollar or the yen as an obstacle to our exports, but the fact is that the trade balance of the euro area against the united states has improved again in 2006 and the rise in oil prices has been partly offset by the revaluation of the euro against the dollar. in short, ladies and gentlemen, the improvement in our economies and the acceleration in job creation are clear proof that the european economic and social model, with its high degree of social protection and environmental requirements, is perfectly compatible with the globalisation of the economy and economic growth. europe, european countries and our economies have always done better when they have opened up to the world and, now that the world economy is experiencing an unprecedented expansion phase, europe and european citizens have much to gain from this bet on the opening up of our borders and the growing integration of our economies into a global sphere. reaching out to citizens is not just a way of vindicating the economic and social policies we have advocated in recent years: it is a key issue to reinforce confidence in europe's ability to provide well-being to european citizens and offers us a solid basis to reinforce the necessary political will to deepen the path of structural reforms defined by the lisbon strategy. the second fundamental coincidence between the reports we are debating today and our own opinion in the european commission is precisely the need to consolidate the reforms initiated by the implementation by the member states of the national reform plans. in this sense, the dynamism of emerging economies, the ageing of the population, the low growth potential in many european economies, the budgetary imbalances still existing in some member states, the low growth of productivity and the segmentation of the labour market are, among others, very powerful reasons to continue to pursue policies leading to a greater capacity for innovation, to greater opportunities for lifelong learning, to an improved functioning of markets and to a sound public finances. the third important coincidence between parliament and the commission is the need to act not only at the level of each of the member states, but also at the european level, to make progress in the achievement of an internal market in sectors vital to our economy, such as the energy sector or the financial services sector, to strengthen support for innovation, to create a more favourable environment for business activity or a greater adaptability of the product, service and labour markets. among these priorities for action at european level, the reports rightly emphasise the issue of energy, which will be one of the main focuses of the spring european council, which will discuss the energy package proposed by the commission on 10 january. the degree of commitment and ambition shown by the heads of state or government in developing a genuine common energy policy will be decisive in assessing whether the challenge of guaranteeing our energy supply is being met credibly, while at the same time addressing climate change. these are challenges in which the action of individual member states will be clearly insufficient and where, therefore, the real defence of the interests of citizens requires joint action at european level. finally, both mr bullmann's report and mr andersson's report reflect the need for parliament to be able to exercise its prerogatives in good conditions when it comes to reviewing the integrated guidelines of the lisbon strategy, as is planned for next year. i can assure you, señorías, of the commission's firm commitment, and in particular of those within the college who are directly linked to the lisbon strategy, vice-president verheugen, commissioner špidla and myself, of our common will to explore all possible avenues to effectively involve parliament in this review. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to express my hope that the plenary of this parliament will reaffirm the virtually unanimous support which the reports by mr bullmann and mr andersson have received in their respective committees. with this support and the high degree of convergence between parliament and the commission, we will be sending a clear signal to the european council and to citizens in general of the european union's willingness and ability to act as a privileged instrument in dealing with the risks and taking advantage of the opportunities of globalisation, defending and reinforcing economic progress and social cohesion in europe.
thank you, my friend. who would have told us 33 years ago that we would be sitting together today in a debate like this, each in his own position?
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. we have a good report. i think that mr bullmann has done an excellent job, open-mindedly, of constructing an analysis of the european economy at this moment, which is a hopeful moment, but it is also a moment that must be analysed realistically. the report also stresses that we need to make a precise diagnosis of whether we are facing a strictly cyclical recovery or something else. i hope and wish that we are facing something more, but we also have to tell the european citizens that we must continue to work because the consolidation of public finances that we have experienced in the past year may also be due to cyclical components and not to deliberate or structural decisions. we must also make the diagnosis, as the report does, that what has failed in the european economy in recent years has been the weakness of domestic demand, that is to say, confidence, consumer and investor confidence, and that is hugely negative for the european project. we must also insist on the need for reforms: reforms of the labour market, based on dialogue and consensus; reforms of economic policies to favour small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the key to growth and job creation; reforms to complete the single market, especially in the services and energy sectors; reforms to improve the efficiency of the markets for goods, services, jobs and capital; and also tax reforms aimed at providing a coordinated fiscal framework that stimulates job creation and encourages the birth and development of that small and mediumsized enterprise fabric which we consider to be fundamental. we also stress in this report the need to combat protectionism, which is unfortunately present in the attitude of many european governments today, and we also warn that the risk of a euro-dollar exchange rate can undermine the quality of our economic growth.
europe is currently facing two major challenges: economic globalisation on the one hand and an ageing population on the other, all of which is linked to the phenomenon of immigration. both require a clear modernisation of the european social model. competitiveness, as you know, is the key to meeting the challenge of globalisation. we all know that we cannot compete in labour costs with emerging countries, but we have a clear advantage, our human capital, for its capacity, for its flexibility and for its creativity, and we also have, as vital values, solidarity, equal opportunities or inclusion. as regards the ageing of the population, to meet this challenge and to be able to guarantee the pensions and health care of the future, it is essential to increase productivity, which means, among other things, more jobs and also better quality jobs. there is a general consensus among member states that modernisation of employment protection legislation is necessary. in this sense, the combination of flexibility and security, what we commonly call 'flexisegurity', is a key element to be developed in the future. we also need, first of all, to implement an active ageing strategy with more training for those over 45 and with financial and tax incentives to extend working life beyond 65. secondly, to ensure an appropriate policy for immigration, based on a proposal based on a major european agreement which will allow for their orderly control and also their integration through training and retraining schemes tailored to their profiles. finally, reform of public pension systems to ensure their sustainability by consolidating public finances and by encouraging supplementation with individual schemes. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that we have a long way to go to achieve an effective and inclusive european labour market, characterised above all by a lifelong employment approach in which all people, regardless of their age or status, receive the help and opportunities they need.
the liberal group's representative, mrs in 't veld, began by saying that mr bullmann's report was a good report, as had previous reports on broad economic guidelines, but that these good words had not translated into concrete action, that we had never been able to move from the muses to the theatre. i, in the short time i have, am going to focus on institutional reform. a period of reflection on the constitutional treaty has been opened and is about to close, during which virtually everyone has expressed their views. mrs merkel proposes a road map; the socialist candidate, ségolène royal, calls into question the role of the central bank; the presidential candidate, sarkozy, suggests the reforms that must be introduced to make the treaty viable. everyone here is talking about this subject except us. i know that mr almunia thinks that the great economic treaty was maastricht, and that is probably true, but in marxist terms, maastricht did change economic structures. it is now up to us to change the political superstructures, to adapt the institutional architecture to these changes. i would suggest that parliament should be involved in making a few very few pages on what the commissioner, from his vantage point, thinks should be inserted into the constitutional treaty. a similar exercise was carried out in group vi of the european convention which failed, but the list is still in force. what do we think about what should be done in the list of economic objectives of the union? how far do we think the codecision procedure should be extended to economic policy? what about the right of defence in the lamfalussy procedure? how can democratic control of the european central bank be ensured without undermining its independence? what should be done about economic governance (this morning the italian president, mr napolitano, referred to the need for greater economic coordination)? what is the president of the council to do? but here we are still saying nothing. in the field of taxation, and in conclusion, it would be enough to incorporate into the treaty what has already been said in the case-law, a single definition of the tax domicile, a double taxation convention, the application of the principle of non-discrimination, and i am not going to go on because i am out of time. what i propose, mr almunia, is that you make some sheets, those sheets, bring them to that dialogue that we approved in the previous broad economic guidelines and that we agree to join our voices and make constructive proposals on this reform of the constitutional treaty, because tomorrow it will be too late.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i would like to thank you for the exciting debate. of course, the data reported as positive in various areas are to be appreciated. but we cannot rely on these data alone, further efforts are needed. various arguments have also been put forward for the european union's focus on the lisbon process, for example in the area of employment and economic policy. it was also important to say that competition and employment in gothenburg have been complemented by sustainability. the spring council will be held in a few days' time and will deal with a subject which has implications for employment, namely the question of energy. on the one hand, energy as a cost driver, but on the other hand, the question of how we will use energy in the future. can we find alternative forms? how can we open up new fields in this area? it is not the invention of one party or another, but it has become clear that the promotion of renewable forms of energy is an important aspect. it is just as important - and i would like to say this for the presidency, and the president for labour and social affairs, mr franz müntefering, organized a meeting in nuremberg, bavaria, just last week on this question - how this europe can continue to position itself socially. what challenges do you face? how can europe be seen not as a threat but rather as a response to the challenge of globalisation and the question of maintaining the social system? these are very important points which we will also pursue in the g8. i have already indicated that we will pursue the same objectives in the dialogue, in the troika, but also in the way in which we, the commission, the council and parliament, deal with each other, so that we can be in close contact.
member of the commission. i would like to begin by reiterating my thanks to the two rapporteurs and to all those who have taken part in the preparation of these reports and in the debate this afternoon - which i think has been extraordinarily illuminating - on the situation we find ourselves in and the challenges we have to face. the situation - as regards a way of expressing oneself in spanish, but which i believe has translation into some of the few languages i know of in other countries in the union - can be defined, on the optimistic side, as a half-full bottle, and on the pessimistic side, if not at least the side that puts the emphasis on what needs to be done, as a half-empty bottle. some of you were saying to me at the beginning of the debate: is the growth we are having cyclical or does it also have structural components? will the improvement in employment be temporary only as long as the economic expansion lasts, or is it true that we are achieving a better combination of economic efficiency, more employment and greater social cohesion? i think there's something of both, there's something of both elements. i believe that the structural reforms that have been carried out in previous years, together with budgetary discipline and macroeconomic policies, the mix of macroeconomic policies followed since the launch of the third phase of economic and monetary union, are beginning to bear fruit. i think it is good for the citizens of europe to know that these fruits are beginning to bear fruit, that economic growth of around 3%, the two million jobs created last year, the 12 million jobs created in the euro area since 1 january 1999, the very good economic performance of the vast majority of the new member states, the increased consumer confidence, the increase in investment are all due to efforts and decisions taken in recent years. it is not a matter of chance, because if it is not, how are we going to be believed and how are we going to receive support when we say to those same citizens: "mire, do we have to keep doing things?" we must continue to improve the functioning of product and service markets; we must continue to integrate the financial systems in europe; we must continue to improve the quality of regulation to create a favourable environment for small and mediumsized enterprises so that they can compete without an administrative burden, without a series of obstacles that prevent them from getting ahead; we must give workers a good reason to ask for further improvements in the functioning of labour markets. only if we continue to make that effort will we be able to offer really good quality jobs, a future for the next generations, a combination of environmental policies that fight climate change and energy policies that are able to improve our competitiveness. only then can we deliver that result. the reforms of the lisbon strategy, which must be continued, are therefore a call for effort and responsibility on the part of the european institutions and the member states, public institutions and the public sector, and citizens and businesses in the private sector, but they are also a call based on some steps forward that we are already taking and that must be made visible. i believe that the european institutions cannot be used to make policy with pessimism and with the feeling that the future will be worse than the past, because if that is the only message that is sent from the european institutions, then the citizens will say why they want europe. and europe is the best instrument we have in the 21st century to make compatible, as the lisbon strategy said from the beginning, economic dynamism, social cohesion and solidarity with future generations in terms of sustainability, with older populations, with the environment and with the next generations. and a final word on two aspects which have come up in the debate. first, the coordination of economic policies. if i remember correctly, the messina declaration of 1955 - now we speak of the berlin declarations as something similar to the messina declaration - already spoke of the need to coordinate economic policies, but for this, mr garcía-margallo, you do not need to give a mandate to a humble commissioner to become the next european convention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to do that, we need to discuss in depth the implementation of the national lisbon reform programmes and the community lisbon strategy, as the spring european council will do, and discuss how to draw up a common energy policy compatible with an ambitious european environmental strategy. that means continuing to integrate financial services, continuing to improve our internal market, which remains, as some of you have said, a great asset for europe to face globalisation with optimism. this requires - and this is a task which, given the state of the world, falls more to the national level than to european directives - improving the functioning of labour markets, combining flexibility and security, because if there is no security for workers, there will be no flexibility in employment, and if there is no flexibility in companies, there will be no employment for workers. that is the message, i think, ladies and gentlemen, that comes out of this debate and with which the commission feels perfectly in tune.
thank you, chief. the joint debate on these two reports is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the president of the council. i have to say, madam deputy, i am not aware that different bases for calculating the inflation rate are used here. i can only emphasize that the european central bank has an important role to play in ensuring price stability, because this too is important for an issue which we have recently discussed here in the plenary, the question of economic development.
the president of the council. the europe-africa ministerial conference of 22 and 23 november 2006 in tripoli was a major event, bringing together for the first time all the member states of the european union and - i stress this very clearly - all the african states, that is, the members of the african union and morocco, to discuss migration and development issues. the aim of the conference was to strengthen cooperation in a spirit of partnership in these areas, which are of central importance to both sides, and to agree on joint actions. the ministerial conference concluded with the adoption of a political declaration which identifies a number of areas where action is needed, ranging from development issues to legal migration opportunities and the fight against illegal immigration. an action plan to combat trafficking in human beings, in particular women and children, was also adopted. implementation of these two instruments is expected to begin in the coming months.
as you know, the commission is currently making a number of proposals to regulate legal immigration in accordance with the countries of origin, particularly african countries. i would like to know whether, in the context of this tripoli conference, the council is in a position to support the commission's proposals in this respect.
member of the commission. let me begin by thanking mrs aubert and all the members of the committee on fisheries for their participation in this truly comprehensive report on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. this parliament initiative comes at a time when the commission is engaged in a public consultation on the review and strengthening of the european community's current policy against this type of fishing. i am particularly pleased to note the commitment of parliament on a matter of vital importance to achieving sustainable management of fisheries resources in and out of community waters. first of all, i welcome the fact that the report stresses that the fight against illegal fishing must start in our own waters and that it must also concern our vessels. community waters are regulated, but that does not mean that illegal practices are not carried out in them. the report also recognizes another very important aspect, namely how to prevent the entry into the community of fishery products from third countries that have been caught illegally. as the world's largest market and importer of fishery products, the community has a specific responsibility to ensure that products that end up on the tables of european consumers do not come from illegal activities. this implies that a new approach should be established to adequately control the legality of fishery products imported into the territory of the community. another aspect to be highlighted is the need, as noted in the report, to create more synergies to improve the monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activities. illegal operators often use clandestine and international channels to disguise their activities. the success of the investigation of these activities depends on the cooperation of the various services involved in maritime surveillance at international level and also at community level. i cannot list all the points in the report here, but i would like to highlight, for example, the call for greater consistency in the sanctions imposed by member states for serious offences in relation to fisheries laws, or the need to solve the main problems caused by public fishing flags, which demonstrate that parliament and the commission are on the same wavelength as regards priorities for future action. the commission has not been idle over the years. the european community has made considerable progress since the adoption in 2002 of its action plan against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. progress is mainly seen in our work at international level, through which the community has promoted measures against illegal fishing in all bodies responsible for fisheries and the law of the sea. however, the most significant progress against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing has been made in relation to regional fisheries management organisations, most of which, thanks to the community's efforts, have already adopted a comprehensive set of measures against illegal fishing. the community has also improved its policy of assistance to developing coastal states, which are the main victims of the type of fishing we are discussing today. the strengthening of the capacity of these countries to exercise adequate control over fishing activities in their waters has been financed from the eu budget through a fisheries partnership agreement, both at national and regional level, modelled on the recently agreed regional fisheries surveillance plan for the south-west indian ocean. at community level, the 2002 reform of the common fisheries policy also gave a boost to the policy against illegal fishing by adopting provisions on monitoring compliance with community rules and the creation of the fisheries control agency. however, despite significant progress against illegal fishing, it is far from eradicated and remains one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable management of fisheries resources and marine biodiversity. the commission therefore considers that, almost five years after the adoption of the 2002 action plan, the time has come to devise a new strategy against this type of fishing. in this context, the commission has decided that illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing will be one of the main priorities in the area of the common fisheries policy and the maritime policy this year. the commission will draw up proposals in this respect and will submit them to the member states and to this parliament during the second half of this year. the report we are discussing today is a particularly timely contribution to the work on which the commission will base its proposals. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the problem of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the report by mrs aubert and the committee on fisheries is an extremely important and encouraging step in this direction.
i am grateful to mrs aubert for her report, which reminds us of the importance of piracy on the high seas and the weak balance of the measures taken to combat it. i also thank you for your support for the amendments which, in my view, have clarified your report, by drawing the line between illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and infringements of the common fisheries policy in community waters, which is important because, although both must be stopped, the weapons to be used are completely different. one of the most important is the action of the regional fisheries organisations, which are perhaps the only possible defence against illegal activities on the high seas in a battle which is by definition international and multilateral, and whose role has also been enhanced following the amendments tabled. at a time when there is such concern about the sustainability of the marine environment and we see our own fishermen progressively being denied access to resources, it is extremely worrying that we have to witness even steps backwards from some member states, including one that i know well. how depressing that the director of external policies of the directorate-general for fisheries himself admitted last tuesday that the european union has failed to curb illegal fishing. all this at this point. it was in galicia last week that the fisheries authorities of eighteen member states began to discuss the package of measures against illegal fishing, which it seems will be presented to us, as the commissioner has said, not before the middle of the year. and the ball is in the council's court more than ever on this matter, because without a real political will on the part of the member states, without their firm commitment to harmonize actions, make them mandatory and make them a priority, next year, and the year after, we will continue as before. i hope that this will not be the case and that we will soon have an effective policy. i am very grateful to you, mr president, and let me complain once again that the fisheries debates are held at night and that any new report that has been put on the agenda is put first. let me make a serious protest on behalf of my group and myself against the way fisheries are treated in this parliament.
on behalf of the pse group. i would also like to congratulate mrs aubert on her work and on the way she has dealt with the many amendments which we have tabled for her from the socialist group. the fact is that the fao has estimated that up to 30% of fish landed comes from this type of fishing - illegal fishing - and that the european union has signed the fao international plan of action and the commission has presented in 2003 a plan to transpose it to the european level. our committee on fisheries has drawn up this own-initiative report with a view to the international meeting on illegal fishing to be held in rome at the beginning of march and so that the european commission, in its new action plan, may take account of parliament's opinion. many of the amendments tabled by my group were incorporated and i believe that thanks to them we have achieved a better definition of illegal fishing and have also incorporated issues such as the strengthening of control or the need for more international collaboration. and while it is not so much a question of introducing more restrictive measures as of better applying those which already exist, it is true that the need for an effective control and inspection regime within a common legal framework throughout the european union and, if possible, under the auspices of the community agency in vigo must be underlined. our amendments call for the entry into european ports to be refused to vessels involved in illegal fishing activities; for member states not to abandon them; for their nationals to be discouraged from using flags of convenience: importers, transporters and other sectors concerned will be asked not to tranship or trade fish caught by these vessels. we also call for cooperation between member states to strengthen controls on landings. we know that it is difficult to distinguish between legal and illegal catches, especially when the fish that is landed is not fresh but frozen or processed, and also when it is triangulated and arrives on the european market from a third country. that is why efforts are needed to identify their origin, because millions of people in the world depend on fisheries resources, and we must ensure their existence for future generations.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i too take the floor not only to thank you but also to welcome and support the report by mrs aubert. illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing not only poses a risk to biodiversity and the environment, with costs that in many cases may be directly irrecoverable, but also, as has been said, a major cost for many societies that live off fishing today and hope that future generations can continue to do so as well. in this respect, i believe that the european union has a double responsibility. one, and the most important, is to set an example for the world and to show by action and, above all, by will that this fight against illegal fishing is one of the priorities. and secondly, to take the lead in the fight against illegal fishing at world level, which means using the mechanisms that exist on the part of the european union - either through fisheries agreements or through cooperation with third countries - and always including clauses that make it possible to tackle this issue as a matter of priority. but at the same time, i think that, given that one of the fundamental problems in detecting and combating illegal fishing is precisely - as has also been said - the question of traceability, the question of monitoring fishing, in the sense that it is often not possible to know whether a catch has been caught illegally or not, is fundamental, and therefore mechanisms must be set up to improve that traceability. in this connection, i would also like to recall that in december this house adopted a resolution on eco-labelling. many of the proposals in this resolution would help to improve the prosecution of illegal fishing by means of traceability mechanisms, which are really necessary. i therefore also support the report's call for the commission to submit its proposal for eco-labelling by june 2007.
the report we are discussing today is part of a dialogue between two european institutions. this dialogue is producing fruitful results, as is, in short, the case with the european parliament, in a spirit of collaboration and understanding of the important work being carried out by the european investment bank. we have been working on this report for months. we started with it on 20 june last year and that work was also completed by a visit to the eib headquarters in september. we have also worked fruitfully with the various political groups, with all those who have tabled amendments. we have reached agreement on the incorporation of these amendments with the socialist group, the liberal group, the europe of nations group, the green group and the united left group, to whom i would like to publicly thank for their willingness to do so. this allowed the draft report to be unanimously adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on 23 january. the eib is doing a good job, and we appreciate it, in a context such as that of 2005, in which the european economy was relatively stagnant and where we had the impression that what was the structural component of this economy, its potential growth, was relatively and comparatively lower than that of the rest of the developed areas of the world. this approach is important in assessing the eib's economic activity. this action, which is ultimately aimed at strengthening the physical equipment of the european union in the form of infrastructures, makes it possible to improve the union's growth potential. the new approach, which has already been present in the eib's activity since 2005, aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises - which are undoubtedly the backbone of the european union - is also a positive approach, which we welcome and which will indeed be developed in this context. we believe that its main areas of action, namely the promotion of economic and social cohesion in the european union, the 2010 innovation initiative, environmental protection, the development of trans-european networks and the contribution to european development aid and external cooperation policy, have been successfully implemented. the report makes a first suggestion, namely that the resources available to the eib should be sufficient to carry out these ambitious policies. as a public bank, the eib is comparatively small, even when compared with the public banks of the countries that make up the european union. in relation to the broad objectives, we advise the eib to continue its work, especially in the regions whose development is lagging behind, in order to encourage recovery (catching up). we also recommend that you focus your investment efforts in those less developed regions on projects relating to innovation, the knowledge society. and also - how could it not - in the report we emphasize energy, the energy components, the improvement of security of supply and market freedom, to which the eib can also contribute. the commission has also been very active in the area of the financing of the transeuropean networks, which are absolutely crucial - as i have said before - to the development of the european economy. and as far as foreign policy is concerned, we appeal to the eib because we believe that the volume of loans granted to latin america is insufficient in relation to foreign activity in other parts of the world. as regards the methods of intervention, we welcome the intensification of cooperation with the commission in the programmes which have already been approved. we welcome the volume of resources allocated to small and mediumsized enterprises and we insist that this is a fundamental aspect which we must continue to improve for the future. we must also insist on improving access to information and transparency in this operation, which the bank is clearly improving, and we give a positive and also encouraging assessment of this in the report, so that it continues to be transparent, so that it really submits its solvency to the basel ii criteria and, in short, that it allows, through a better transmission of its role, a better knowledge of those who will be its users, starting with the financial intermediaries of the european union.
the treaty of rome established the eib as a financial institution for the pursuit of common objectives. in this context, the innovation 2010 initiative responds to the commitment to the lisbon strategy to make europe a knowledge-based economy through operations in various fields and, in particular, the training of human capital. in 2005, loans for education and training amounted to eur 2.3 billion. the amendment i tabled in committee insisted that the funding of educational projects should not be limited exclusively to higher education but should be extended to other areas. the culture of innovation must reach the whole of european education and permeate all citizens of the union from childhood. it is good, for example, that there is financial support for pilot projects in primary education. i thank the rapporteur, mr montoro, for welcoming it in this way, for the content of his report and for the consensus reached.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would like to say first of all that the socialist group will vote in favour of mr lehne's proposal as amended in the committee on legal affairs. secondly, although i am pleased that commissioner almunia is here, i think that this would be a good opportunity to have a personal exchange of views with commissioner mccreevy, because, as has been pointed out in previous speeches, the limitations of this proposal for a directive are raised. it is a proposal for a minimum directive, which raises a number of questions, for example, on the subject of financial intermediaries, the legitimate rights of shareholders and the exercise of what is called proxy voting rights. the text read to us by mr almunia, on behalf of mr mccreevy, mentions a future commission recommendation. the problem with the recommendations is that they present difficulties from the point of view of community law. mr lehne has said that these are provisions of the treaties, but at the moment we in the european parliament are following with concern the bulging of so-called soft law systems by the community institutions, which raises questions about the reliability of the law. i have the impression that this subject will have to be discussed. i hope that commissioner mccreevy, in meetings with the committee on legal affairs and the committee on economic affairs, will clarify his ideas a little bit so that we can see what we can do in order to have some assurance that it is going to go in a certain direction. the socialists are of course very concerned about protecting the rights of shareholders. we are concerned about the possibility that in a large market in the european union, financial operators can operate with complete impunity and freedom, and i have the impression that this is such an important issue for everyone, for investors and for savers, that it should be the subject of much consideration and discussion between parliament and the commission. we shall therefore vote in favour, but i hope - again - that mr mccreevy will be able to discuss with us the modalities of future changes in the legal field.
the report by mr de gucht, which i am sure will be of great interest to the house, is a very good report, and i hope that it will be followed by a number of other reports. we are joined today in the gallery, mr president, by four direct victims of that attack: jesús ramírez castanedo, who was seriously wounded in the attack; jesús abril escusa, who lost his 19-year-old son; isabel casanova ortega, who lost her 22-year-old son along with his father; and euclides antonio río grajales, who was seriously wounded in the attack. i would like to see them recognized by this house for that double reason. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
i would like to refer to the community plan to eradicate illegal fishing, which is mainly carried out at international level in the waters of developing countries, which are too poor and lack the means to control fishing activities in their jurisdiction. failure to prevent such illegal fishing results in losses and hardship for their coastal populations which depend on fish for their livelihoods and food security. at the same time, these illegal practices cause direct losses also to legitimate fishermen. and in this connection i would like to stress once again that one of the virtues of the fisheries association agreements concluded between the european union and other countries is precisely that the community deep-sea fleets have accepted the code of conduct for responsible fishing promoted by the united nations, and that their presence in those waters also means that other illegal vessels do not act with such impunity. i therefore voted in favour of the plan to eradicate illegal fishing, arguing that all fisheries agreements with third countries should be renewed, since the benefits are important and mutual, because it seriously undermines the biological balance of the seas and that this represents a high environmental risk which we cannot afford.
on behalf of the green group, although there have been five rounds of dialogue between the government of the people's republic of china and the representatives of the dalai lama since 2002, it is clear that there are fundamental differences which make it difficult to reach a final agreement that will clarify the situation in tibet in a way that is satisfactory for all parties, but at the same time fair and dignified, especially for the tibetan people. however, i am of the opinion that the responsibility of each of the two parties for not having reached an agreement is not comparable. the dalai lama, as the temporary representative of the tibetan people, has on more than one occasion expressed his desire for dialogue and agreement, and has even given up calling for complete independence in favour of genuine autonomy which guarantees respect for tibet's ethnic, linguistic, cultural and religious identity. in this respect, i believe it is the chinese government which should show a better will and at least accept the resumption of dialogue with the will to reach a good final agreement. i therefore urge the european commission, the council and the member states to use all the existing spaces to support a new round of sino-tibetan dialogue, and i believe it is particularly important, as has been said, to use the negotiations on a framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and china, which began on 17 january, to demonstrate the community's commitment to dialogue and a just and lasting solution in relation to tibet.
mr president, in the bay of cádiz, in the municipality of puerto real, in spain, the multinational delphi is threatening to close down the plant and put 1,600 workers on the street, and 4,500 indirectly. it is one of many multinationals that have received public subsidies, over 60 million euros, to be able to carry out all production. moreover, the company had committed itself to maintaining these jobs until 2010. we are faced with the scandalous case of yet another relocation affecting the european union. i would ask the commission, and parliament itself, to try to legislate clearly to prevent a new kind of piracy. these are companies that benefit from public subsidies and then immediately afterwards they close the company, relocate it and leave thousands of workers on the street. the bay of cadiz region cannot withstand this crisis. i therefore call directly on the european commission to help us, together with the institutions, in this case the junta de andalucía, the municipalities concerned and the trade unions, to prevent this employers' strike.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at last in this year's wimbledon tennis tournament the female winner will receive the same amount of money as her male counterpart. it is a victory for women, to which we have contributed in this parliament. consciously and deliberately paying women less is just one of the reasons why women in the european union earn 15% less than men. there are other reasons behind the scenes: more women working part-time, on temporary contracts, in the lowest paid sectors, more difficulty in accessing positions of responsibility, etc. equal pay has been part of european law since its inception, but prohibiting discrimination has not eliminated the pay gap. to achieve this, courageous responses are needed, such as the one given by the socialist government in my country, spain, by passing a law on equality. i am also pleased that the socialist party has launched a campaign to denounce this situation on 8 march. i ask you to join her in putting an end to wage discrimination against women once and for all. in the european year of equality, this can be our challenge.
opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. madam president, i am speaking at this sitting as the opinion of the committee on the internal market, which adopted the opinion by a large majority. some of its contents have been incorporated, either in the spirit or in a more explicit way, into the report which mr hasse ferreira has presented to us here this afternoon. i would like to highlight some of the concepts contained in the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection or the characteristics of what are called social services of general interest. all these services are undoubtedly part of what is broadly and perhaps difficultly defined as the european social model, a model which they have helped to shape. another aspect that nobody disputes is that the principle of subsidiarity must be applied to these services in full and that it is therefore up to the member states to define not only the field in which they are applied but also the model and the system. there is also one issue which i consider to be fully accepted and that is that we are in a dynamic environment in which both the demands of society and, therefore, the incorporation of new social services are constantly evolving and changing. as rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would like to draw attention to the need to make the provision of these social services compatible with legal certainty and free competition. because we must not forget that each state has different models for implementing services. in public services, social services must be provided by public administrations, but they do not necessarily have to provide them directly. i believe that this parliament and the commission must be aware of the need to ensure, while respecting the specific nature of these social services of general interest - especially because of the job creation that this entails - the legal certainty of those service providers who wish to do so throughout the european union.
mr president, i must begin, as i am obliged to do, by thanking our colleague mr howitt for the extraordinary work he has done and the extraordinary openness he has shown in opening up to the contributions that other members of the employment committee have presented to him. it is also showing great capacity and flexibility for a complex dossier such as this, by opening itself to dialogue and consultation with other groups in the house. i believe, as has already been said here this afternoon, that corporate social responsibility is good in itself. this should not lead us to think that it is not possible to improve the framework we have now and the relatively short experience we have gained in the european union. i believe that the problems of the world are getting worse at a significant rate, both environmental problems and the problems of people excluded from all kinds of rights. i therefore believe that an additional effort must be made. mr. howitt is the only thing he asks of us in his report. i hope that the commission, whose communication has been met with quite a split and some not very positive opinions, will see this as an opportunity to improve its approach to social responsibility. because there is still a lot that can be done, away from false debates about voluntary or non-voluntary. further progress can be made towards establishing criteria for making liability objective. companies may be free to adopt codes of conduct, but they cannot be free to comply with the codes of conduct they have adopted. there has to be transparency, there has to be more than philanthropy in this idea of corporate social responsibility. europeans have a model for the world made on the basis of the sustainability of our economic model for ourselves and for others. the monitoring and verification of these freely assumed obligations can be advanced. we have directives in the european union, directives which have not been transposed into the member states, on company law, on environmental liability. the commission can make commitments and not think that everything is laissez faire, laissez passer.
mr president, commissioner, what seems obvious at first sight is that there are more and more companies which see social and environmental responsibility as an opportunity, as an instrument for sustainable development, for growth and for job creation, and also as a good instrument to help companies and workers to adapt better to the changes demanded by the globalised economy of the 21st century. i would like to raise two questions in particular. firstly, it is clear that businesses are the main actors and that other parties such as consumers or non-governmental organisations must also be taken into account. but above all, i think that the central role of the trade unions must also be taken into account, and in no case can codes of conduct replace the essential role of the trade unions and collective bargaining. the second point is that it is clear that corporate social responsibility must be a factor which helps to be more competitive, but behind the labels linked to corporate social responsibility there must be concrete realities and not just mere propaganda. because if we do, we will devalue them and, moreover, consumers will obviously not trust these labels and we will destroy the sense of social responsibility of companies themselves and their ability to create more competitive companies. there are certainly many companies today who are making a determined commitment to corporate social responsibility and, of course, they know that it is an added value and i am sure that those who do it clearly and cleanly will have no problem with that being verified with objective data.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the european parliament, in particular the committee on women's rights and gender equality and the rapporteur, mrs sartori, as well as the other committees of the parliament, for their opinion on the report on the roadmap for equality between women and men. this plurality and diversity of views reflects the intention of the plan, which concerns all the policies of the european union, both internal and external. this plurality also reflects the fact that gender equality concerns all of us and is far from being a women's issue. parliament's report is an expression of our shared commitment to work towards greater equality between women and men, thanks to the instruments that the treaty gives us. with the plan, we reaffirm the need to develop a strategic and multiannual approach to equality issues. we also reaffirm the need for an approach that includes specific measures and promotion of gender equality in all areas. the commission notes and welcomes convergence of views on many issues between the institutions, as your report shows. let me point out some of them. gender equality is primarily a question of women's rights and status in society. equality is first and foremost a requirement and an unconditional right. legislation is a prerequisite if we are to establish the foundations and conditions of genuine equality. in this developed environment, the community has a legal framework in this area that ranks among the most advanced in the world. however, it is still necessary for these laws to translate into practice in terms of reducing inequalities and actually improving the status of women. the existence of laws and rights does not automatically mean the full exercise of those rights for our citizens. our efforts to ensure the realisation of these rights in everyday life must be stepped up. the plan and the report of parliament show that the commission and the european parliament will continue to be allies in this respect, and i welcome that. this legal framework must also reflect and respond to current challenges and needs and adapt where necessary. the commission therefore committed itself in the plan to review the part of the legislation that was not subject to recasting with a view to modernising it if necessary. we took the first important step with regard to the maternity and parental leave directive and in october last year we launched the first phase of formal consultations with the social partners. we are also currently assessing the application of directive 86613 on selfemployed women and women who contribute to the pursuit of this activity, as well as directive 797 on equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security, in order to decide whether any amendments need to be proposed. but there is an economic issue besides the rights issue, because it is very important for women to be economically independent throughout their lives. the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs sets out a framework and objectives for improving the position of women in the labour market. although we have recently seen a very significant increase in women's participation in the labour market, women still face differences and disadvantages simply because they are women. for example, in the area of pay, despite the existence of legislation, women continue to be paid less for the same work, on average by 15%. the commission has already started to address the issue of equal pay for equal work and intends to continue in this direction. we'll be working on the pay gap statement for the next few months. the aim is to begin to address the causes of this disparity, despite years of legislation, and to propose changes and directions for action in this area. however, economic independence will only be achieved by developing genuine policies on reconciling work, private and family life, not only for women but also for men. we know that one of the main obstacles to women planning to enter or continue their careers in a relaxed way is related to the difficulty of reconciling family and work life, especially when we know that women continue to carry out a large part of family and domestic responsibilities. the commission has therefore consulted the social partners to see whether there is a need to modernise the legislation in this respect. the proposals of the social partners will be important for possible further developments. we believe that this is an area where substantial progress can be made. in addition, we have quantified targets for childcare services, the barcelona targets. e year 2010 is approaching and therefore efforts need to be stepped up, including through the possibilities offered by the structural funds to support member states to develop childcare structures. it then falls within the framework of activities eligible for funding from the european social fund. as regards decision-making, it is clear that women are still missing from boards or high-level positions of responsibility, whether at the political or economic level. i'm a strong believer in the importance of role models and i'm convinced of the importance of informal networks in a working career. one of the priorities will be to create networks for women in economic and political decision-making and to collect and disseminate data on women's participation through our database. the report also addresses a very important aspect, gender budgeting. we need to be able to know the resources allocated to our priorities and to ensure that the necessary financial resources are allocated to support those priorities. gender budgeting is an excellent tool because it could allow us to use this data. in the light of methodological progress, there is therefore a need to improve the availability and collection of such data and the exchange of best practices. we are aware of this and therefore recommend a pragmatic approach in this area. we are launching a study to assess the feasibility of including a gender perspective in the budget process. let me assure you of the commission's commitment to support the implementation of the policy objectives in the area of gender equality by making appropriate funding available. many programmes or grants already cover measures in the area of gender equality. i am of course referring to the european social fund, which aims to support measures in favour of equality between men and women, but also to other smaller programmes aimed at supporting the development of public policies on equality, such as the new integrated programme progress, and i am confident that the european institute for gender equality will play a major role in raising awareness of these issues in the coming years, in particular by collecting and providing data on the situation and status of women. at this level, the aim is to ensure that all these funds are complementary in support of a single objective. i share your view that the increasing diversity of our society, for example in terms of ethnicity, is posing new challenges. we need to study better the issue of the various forms of discrimination to which migrant women are exposed. the european year of equal opportunities will provide us with a platform to exchange views on this topic, as one of the issues it addresses is multiple discrimination. combating violence against women and trafficking in women is also a priority for the union. we have developed a set of measures, mainly under the daphne programme, which is concerned with combating all forms of violence against women in europe, such as sexual exploitation, female genital mutilation or trafficking in women. promoting equality in development and external policies is also very important, as the european union is the world's leading donor. the values that guide our actions within the union must be the values we defend towards third countries. we need to make better use of our funding, for example, to strengthen the capacity and reach of organisations fighting for women's rights around the world. as you know, this issue is at the heart of the communication on gender equality and development policy, which the commission adopted on 8 march to mark international women's day. the gender equality plan shall provide for control mechanisms in the form of an annual work programme, a mid-term review and a final review. i attach great importance to these mechanisms, since they are important tools for the good news. through such tools, european citizens can monitor the implementation of our commitments on gender equality.
opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. madam president, as you know very well, we in the committee on development have always paid close attention to the situation of women in these countries. the work plan for equality between women and men 2006-2010 again emphasises the problems of discrimination that we have been denouncing: the fight against violence, against discrimination in employment and pay, the lack of public spaces where women can make their voices heard, etc. we congratulate the commission on addressing all these problems in the new work plan, but we must insist on its effective implementation and to this end we must take stock of previous plans and open a public debate on the results which have not always been as positive as might have been hoped. this time, moreover, the external dimension has been considered. the european union has an obligation to integrate the gender dimension into all policies and programmes in the field of cooperation, development and humanitarian aid, and to do so, from the outset, with financial programming. the millennium development goals, adopted in 2000 by all un member countries, put women at the centre. it is therefore essential to promote gender equality. i would ask the commission to put women's rights on the agenda of the meetings it holds in the framework of political dialogue with third countries, especially those who are our neighbours.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, both the report by the rapporteur of the committee responsible for the subject, the committee on legal affairs, mrs lévai, and the opinion of the committee on culture, mr mavrommatis, and the various speeches we have heard so far, show that the european parliamentarians are taking a fairly uniform line with regard to the commission's recommendation. firstly, there is a formal objection: the use of a recommendation, of an instrument called 'soft law' in the european union, is always very dangerous, given that the european union has its own legislative instruments, such as the framework directive proposed by mrs lévai. and secondly, there is a fundamental objection. because at this point in time the commission's recommendation may already be having undesirable effects on the structure of the intellectual property market, which is subject to certain oligopolies, i.e. the so-called 'big ones', the main organisations controlling broadcasting. the commission's recommendation may lead these 'adults' to withdraw their repertoires from the existing system of collective management organisations which allow for a guarantee of rights, and if that were to happen, the result would be that 'adults', i.e. small organisations for the protection of intellectual property, would not be able to protect intellectual rights. and in the matter of culture, in the matter of music, the most important thing is not the market, the most important thing is the production of music. the culture of each of the peoples making up the peoples of europe. it is not a question of creating a large market, because in that large market the so-called gresham's law is applied, under which bad currency displaces good. in other words, we are about to reach a situation in which a completely unified market, with a few 'larger' or very important organisations, ends up monopolizing the market, imposing its conditions on authors and ultimately preventing intellectual creation from taking place in the european union. we therefore support mrs lévai's report and mr mavrommatis's opinion and do not think it appropriate at this stage to adopt any amendments to those reports.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the following is the report by wolf klinz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 92/49/eec and directives 2002/83/ec, 2004/39/ec, 2005/68/ec and 2006/48/ec as regards the procedural rules and the criteria for prudential assessment of acquisitions and increases in shareholdings in the financial sector (com ((2006) 0507 - c6-0298/2006 - 2006/0166 (cod)) (a6-0027/2007).
mr president, crossborder issues and the acquisition of shares in banks, insurance and investment companies are less common than in other sectors. one barrier is the uncertainty in the prudential assessment processes before national supervisors due to the absence of criteria on the suitability of the acquirer and the detailed regulation of the procedures. the proposal for a directive addresses these problems and harmonises their treatment. the amendments adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs clarify the requirements, facilitate supervisory action, protect confidentiality and improve control. the overall result is positive and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr klinz. a sensitive issue is that in cases of large dilution of ownership with low participation, a lot of influence can be achieved. we have therefore defended the obligation to notify any significant participation and we welcome the possibility for member states to set a transparency threshold below 10% in order to receive information and to determine its existence.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on community action on the provision of crossborder health services, by karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0001/2007 - b6-0013/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank members for a very interesting debate, which will be very useful and will provide guidance for us in the next steps of drafting a proposal, along with the outcome of contributions from the other stakeholders, from consultations and from the member states. just to cover a few issues: first of all, we will certainly be taking into account the health objectives and social values adopted by the health ministers last june, and this will be one of the considerations in our proposal. at the same time, we will also be looking at the important issue of patients’ rights, which is part of our consultation on community action. it is clear that we will look at these issues; what tools will be used will, of course, be decided after proper analysis of the consultation and based on the responses provided. i would like to confirm that what we plan to do is to take a step forward and not to reduce or undermine patients’ rights as recognised by the court, but to improve them and make them work, make them more concrete, and to make it possible to apply them equally among all european citizens. information is an important factor in this respect. as we have already stated, we will take subsidiarity into account. however, i have to remind you first of all that we do not propose harmonisation of national health assistance – this is not the intention. but, at the same time, i have to remind you of the european court of justice judgment on the watts case, which provided that there are situations where member states, based on other treaty provisions, will have to apply to amend and adjust their national healthcare systems. finally, i think there is a misunderstanding here. first of all, there are no proposals in the communication because it is precisely a consultation document. we did not want to pre-empt the positions of parliament, the member states and the stakeholders, so it is intentional that there is no proposal at this stage. it is just a description of the problems. freedom of movement and patient mobility is not something which is being introduced by the european commission – i think we discussed that in the past as well – it is something which has been recognised, whether we like it or not – and i hope we like it! – by the european court of justice, which has established that the internal market rules apply also to health, even if this is publicly funded. so this is not a question of a commission initiative introducing a new concept but how we in the commission, together with parliament and the member states, can make this concept, this reality, work for the benefit of patients without being to the detriment of the national healthcare systems, their viability and their operation. this is a big challenge for us but i think it is a big opportunity as well, and we can make it work for the benefit of citizens.
the debate is closed by a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the joint debate on - the oral question to the commission on one action, one vote, by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0004/2007 - b6-0014/2007), and - the oral question to the commission on proportionality between ownership and control in eu listed companies, by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-0014/2007 - b6-0016/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank members for their questions. my colleague, mr mccreevy, regrets that he cannot be here this evening, but i can assure you that he will be informed of the results and content of the debate this evening. it is true that a study was launched in september, and its intention is to cover the various aspects of proportionality between capital and control, how this is applied or not applied in the member states, how it affects the deviation from the principle and how it affects institutional investors. the study was also designed to analyse the relevant regulatory national frameworks. the contractors were chosen in the usual simple way. there was a public invitation to tender and the choice was simple. the best author was chosen and the specific contractors made and presented the best offer. however, i have to clarify two things: there will not be an impact study, so research will be carried out in a factual way on the current situation in the member states, and no proposals or recommendations will be brought forward. both the contractors and the subcontractors have a strong record of original, independent, high-quality research in areas of company law and corporate governance, and their european presence constitutes a significant advantage in terms of providing comparative analysis covering different legal traditions. the subcontractors are of high standing and specialise in corporate law and securities regulation, and the study team provided the best offer based on scientific competence, professional reputation and integrity. as already mentioned, the study will cover multiple voting rights, non-voting preferential shares, company pyramids and other instruments which fulfil the same function of protecting controlling shareholders, and the study will include golden shares and the attribution of special rights for public authorities, as already mentioned. in this respect, the commission has noted at this stage the advocate-general’s opinion on the volkswagen law. the advocate-general considers this to be as an unjustifiable restriction that infringes eu law. the commission awaits the court’s judgment. as far as the directive on takeover bids is concerned, we know it aims at eliminating certain defences applied by companies in takeover situations. one such defence for companies is to leverage voting rights vis-à-vis capital, but experience shows that, faced with potential takeovers, the vast majority of member states are reluctant to neutralise their companies’ disproportionate voting rights. nevertheless, it is still early days for the implementation of a directive. the commission does not intend to reopen a debate on the takeover directive at this stage. whatever the policy indications the commission draws from the proportionality study are, they will not apply to takeover bids. the commission believes that these two should be considered as two separate initiatives. to conclude, i would like to emphasise that a decision on any future steps on the issue under discussion on the proportionality issue will be taken in the light of the outcome of the study. whether we present a proposal, and what the content of this proposal will be, will depend on the outcome of the study and of the impact assessment that is currently being carried out in parallel. we are therefore still at the study and first procedural phase. we will, as always, take very seriously the position and the views of the european parliament.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we have to thank mr kyprianou for being with us until late at night, although the discussion would probably have been much more interesting if we had had commissioner mccreevy, as we have a permanent dialogue with him on these kinds of issues. clearly this is a discussion that is just beginning. parliament and the council adopted the directive on capital concentrations. we have recently adopted a directive on shareholder rights, and it is clear that fundamental problems arise with regard to the structure of companies. the democratic principle of 'one vote, one action' is not working at the moment in the european union as a whole and, as mrs berès has pointed out, we now find ourselves with the possibility of large-scale market manipulation by a few operators. it is clear that impact studies can be useful, but impact studies are useful if they are done properly. the concern we have in this parliament is that the wolves are being entrusted with the care of the sheep. in other words, if the impact studies are carried out by large companies specialised in market manipulation, the recommendations of those companies will be in the direction of greater market manipulation. as mr lehne has pointed out, the virtual decision of the court of justice on the volkswagen case will have an impact on the future development of european union law, but in no case would this parliament like the commission to follow the path of recommendation, of the so-called 'soft law' of the european union. there is a more appropriate way, which is through legislation, although this may not be the time to legislate yet, considering that we have not yet had an assessment of what is happening in the field of capital concentrations. there is, at the moment, a kind of great revolution in europe with capital concentrations, with great political impact and great uncertainty in cross-border operations, with the coexistence, for example, of public protection systems with private systems. it is a matter of deep political concern, but it also has legal elements. i think it is important for parliament to point out, firstly, that parliament does not like the use of the so-called 'soft law', that a legislative burden is needed, that parliament welcomes impact studies, but that they must be carried out in an objective manner and not by handing them over to sectors which can do so for their own benefit, and that it may not be necessary to rush into any kind of legislative measures without having first studied the situation. but i think that we are, as i said before, at a time of great change in the whole system of the european union, and the consolidation of european law on mergers and shareholder rights requires much more study and, above all, much greater cooperation between parliament and the commission. i hope that mr kyprianou will convey to mr mccreevy our interest in this subject, our concern, and our desire that we continue to discuss it between the commission and parliament as it should be done.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the members for the debate. i will be very brief. first of all, i would like to say to mr medina ortega that i am sorry that i could not stimulate a more interesting debate, since i am not the commissioner responsible. however, it was very interesting for me because it reminds me of my previous life as a lawyer. i find these issues extremely interesting. let me assure you first of all that i will of course brief and inform my colleague. however, i understand that you will all have the opportunity to discuss these issues further with the commissioner responsible because he will be attending both the econ and juri committees sometime in march and all these issues will be taken into account. i would like to repeat that what the commission does will depend on the study and the impact assessment. with regard to the study, the choice of contractors was made on the basis of our rules and regulations, taking into account the requirement of the european community. again, i would like to remind you that it is a factual study that will not put forward recommendations. this will be done by the commission itself. so, i am sure that the outcome will be a balanced and proportional view, depending of course on the results of the study.
mrs berès, i am sure commissioner kyprianou has understood that perfectly. the debate is closed.
i declare the 2006/2007 session of the european parliament closed.
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order under rule 166 concerning annex ii(a) of the rules of procedure of this house. i tabled an oral question to the commission which was supposed to be answered today and i have received a formal answer from the presidency saying that my question was not acceptable, apparently in application of annex ii(a) of the rules of procedure, which says that a question cannot be admissible if it has been answered in the previous three months. but no such question has been answered in the previous three months. apparently this provision is being applied with regard to a reply given by the commission to an oral question with debate. well, annex ii, which is quoted by the presidency, applies to questions by meps regulated by rule 109 of the rules of procedure, and the oral question with debate is regulated by rule 108 of the rules of procedure. so, since annex ii is a restriction of the rights of a member of parliament, an extensive interpretation could not be allowed to apply annex ii to questions in rule 108 instead of rule 109. so, i would ask the presidency to reconsider and to allow the question to be tabled in application of the rules of procedure.
mr president, commissioner, your words were beautiful, full of hope and good intentions, but as usual we have to get down to reality, particularly when we are talking about the budget. commissioner, the last document parliament has available to discuss budgetary priorities was presented in december last year: these are the resolutions which accompanied the budget currently in progress, the 2007 budget. the question we would ask you is whether you consider that these resolutions, which we adopted by an overwhelming majority in this house and which you very warmly welcomed, have been incorporated into the annual political strategy document. we do not think they have been incorporated, and that is a problem, commissioner, because we are always in the same situation: parliament draws up a set of guidelines which should serve the next budgetary procedure, you draw up your political priorities in this annual political strategy document, add a budgetary component to them, but you do not take into account, or at least do not take into account sufficiently in depth, everything that parliament asked you to do the year before. and so we go year after year. we still do not find a perfect match between the budgetary procedures and the legislative programme of the european commission and that is why, many times, the two institutions work in parallel, but we do not finish adjusting our systems. you guys are playing with the calendar. you are drawing up political priorities which, as the rapporteur for this year's budget, mr virrankoski, says, parliament has no indication as yet of what the political priorities are that the european commission will be handling for the current year and that indicates that, when the budget is drawn up, we will again find that the budgetary priorities of this parliament do not coincide with the political priorities shown by the european commission. this is shown, for example, in the table of financial implications. you want to finance these political priorities by means of certain increases and some reductions; you ask us for 890 new jobs in the commission, although you hope to obtain most of them by means of internal readjustments; on the other hand, you hope to make adjustments in the executive agencies. madam commissioner, as every year we feel some confusion and we hope that in the course of this year's budgetary procedure we can reach agreements which do not mean major budgetary tensions with the council, let alone with you.
mr president, commissioner, i am very grateful to you for your clear statement, which i found a little short. the truth is that 2008 is going to be a key year in moving forward the debate on a new budget for the european union which should accompany the constitutional developments, which we hope to see consolidated throughout this year. we need a european budget that is up to our ambitions and the demands, above all, of the european citizens. the situation seems clear and favorable. the ecofin report has just said that we are facing a strong economic situation, to the point where the economic indicators are obvious, and it therefore highlights the extremely weak position of the share of wages and employment in european gdp. mr juncker said so and all the ministers have followed him. it is time, therefore, to talk about sharing the fruits of this growth, and this is not just a concern of governments and the social partners, it is a demand of the european citizens. it has been clearly stated that the present situation is unsustainable and also carries with it serious risks of devolution: the poverty of young people, women, the elderly and children; the lack of prospects that discourages births; and the over-indebtedness that is becoming more and more worrying. the commission's programme for 2008 proposes, however, as a first measure of social solidarity, the management or implementation of the solidarity fund, which is intended to alleviate the situation of those made redundant by the restructuring caused by globalisation. we believe that it is not enough, that we need initiatives that encourage investment: public investment that drags private investment along. so, in the run-up to 2008 and the next three-year cycle of the lisbon strategy, i propose that we return to investment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them.
madam president, mr vice-president, i am particularly pleased to be able to congratulate you on the success of the commission, which is now being overseen by the german presidency and supported by the efficiency of its services, with a certain spanish stamp, if i may say so. this success is also due to the pressure exerted, among others, by this parliament, which from the outset supported the commission in its open skies strategy, encouraging it even when difficulties were growing, as has been the case in these complex transatlantic relations. it is an agreement which has the great virtue of strengthening these transatlantic relations at a key moment for both sides: the eve of elections in the united states and the need to make progress on environmental requirements for the aviation sector in europe. it also helps to strengthen european identity and the european union's identity as a global partner. in that sense, i think this agreement is a good sign for the citizens. it is also an agreement which makes a decisive contribution to the lisbon strategy and, in particular, to antitrust immunity, in order to facilitate trade agreements and the development of partnerships between companies, which will surely promote the growth and democratisation of travel between citizens. it also contains provisions on technical cooperation in relation to climate change which i hope will prove useful in addressing the impact of the aviation sector. there are also, and i welcome this, provisions on the control of companies and, as regards the security that mr costa has mentioned, i would really prefer that we first analyse in depth the results of the american system, since its reliability has at times been put into considerable doubt. we must now finally break down the last remaining resistance in the council and i hope that the work of our colleague, mr saïd el khadraoui, will be useful to him in this respect.
madam president, good relations between the united states and the european union are essential on both sides of the atlantic, even if some people would not like it to be so. fortunately, the days are long gone when columbus arrived in the new world in an ecologically acceptable way. and far away are the days of monopolistic exaltation that so much delay has brought to europe. the european commission has just concluded an air transport agreement with the united states which opens up new horizons for european airlines. mr vice-president of the commission, may i convey my warmest congratulations on all the work you have done. i would also like to thank its director, mr daniel calleja, and, if i may, mr vice-president, a mention of the spirit which i am sure is in this agreement, also of his predecessor, mrs loyola de palacio. i sincerely believe that this is a major achievement for the commission. i hope that the council will approve this agreement as soon as possible. the bilateral agreements between the united states and the member states need to be replaced by broader agreements. and if the agreement can be applied from october, as the commission intends, so much the better. when this is the case, when the single sky is a reality, european citizens and businesses will enjoy a host of advantages: common rules on both sides of the atlantic, the possibility of opening up new passenger and freight routes, and lower costs that will result in greater competitiveness for businesses and our air transport. all this should be a benefit to the consumer in the final price of his tickets. the ultimate objective of these agreements is the future creation of a free-flight area between the united states and the european union, thereby complying with the lisbon strategy and strengthening the much-needed transatlantic relationship.
the commission's vice-president madam president, i would like to thank the members and all the speakers very much for their support and their very interesting contribution to this important debate. there is no doubt that we are on the verge of a historic agreement for transatlantic relations, a historic agreement also for the advancement of aviation in the world, for the democratization of air transport, as has been emphasized, and for making it accessible to the greatest number of people. i shall not go into the benefits of the agreement which have been highlighted by mr jarzembowski and mr el khadraoui, among others, whom i thank in particular for their initiative. the access of airlines from any european country to any point in the united states, without discrimination on the basis of nationality, is one of the most important benefits. this will, above all, allow us, mr president costa, to resolve certain legal problems which have arisen as a result of the open sky rulings. another huge benefit for consumers is more choice at better prices. and we're opening up to 60% of the world's traffic. it should be remembered that there is a joint committee which will play a key role in implementing the agreement, in discussing social issues, in dealing with ownership and control, competition, aid and environmental problems. some of you have raised the issue of security, including mrs hennis-plasschaert. the agreement contains crucial provisions to facilitate controls on both sides of the atlantic and to eventually have equivalent systems to move towards one-stop security. on the environmental aspects, i will say to mrs lichtenberger in particular that she is right. we are going to have a much more effective cooperation with the federal aviation administration. in this connection, we shall review the way in which we operate flights over the atlantic to reduce their flight paths. we will also look for ways to use fuel efficiently and reduce emissions. so there's a whole environmental component to this. a number of you have mentioned the cabotage problem, including mr kohlíček. the possibility of operating cabotage flights in the united states is controversial; we won't be able to have that option at first. cabotage will also not be allowed for american companies: thus, an american company is not allowed to transport passengers or cargo between frankfurt and berlin. mrs sinnott, the agreement will also benefit regional airports by opening up new possibilities with the removal of existing restrictions. mr. rack and several of you have stressed the safety issues. the united states has acknowledged the importance of working towards common practices and standards to reduce as much as possible the divergences between the european union and the united states on these issues and will take into account measures already applied within the european union. mr simpson, the transatlantic zone is obviously not going to be built in one go. this is indeed a first step, but it is already very closely linked to the second step: europe can suspend access rights for americans if they are slow and if there is no progress. so we have the means to act to ensure that there really is a second step towards our final goal. i would like to say to mr kirkhope that since the united states has not yet agreed to change its 25% rule, we have reserved the possibility of limiting their investment in european companies to the same amount, this is part of the rebalancing. madam president, you asked me to be brief. i would therefore like to apologise to the speakers for not having time to respond to them in detail. i would like to thank all the speakers and also say to the members who are from member states which do not benefit from the open skies agreements, and in particular to the irish members who have spoken, that there is a willingness on our part to extend to all member states the benefit of this opening up of transatlantic air transport. mrs de veyrac and other speakers stressed that this was the result of a long process. i would like to take this opportunity to express my thoughts on mrs loyola de palacio, who also did a great deal of work on this first stage, which i believe is important for the future of europe and the transatlantic relations, for the economy and for employment. (applause) i would like to thank
i am simply proposing a slight amendment to the amendment, for reasons of legal rigour. the amendment would read as follows: 'trafficking and to take an initiative towards the council for a communitarisation of european policy'.
member of the commission. of course, i do not have a magic wand to predict when that moment will be, but i think that we are moving in that direction. at this very moment, by trying to establish our research methods in a coherent way, based on industrial needs from the bottom up, we are increasing the potential that we will reach conclusions as fast as possible. but until that time, which i sincerely hope is not so far away, we will have to drive hybrid cars. i have one of them at home myself.
member of the commission. it is not an easy question. i would say that the targets the council adopted just a few days ago are ambitious, but very much needed. personally, i believe – and, indeed, the commission believes – that there is no other option. i think it is very important to view the limits the environment is putting in front of us as a true business opportunity, because i sincerely believe that whoever best understands that will also lead in the business community, in several areas, including those mentioned here such as, of course, environmental protection.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is very well aware of the definite imbalance between male and female researchers. the latest available statistics show that, in all disciplines, over 50% of graduates, but only 15% of professors, are female. in science, engineering and technology, the figures are 34% for female graduates and 9% for female professors respectively. the commission agrees that this is a waste of talent and resources. since 1999, several documents by the commission have addressed the participation of women in european research. the commission is devoted to gathering reliable statistical data in order to view the complete situation and it publishes these results regularly in a brochure entitled ‘she figures’. this brochure was published in 2003 and 2006, and the next publication is expected in 2009. since the fifth framework programme, the commission has also provided financial support to studies and action in the field of women in science. in addition, under the sixth framework programme, a budget of eur 15.7 million has been devoted to women in science. several projects are ongoing: addressing the need to provide role models to encourage women to pursue a career in science, for instance. the 2005 competitiveness council conclusions led member states to set a goal of 25% of women in leading positions in the public sector. in this regard, an expert group on women in research decision-making has begun to look at the formal and informal barriers which make it difficult for women to reach top-level positions in research. under the new framework programme, a similar expert group will look at the issue of scientific excellence and potential gender bias in the evaluation of scientific excellence. in the seventh framework programme, the line of action with regard to gender issues is divided into three main areas of activity. firstly, in order to strengthen the role of women in scientific research, we will finance projects to compare positive action schemes for women in research decision-making positions, which will cover europe, the us, canada and australia. secondly, under gender dimension of research, the areas of action in the seventh framework programme will include gender issues as regards the definition and measurement of scientific excellence. for instance, an analysis of all research carried out in the eu on issues of discrimination and disadvantages for female researchers will be financed through this type of activity. thirdly and finally, as regards mainstreaming gender in community research policy and programmes, work programmes under the cooperation-specific programme encourage female participation. the commission also continues to have a target of 40% of females on evaluation panels and this is monitored regularly. in addition, we have planned to provide training and guidance to various researchers on how to mainstream gender in research. whatever we do in the seventh framework programme, it is and will be an important policy statement and will also be important for a number of research organisations who participate in the framework programme. we will have only a limited impact on the situation on the ground in europe. thus, we are also looking for new ideas on which the commission could take action or member states could take action with the support of the commission. therefore we intend to make this a question in its own right in the era green paper. the more the specific situation and needs of researchers in europe are recognised, with regard to mobility or portability of social security rights for example, the more scope there could be for addressing the specific role of women in research. the era green paper will soon be discussed by the commission and i would like to invite members to actively participate in the era debate which ensues. furthermore, i am relying on your strong support on this and other issues. in conclusion, i should like to emphasise that we have opted for a long-term approach based on constant efforts and continuous support in promoting the role of women in the world of science, using the measures and activities i have just explained.
i am very grateful to you, mr potočnik, for your proposals. the point, as you have said, is that europe must make the most of its research potential and, in this respect, excellent women must have the same opportunities as excellent men. in practice, this is not always the case. i would also like to ask you to what extent the commission - while not renouncing, of course, excellence as its first criterion - could also, as it has done on other occasions, value gender balance when assessing projects, or value the fact that these projects are led by women. a second question is whether they will take steps to ensure that the programme committees, high-level groups, working groups, etc., have a gender balanced composition and that the same is true of all other activities funded by the european union.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. you know that the commission has only set benchmarks in its decision on co2 emissions from vehicles. one of the key values is to increase the share of biofuels. there is no concrete programme yet on how to achieve this increase in the share of biofuels, especially since the european council only adopted the commission's proposal on this matter last friday. the commission will now make the appropriate proposals very quickly. i can tell you, however, that the general feeling is that we in europe will be able to solve the problem by blending biofuels with conventional fuels produced in refineries. we believe that we should focus on second generation biofuels to avoid harmful environmental side effects. biofuels are supported under the common agricultural policy by the single area payment. as you know, farmers cannot grow food crops on land that has been abandoned, but they can grow non-food crops, including crops for the production of biofuels. the cultivation of these crops, including sugar beet, can be encouraged by granting energy crop premiums of eur 45 per hectare. this scheme has now been extended to all member states. the new eu rural and regional development policy also includes support measures for renewable energy. the same applies to the research framework programme, which focuses mainly on second generation biofuels.
the next item is the report by mrs bernadette bourzai, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on the marketing of beef and veal from bovine animals aged 12 months or less (com (2006) 0487 - c6-0330/2006 - 2006/0162 (cns)) (a6-0006/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i am grateful for the contributions made to this debate towards finding a solution on how to label these bovine animals of less than 12 months. mr graefe zu baringdorf called them ‘happy animals’. as i said at the outset, the majority of these amendments should not create any difficulties. i think we are all along the same lines in trying to simplify our legislation as much as possible without jeopardising the system. however, there are amendments that cannot be accepted. this is the case for amendments 2, 11 and 16 in particular, concerning the display of information on commercial documents. this would put an additional burden on the sector. similarly, amendments 1 and 9, regarding the extension of the field of application to cover cooked products, are not indispensable. finally, amendments 8 and 21 would not clarify the approval procedure for pdos and pgis and would also overly complicate the amendment procedure of the different annexes in the proposal. with regard to amendment 12, aimed at marketing the use of sale descriptions established for meat of the second category of these animals –those between 8 and 12 months – i am prepared to try to find a solution with the ministers on the usefulness of this option. finally, even if this bovine issue has been a difficult one, i think we would face even more severe difficulties to try to find a label for mr martinez!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report by mary lou mcdonald, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interest of the european community, the revised convention on maritime labour of 2006 of the international labour organisation (com (2006) 0288 - c6-0241/2006 - 2006/0103 (cns)) (a6-0019/2007).
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would first like to thank mrs mcdonald again. i would also point out that the ilo convention is a first response. it will, by raising labour standards, allow fairer competition. the commission has also undertaken a very thorough study of the ferry sector. the commission will assess the relevance and appropriateness of a new proposal for a directive on this subject at a later stage. i also want to say that we are aware that the december 2008 deadline is ambitious, but it is realistic. the ilo has developed an action plan for the entry into force of the maritime labour convention in 2010 and at the latest in 2011. the commission, by proposing the deposit of the instruments of ratification before the end of 2008, ensures that the member states will be in step with the planned timetable. in line with ilo rules, if member states deposit their instruments of ratification by the end of 2008 at the latest, the convention would enter into force before the beginning of 2010. so you see, it's essential that we stick to that date. i will also answer mr navarro and mrs panayotopoulos. in parallel with the european parliament's work on the opinion on the draft decision authorizing ratification of the convention, the social partners actually met to negotiate a possible social agreement on the basis of the convention. i would remind you that the method of social dialogue is an opportunity for the european union and it is true that i myself had the opportunity to express to the social partners, that is to say to both the shipowners and the trade unions, my wish that they should sign an agreement on this convention. the social partners with the existing text do not have to renegotiate it but rather select the appropriate provisions to complement community law. the prospect of a social agreement by the end of 2007 now seems very plausible. once it has an agreement with the social partners, the commission will propose a directive to ensure that the provisions of the agreement are respected throughout europe. thanks to parliament, we anticipate the necessary ratification of the convention and thanks to the social partners, we have a social agreement which will allow the new provisions to be introduced rapidly into european law. i believe that we will have worked well together on the condition of seafarers, for a very important social advance, which will, as you have both stressed just now, promote the recruitment of young seafarers, seafarers who the european union needs to develop its maritime transport. i would like to thank parliament very much, mr president, for its extremely determined action in favour of this great convention. i am glad to see that europe is leading the way and, in a way, is advancing the globalisation with a human face that we need.
thank you, chief. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs mcdonald. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. annex - position of the commission
the next item is the report by mr jörg leichtfried, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1592/2002 of 15 july 2002 on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a european aviation safety agency (com (2005) 0579 - c6-0403/2005 - 2005/0228 (cod)) (a6-0023/2007).
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2002 you approved regulation 1592/2002. this regulation establishes common rules on the airworthiness of aircraft and establishes the european aviation safety agency. you agreed that an optimal and uniform level of safety could only be achieved by extending the scope of this text, and thus the powers of the european aviation safety agency, which have been extended to flight operations, pilot licences and the safety of aircraft of third countries. and you have explicitly asked the commission to make a proposal to that effect. it's time to end an anomaly. while aircraft are now free to operate within a single market, the level of safety remains uneven across member states. you know as well as i do that the rules drawn up by the specialised intergovernmental organisations are implemented very differently within the community. the result is that there are wide national differences, and not always the most stringent standards are applied. you have asked for continued efforts to improve the general level of aviation safety in europe. that is the purpose of the proposal we are discussing, since it aims to extend the common rules to air operations, pilot licences and the safety of aircraft from third countries, in other words to provide the community with tools which should help to strengthen the safety of air transport in europe. the proposal also strengthens the obligations of member states in respect of inspection of aircraft and of third countries and member states. it gives the agency the power to carry out extensive inspections of all activities of the civil aviation authorities of the member states and their companies and airlines to verify that they comply with the common rules. penalty mechanisms, such as withdrawal of mutual recognition in case of non-compliance, are also provided for. the text is part of a coherent set of measures to improve aviation safety. i would like to remind you briefly of the following: the blacklist, which allows airlines that do not comply with safety rules to be banned from our countries, the strengthening of the mechanisms for inspecting aircraft safa directive and very soon the commission will propose to complete this regulatory framework by extending the powers of the european aviation safety agency to the safety of airport operations and air navigation, as set out in the communication attached to the regulatory proposal you are considering today. this will result in a coherent and uniform set of safety rules for the community by 2010 and a single body, the european aviation safety agency, responsible for preparing, implementing and enforcing them. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate you and thank you for your contribution to this strategy to strengthen european aviation safety. i shall be very interested to hear what you have to say on this subject, which is obviously of vital importance to the citizens of the european union.
we are not in westminster here, and therefore i would ask members not to interrupt those who are enjoying the privilege of speaking.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the commissioner on the diligence with which he has presented this urgent and necessary text, and also, and especially, my colleague mr leichtfried on his tenacious work in uniting wills and securing a sufficient majority in parliament. i think that the amendments we are proposing improve the text, for example by simplifying, among other things, the management of the agency by abolishing the executive committee, which was redundant. the agency's independence in financial matters is guaranteed, conditions for the transparency of accounts are established and a system of penalties is ensured which implies their proper application. it is still necessary to improve it and that is why i welcome amendment no 30 by mr jarzembowski, which avoids disadvantages for european industry by increasing the number of passengers on helicopters. i was not very much in favour of the presence of ship definitions, but i am in favour, once integrated, of their being extended. i would particularly like to see us all supporting amendments nos 33 and 34 which do justice to cabin crew, who are increasingly ensuring our safety as well as our comfort. the eu ops regulation needs to be implemented and the training, qualification, and professional and medical certification of these cabin crew needs to be developed and harmonised towards excellence.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, we are faced with a very important question for the protection of the environment, but also for the protection of the correct application of community law. today it's practically spring and the hunt is still on in malta. poachers have taken over a large part of the country's territory. the directive on wild birds is being flagrantly violated by the maltese authorities' complete inaction. the hunters, with the government's backing, even act with violence. three maltese journalists have been hospitalised after being brutally attacked by poachers when they were simply doing their job with those protesting against this illegal practice. but maltese society is mostly opposed to hunting in the spring. according to a recent poll, more than 80% of maltese oppose this illegal practice. even the owners of hotels and restaurants in malta are against it, because they say it's bad for tourism, bad for the economy. why is the maltese government so intent on protecting this illegal and barbaric practice? only the maltese party alternativa democratica the greens defends community law in malta. the maltese government is showing a scandalous lack of loyalty to the european treaty which it signed just a short time ago, before it joined the european union. how is that possible? we call on the commission to be firm and forceful in this case of challenge to community law.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
thank you very much, mr van orden, we take note of your comments.
the voting is closed.
madam president, i think we should all congratulate ourselves on holding this debate on the eve of the conference of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly in tunisia and at the same time adopting this resolution, which was adopted by all the political groups in this parliament and by the committee on international trade. i welcome the words of the commissioner that we are facing a joint political challenge. i believe that there is a fundamental problem underlying this debate, the political problem, alongside the trade, energy, water, cultural and migration aspects. i think that as the european union we must pay close attention to the next summit of the arab league, which is to be held at the end of this month in riyadh, where a new plan for the region is to be proposed. i think that the european union, through its institutions, commissioner, should be very attentive to trying to convey our comments and our views on this particular matter. we must also be very attentive to the active position being maintained by saudi diplomacy, the visits of the us secretary of state and other international leaders, the meeting in mecca the other day between the president of the palestinian national authority and the hamas leaders with a view to forming a government of national unity, and the visit of the president of iraq. i therefore believe, madam president, that it is very good to combine all the factors which shape the euro-mediterranean policy of the european union, taking into account all the possibilities offered by the instruments of the new neighbourhood policy and especially the considerable financial resources at our disposal. but i believe, commissioner, that policy must be given priority, and in this respect i believe that the decisions taken at the last barcelona summit, and in particular the code of conduct on terrorism, should be an essential factor which will have a bearing on the work of the new arab league summit at the end of this month in riyadh.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to send a message of optimism, because every time we talk about the mediterranean it seems that everything is black in the region and it is not. of course we have many problems, but we also have many opportunities. the mediterranean is really the test to see if we are able to seize the opportunities. for example, with conflicts. for example, the middle east, but there we have to activate an international peace conference madrid ii, taking advantage of the windows that are opening, such as the half-hearted acceptance of the initiative of the arab league or the meetings of this body that are going to take place shortly. we have the problem of poverty, which is at the root of immigration and also of development, of course, but we have the doha round that must be reactivated, the multilateral agreements, the association agreements, and the millennium development goals to deal with it. we have the problem of energy, the environment, climate change, but we also have the barcelona process which deals with these issues. we have to fight terrorism, but there is a code of conduct against terrorism approved in barcelona+10. we have democracy and human rights, but there are association agreements, agreements also for the implementation of neighbourhood plans which can be used in that sense. so there are problems and opportunities at the same time. the mediterranean is not the soft, troubled belly of the european union. it's part of the solution to many of our problems. the euro-mediterranean process must therefore be relaunched and strengthened from a political, economic, social, environmental, human and cultural point of view. implement the conclusions of barcelona+10 and ensure that the european neighbourhood policy does not sideline the barcelona process. this region has a solution as a region. let us not encourage each country to seek an individual solution, which is impossible, which is bad for the people, and which is also bad for the union as a partner. i therefore believe that the partnership between equals who are necessarily asymmetrical is a good basis for work and is the basis of the barcelona process, which has a political dialogue, which frames an economic dialogue, as is clearly underlined in the magnificent report by kader arif and in the resolution we are going to adopt. the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly that is to meet in tunisia will be a key element in this respect and this parliament, which was at its inception, must continue to be at its highest level.
madam president, the barcelona process has proclaimed an absolutely ambitious project which, as this report describes very well, has a long way to go. he's still lame in many ways. the creation of a free trade area in the mediterranean was certainly an essential corollary of what was intended by the barcelona process. we must congratulate ourselves on this resolution and congratulate its author for having been able to move beyond grand political declarations to a realistic, sensible, constructive diagnosis of the situation and the difficulties it faces. there is often too much poetry in some of our resolutions; this is not the case. of all the interesting things you have mentioned, i want to stress only one, the need to strengthen south-south trade. the need for the european commission to be directly involved in the effort to strengthen south-south trade. there is the agadir agreement, which we need to extend, and that is the basis of the signatories, but we need to make it our own objective to strengthen that south-south trade, without which it will be impossible to make progress in this direction.
madam president, in recent years the european union has paid particular attention to the east of the continent. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. on the other hand, we have often tended to reduce relations with the mediterranean to the middle east conflict. however, we must give priority attention to the whole mediterranean basin and make it an area of peace, prosperity, freedom and stability. these are neighbouring countries with longstanding and multiple relations with the member states of the european union and which are facing serious problems. for example: insufficient democratic and institutional development and low economic growth, unable to provide employment for a growing young population. they are both countries of origin and transit of illegal immigration. the whole problem of our neighbours is already having an impact on the countries of the union. we are interdependent. we must therefore cooperate and increase our economic and trade relations, including the establishment of a free trade area in due course, for the benefit of all. our neighbours must also be able to make important reforms to deal with their problems. standing still will not bring stability. political, social and economic reforms are needed. these are also to bring in the much needed foreign investment. to this end, a substantial increase in south-south trade is necessary. unfortunately, the 2005 summit, which marked the 10th anniversary of the barcelona process, was a missed opportunity to testify, especially to the public opinion of the mediterranean countries, to the need to cooperate with the european union. the level of representation of the southern shore countries was disappointing. but we must continue our efforts. the 12 billion euro of the european neighbourhood policy is a modest sum when compared with other amounts in the union budget and when we take into account the enormous needs of the neighbours to the south. its citizens find it increasingly difficult to reconcile the contrast between the prosperity of neighbouring europe and the serious shortages they themselves suffer. in short, euro-mediterranean relations must be a priority for the european union. both sides will benefit from it.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm in the fortunate position of not having to use my five minutes. i feel that there is a broad consensus here, a consensus on receiving with great respect and gratitude the report by mr kader arif, and a strong understanding that the barcelona process, with its desire to create an area of peace and stability, has no alternative, but that it cannot solve the peace-making tasks of the region on its own and that this is not its task. i would point out how much the presidency of the council has worked to ensure that a formal peace process is resumed and that negotiations within the framework of the quartet move forward. there was also a broad consensus that it was imperative that we stick to the objective of a 'free trade area' by 2010. but precisely because this can only be a success, if competitiveness is ultimately the basis of such a free trade concept, we must see how important the european neighbourhood policy with its concrete action plans can be, how valuable the transfer of the experience gained by this new european neighbourhood policy can be to the barcelona process. i would like to make a final point on this. there is close cooperation between the present and the next portuguese presidency. we do not want to antagonize these different regions, but to transfer to the southern region the experience we have had and will have in eastern europe. this is the great opportunity for the barcelona process to make good progress.
member of the commission. president, i would to like to thank all the honourable members who have spoken for their comments and suggestions regarding euro-mediterranean relations. they are proof of the interest and importance that this house attaches to the partnership and its future, as does the commission. the debate has reconfirmed the importance of the euro-med free trade area, in particular its potential in promoting north-south, but also south-south trade, as has been highlighted during this debate, if implemented in a measured way. despite the difficulties and setbacks encountered by the middle east peace process, the barcelona process has continued to make remarkable progress. the continuing conflict has not shaken our belief in the need for the euro-mediterranean partnership and the neighbourhood policy. since the foreign affairs conference of may 2005 in luxembourg, we have succeeded in reaching joint conclusions in all the euro-mediterranean ministerial meetings. this is the proof of a shared political will to move forward and to promote the barcelona process. the issue of migration was raised by several members. i would like to refer to the euro-med ministerial meeting on migration, which is planned for november 2007. this ministerial meeting should agree a draft action plan around the three clusters identified: legal migration, illegal migration and development. what transpires in north africa and the middle east is of great importance to europe's future. where today there is doubt, let us create opportunity tomorrow: by basing our partnership on respect; by reiterating our commitment to a region that is both close to home and strategically vital for europe; and lastly, by making sure that policy is always marked by action.
the debate was closed by seven motions for resolutions (see minutes) tabled in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs pack, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on bosnia and herzegovina (2006/2290 (ini)) (a6-0030/2007).
mr posselt, firstly, this is not a matter of regulation and, secondly, i have been chairing institutions for many years, trying to trust the responsibility of colleagues who, as they often look at their watches, see when the light is on. from now on, whenever you speak i will use the hammer, because, effectively, you speak twice as long as i had planned, but i'm cutting now, because i don't want to occupy the microphone. however, i shall use the argument you give me when you take the floor.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for a substantive and responsible debate and for your clear support for the excellent report by mrs pack. i also thank you for your support for the commission's policy on the western balkans, which is based on a long-standing commitment to support the european process of change in the countries of the region. i am pleased that this policy received the clear support of the european council in december. the european council decided to keep the doors of the european union open to the countries of south-eastern europe, and they can enter as long as each of them first fulfils all the obligations of membership. i shall be visiting sarajevo tomorrow and friday to highlight the issues that you have raised in this debate and which the european parliament will emphasize in its own statements. the unity of bosnia and herzegovina is important for the country to succeed on the eu path, as was stressed in your debate. we need to work together across the political spectrum. that is one of the valid conclusions we can draw from the success of small countries in the european union in general, and it certainly applies to bosnia and herzegovina as well. the most important thing now is that the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina take responsibility and implement the necessary reforms to enable the country to move towards the european union and to provide better living conditions for its own citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
mr president, i would like to express our deep concern at the current crisis at airbus and our solidarity with the workers affected, to whom we owe our full support. i also want to express our hope that the power 8 adjustment programme will help to revive the company and restore the competitiveness of a european project which has been representing the future of industrial innovation in the european union. we also recommend learning from management mistakes and distorted competition and intergovernmental lawsuits. we need them to put the criteria of business and industrial efficiency, the advances of cutting-edge innovation, above the outdated political quarrels. we also want to announce to airbus workers across europe - including those in puerto real, getafe and illescas - that the european parliament is committed to working with the unions and those in charge to provide all the help and encourage them to improve themselves every day. we call on the commission and the council to join forces to achieve a clear and sustainable solution for them.
deputising for the author. – mr president, we have asked for this debate to examine the background and the purpose of the green paper adopted by the commission on 6 december 2006. with the green paper, the commission intends to stimulate a debate over the use of trade defence instruments in europe: countervailing, anti-dumping and safeguard measures. i believe that this is a commendable initiative and i am convinced of the value of this debate. we need to talk much more about trade policy and about the choices made by the european commission and by the council and we need to ensure that decisions are properly discussed before this parliament. we need to give this parliament more power and to make trade policy more subject to democratic scrutiny. we are all living through a moment which many view as some sort of crisis period. we are living through a time when europeans are asking themselves: what does europe represent and why do we need such a complicated thing as the european union in the first place? and, when these legitimate concerns are raised, the importance of the role of a united eu in the globalised world and the importance of having a single voice to represent and defend the interests of 500 million citizens in any negotiation with other trade partners in the world market are vital factors to be considered. global trade and its impact on the lives of our citizens and on the future of our businesses, big, medium-sized and small, play an essential role in the anxieties felt by many over what we usually call ‘globalisation’. and, while many of us believe that some of the criticism is no more than cheap demagogy, we must understand those anxieties and we must oppose pure determinism in the way this new world develops, in the way trade takes place, in the way wealth and poverty are distributed.europeans who lose their jobs when a company suddenly decides to move eastwards in search of higher profits cannot simply be told that times have changed and that they cannot stand in the way of progress. they want to know what is going on and they must have their voice heard by those that ultimately decide. we should not forget that there is more than one recipe for economic growth and trade development. it is a matter of policy options whether the future of europe belongs only to huge retail corporations and to importers or whether we can preserve a model compatible with our most essential social and environmental concerns. our strong belief in free trade is perfectly compatible with the need to ask for a level playing field. even the most peaceful countries in the world – and europe among them – know that a full commitment to peace does not necessarily mean that armies are abolished and all means of defence are to be destroyed. so, we say yes to the huge benefits of free trade in our open world and we say yes to the fair implementation of the rules on which this global trade is based. we welcome the green paper, which has the merit of opening a debate on this subject. its text and the questions it raises already assume that something must be done to modify the current community trade defence system. this might be true. the recent footwear case has shown that the risk of deadlocks is real. they are clearly of no benefit to anybody. nobody here is blindly defending inefficient european production or supporting a protectionist approach to this highly sensitive matter. trade defence reform can be considered, if it is to be made more effective and more transparent. the green paper can be a good starting point if all the stakeholders’ views are properly taken into consideration and if the commission and the council do not entrench themselves behind preconceived ideological positions. the decision-making process can also be improved and we need to ensure that decisions are taken by member states based on the well-founded research carried out by independent community bodies, rather than on the basis of national interests, or, if you prefer, national selfishness. it is therefore important to improve and reinforce trade defence instruments instead of watering them down. on the other side, a fresh approach can be made to less traditional threats to a balanced and free world trade. practices such as so-called social or environmental dumping need also to be confronted and, when necessary, new means of tackling them should be seriously considered as a matter of community interest. the following are the questions i would like mr mandelson to respond to tonight. firstly, the doha negotiations have been restarted and i sincerely hope that they will result in a clear success. in this respect, would it not have been better to wait for the successful conclusion of multilateral negotiations before starting this exercise, which might weaken our position in geneva? secondly, can mr mandelson explain why his services are already applying quite a few questionable innovations mentioned in the green paper, even before the public consultation has come to an end and without any discussions either before the council, or before this parliament? thirdly, since the new trade defence system proposed by the commission assigns a role to all possible interested parties, including those not related to the production of goods falling under the scope of the investigation, do you not believe that the time has come to allow trade unions to lodge a complaint, as foreseen by the wto anti-dumping agreement? i conclude by formally asking mr mandelson to provide assurances that the european parliament will be kept informed at all stages of the process and that the views expressed by its members will be fully taken into account when discussing this highly sensitive matter.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr voggenhuber on his report. saint teresa used to say that the devil is the detail. it is obvious that the european commission is not one day going to approve a piece of legislation that blatantly violates fundamental rights: nobody expects that. but, for example, we have situations, as in the case of restrictions on liquids in aeroplanes, where comitology has been used in a shameful way to impose, through a secret piece of regulation – and i emphasise, a secret piece of regulation – duties on citizens which cannot be reviewed by any court in europe, national or european. this is a case of the european commission not being a witness to a violation of fundamental rights but itself legislating in a way that goes against respect for fundamental rights and the most basic rules on transparency. these things happen, so let us stop the rhetoric and begin applying to ourselves what we pretend to apply to everybody else, to our neighbours and to our partners throughout the world.
the rapporteur. mr president, at the fourth european union-latin america and the caribbean summit held in vienna last spring, the green light was given to start negotiations for a strategic partnership agreement between europe and the andean community. in this report i propose some thirty recommendations for the council and the commission to take into account when they draw up the negotiating lines. we want a partnership that is ambitious, broad and far-reaching, in line with the twins, say, mercosur and central america, because we consider it a strategic need for both regions. latin america and europe are called by history, language, culture, beliefs and values, as well as by a common worldview, support for multilateralism and the united nations system, to become strategic allies in a globalized world. this is especially true for the andean countries where some of the continent's pockets of extreme poverty and the greatest inequalities are found. the agreement must have three pillars: one of a political and institutional nature, one of cooperation and one of trade. in the political and security field, we should achieve a euro-andean charter for peace and security, the establishment of a permanent political dialogue, the promotion of the quality of democracy, social cohesion, support for governance, poverty reduction, human exchanges, the fight against terrorism, conflict prevention and coordination for the reform of the united nations, together with civil and military crisis management operations. the second pillar is the promotion of sustainable human development and the progressive access of andean products to european markets, on competitive terms, taking into account the enormous economic asymmetries and the degree of integration between europeans and andeans, which will mean the review of the cap and subsidies by the union. the third pillar is trade itself, but unlike other models with third countries, for example the agreements of the andean countries with the united states, they must not be free trade agreements in the strict sense, or free trade agreements without more, but they must take account of the abyss that separates the two regions. without accompanying economic measures, cooperation and financial support, trade policies alone would not be able to fulfil their role as a contribution to development. the inclusion of labour rights, especially of indigenous and tribal peoples, the protection of decent working conditions, non-discrimination and equal employment between men and women and the eradication of child labour should be included in the agreement. it is also worth noting the importance of european investment as an essential element for the development of those countries and the need for european companies to apply the same standards as those applied in european countries with regard to working conditions. immigration, as a phenomenon and a source of opportunities, must be included in the agreement, with due regard for the rights of immigrants, and facilitating, reducing costs and making remittance transfers more transparent and secure. the environmental chapter, which should occupy a prominent place in the agreement, should include the pooling of policies aimed at energy saving, diversification, the promotion of alternative and renewable energies and the reduction of polluting emissions, in the direction taken by the last european council. in short, mr president, commissioner, the objective, in the opinion of this rapporteur, must be that at the fifth summit of the european union - latin america and the caribbean, to be held in lima in 2008, we should be able to sign this ambitious strategic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states and the andean community and its member states.
the rapporteur. mr president, it is obvious to everyone that this debate which is about to take place in the house is taking place at an important moment for latin america in general, whose peoples seem to be responding very strongly to the policy which has impoverished them: a policy of neoliberal recipes which are now in question. president bush's recent visit to latin america is more than clear evidence. the european union has a historic debt to central america, particularly in the context of the association agreement with central america. we played a very important role in the 1980s in the process of pacification and democratization in central america - the san josé and esquipulas agreements - in which the european union took off, with an autonomous position vis-à-vis the united states, and played a key role. the situation in central america is very clear: economic growth is very weak - we are at 0.6% - poverty levels are still similar to those of the 1990s, and inequalities are increasing. the verification of the peace agreements is still an open question, as are human rights, impunity and corruption, and regional integration is still very weak. in this context, this modest rapporteur opted for a specific report to specify the type of partnership. it was based on three fundamental pillars: political dialogue for good governance, development cooperation to help eliminate the structural causes of poverty and inequality, and trade in conditions of fairness and mutual benefit based on complementarity and solidarity. an agreement that is committed to regional integration that contributes to the equitable and fair redistribution of income and wealth in central america. that was the context. we wanted an agreement which did not become a free trade area agreement and privatisation of public services. in short, we did not want to subordinate cooperation and political dialogue to the prescriptions of free trade. i am convinced that a markedly neoliberal trade agreement between unequal regions - in every sense of the word - only leads to deepening that inequality and fosters the exploitation of a business elite, deepening a wider circle of dependence, exclusion, poverty and very high social and environmental costs. i believe that trade and cooperation should be based on sustainable development at regional level to the benefit of the people, and not a series of projects for the benefit of transnational capital such as the puebla-panama plan or the european investment bank. with that in mind, i have prepared this modest report, with the help of many civil society organisations in europe and central america. the report was, of course, followed up by the opinions of the committee on development and the committee on international trade of the house. i would like to thank all those who contributed to the improvement of the text, and i intend to continue to follow this philosophy throughout. i would like to express my special thanks to mr miguel ángel martínez for his always fair and supportive contributions, in this case from the committee on development. in the opinion of the committee on international trade, mr gianluca susta, he has introduced amendments into the text, very important amendments which really distort the report i intended to present to the house. the aim was to produce a balanced report based on the three pillars i mentioned earlier, but in practice the set of amendments constituted a document whose main aim was to establish a free trade area. at that point, finally, it was up to me to try to dampen that vision as much as possible, that is to say, to try to make central america see or believe that what we europeans were pursuing was, fundamentally, a free trade area. we have reached - and i thank him for it - seven amendments of compromise with mr salafranca of the ppe-de group, mr obiols of the pse group and mr susta of the alde group, whom i thank, and i sincerely urge them to do so, in order to get closer to a cushion and not to distort the report. but i also naturally welcome the amendments by mr obiols and mrs de kayser of the socialist group and mr romeva of the green group, because they add to and improve this interest by making the mandate a clear mandate for an association agreement on those terms, excluding the free trade area. this has been partly fortunate, because we have managed to cushion, as i said, such important points as point (v) where it was explicitly recommended that the free trade area should be a priority strategic objective, even making references to the alcac plan, and, logically, we have managed to cushion it but not enough. i do not know whether it has been done before, but i am going to recommend to my group that it abstain in voting on this report because i think that it does not really achieve the objective it was intended to achieve, namely that of a balanced report. i am very interested in the opinion of the parliament of central america, the parlacen, the political organizations of central america, and what i do hope and wish is that the european commission, when it starts the negotiations, will take into account that what we are being asked for here is not a photocopy of the united states, but an equidistant, different and autonomous position.
member of the commission. mr president, let me first welcome, also on behalf of my colleague, benita ferrero-waldner, the remarkable work of the two rapporteurs as well the constructive analysis and comments made by the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on development and the committee on international trade concerning the different aspects and perspectives for future agreements with these regions. the conclusion of association agreements with central america and the andean community is a long-standing strategic objective for both regions, confirmed repeatedly by the heads of state and government at the summits in guadalajara and vienna. with the negotiation of these agreements, the eu shows its commitment to the region and its determination to reinforce its relations with all latin american countries. europe and latin america are natural partners, and closer ties with central america and the andean community will contribute to a stronger partnership, both politically and economically. the agreements will be negotiated on a region-to-region basis in order to provide further impetus to the regional integration processes both in central america and in the andean community. as repeatedly emphasised, also by the european parliament, regional integration is key to political and social stability. it will also help to insert these regions more successfully into the world economy by developing larger and more stable economies able to attract investment. nevertheless, it is worth dispelling the idea that the eu tries to ‘impose’ its own model: regional integration should be developed by each region on the basis of its own ambitions and agenda. the association agreements are envisaged as comprehensive agreements, embracing the whole array of the multifaceted relations of the eu with both regions: political dialogue, cooperation and trade. the respect and promotion of democratic principles, fundamental human rights, the rule of law and good governance will remain at the core of our relations with central america and the andean community. in addition, the commission is of the opinion that the association agreements should pay particular attention to the effective implementation of internationally-agreed standards in the human rights, social, core labour and environmental fields in order to enhance sustainable development. concerning political dialogue, these agreements will aim to tackle a wide range of matters, such as climate change, energy, migration and the fight against drugs. these are vital not only for both our regions but also for the entire planet. an enhanced dialogue with central america and the andean community aims to seek constructive engagement towards effective multilateralism and international governance that may respond to the world challenges of the 21st century. the political chapter of the association agreements will be accompanied by measures aiming to enhance bi-regional trade and investment in a balanced and fair way. this should be pursued not only through the progressive and reciprocal liberalisation of trade in goods and services, but also by establishing a fair and transparent regulatory framework. asymmetries between our regions should also be taken into account. the trade part of the agreement will be fully consistent with wto rules and obligations, while going beyond its basic rules, so as to maximise the mutual and long-term benefits of bi-regional trade liberalisation. cooperation between the two sides is to be deeply rooted in the global objectives and principles established by our development policy, such as the european consensus on development, as well as by the international agreements to which we are party, including the millennium development goals, and the paris declaration on aid effectiveness. social cohesion will be a priority. the cooperation chapter should reflect the willingness to work jointly and to exchange experiences. it should also reflect solidarity towards the poorest and most excluded people. let me conclude with an overview on the preparation of these negotiations: the draft negotiating directives were adopted by the commission on 6 december 2006 and are currently under discussion with member states. the commission hopes to have the negotiating directives adopted and, if conditions allow, actually to start negotiating with these two latin american sub-regions within the first half of this year. if we manage to stick to this ambitious timetable, it will be largely thanks to your support and determination to enhance relations between the eu and latin america, in particular with these two regions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, the initial report presented to us by mr willy meyer on the association agreement between the european union and the countries of central america formed the basis for the opinion we drew up in the committee on development. we have very broad agreement with their approaches and we have also agreed with a number of recommendations of our committee on development on this subject. mr willy meyer was very receptive and we jointly signed seven amendments to introduce the specific concerns of the committee on development. i must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that i find the text which has come to us in the house very decaffeinated in relation to the initial proposals, reorientating them to a large extent in a neoliberal way, perhaps reflecting the thinking of the majority of parliament. the truth is that we can live with these texts thanks to the commitments, we will vote for them, but we will vote for them without any enthusiasm, knowing that they do not fit the needs of central america or the aspirations of its peoples and knowing, also, that this text will not increase the credit of the european union in those societies. of the seven amendments proposed by the committee on development, three have been accepted, and they stress that the eu-central america association agreement must include the dimension of development cooperation and therefore, as the commissioner has said, include the priorities defined in the european consensus on cooperation: namely, the eradication of poverty and the achievement of the millennium goals. perhaps these recognitions and the need we feel for the agreement will save, in the text we are going to vote, the minimum requirements for our support.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the reports presented by mr yañez and mr meyer respond to a longstanding demand of our parliament that the andean and central american communities should also be able to benefit from association agreements, as is the case with other areas of the region, and thus benefit from the more refined, more developed instruments available to the european union for its relations with third countries. it is clear, mr president, that these are not the only two areas with which the european union is negotiating these association agreements. i take advantage of the fact that the commerce commissioner is here tonight to ask him to make a special effort with negotiations which have been dragging on for too long, namely the negotiations which the european union has been conducting for some time with mercosur. i understand the difficulties that weigh on this negotiating process. they are not, of course, exclusively attributable to the will of the european union, but i think we should make an effort to try to give them a boost and to be able to make progress along these lines. i would point out, mr president, that in the first and second generations of agreements between the european union and the countries of latin america, the emphasis was on research and development, in the third generation the emphasis was on the democratic clause, and in this fourth generation of association agreements the emphasis is on a progressive and reciprocal liberalisation of trade. of course, this does not mean that commercial aspects are the most important. i understand that this partnership, as the commissioner said a moment ago, is a partnership which lays the foundations of the relationship on political dialogue, on respect for human rights, on democratic values, on respect for the rule of law, and on the fight against corruption. but it is clear that we cannot ignore the importance of free trade, which is a demand of the central american and andean countries, and in this connection the only thing i can recommend, mr president, is that this ambitious timetable, which the commissioner has informed us of, given that the commission has approved the negotiating directives and parliament will also approve them tomorrow, can be put into effect as soon as possible, because we have waited too long for these andean and central american communities to enjoy these association agreements, such as those of mexico and chile, which have, incidentally, produced excellent results.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, our group has been seeking consensus on the reports signed by our colleagues, mr yañez and mr meyer. we have sought amendments to the transaction because we believe it is important to convey the message to the latin american subregions concerned that what the european union is proposing is not a simple free trade agreement but a more global type of agreement which takes account primarily of the aspects of political conciliation and development cooperation. if i understand the substance of the debate which has taken place in this parliament on these two reports, i understand that what is at issue is the position of representatives of the people's group, who are focusing more on these possible negotiations from a perspective of emphasis on the aspects of free trade, while others, including our socialist group, are giving more importance to the aspects of political concertation, solidarity, support for democratic institutions, the fight against poverty and violence. if we look at the actual picture of trade relations between the european union and central america, for example, we see that trade between the european union and central america represents about 0.3% of our external trade and that, even in central america, the trade relationship with the european union represents no more than 9 or 10% of its external trade relationship. if we apply the classic maxim primum vivere, deinde philosophare, we can quickly come to the conclusion that the most vital aspect of our relationship, in view of the situation in these countries, is not so much trade as aspects of the fight against poverty, against insecurity, against violence and, in some countries, against the increasingly decisive weight of drug trafficking and organized crime. that is the fundamental issue. a great european journalist, the polishman kapucinski, recently died, and he said that these countries only attract our attention when there is bloodshed, and he added: 'it is sad, but it is true'. it seems to me clear that we are facing a situation in which the loss of attention, after ten years of the signing of the peace agreements in central america, must be reversed into a higher attention and the maximum use of the possibilities offered by the opening of negotiations for an association agreement which must have, from our point of view, the most consensual and majority support of this parliament.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i too would like to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs on their efforts to reach consensus among the groups on the negotiating mandate for the association agreements with central america and the andean region. however, as has also been said, we have been able to see, in the process of drawing up these reports, that there are profound and important differences between the groups. despite the efforts of the rapporteurs, the final text has been really unbalanced in the three fundamental elements of this agreement: political dialogue, cooperation and trade. we believe that a free trade area is not a realistic or appropriate objective for regions as vulnerable as those we are dealing with here. we therefore believe that a good opportunity has been lost to encourage bi-regional relations which would strengthen a multidimensional view of them and guarantee sustainable human development for the andean and central american peoples. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i take this opportunity to explain the position of my group, the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left, on the report by my colleague, mr yañez. as he will understand, the line we are going to take in the vote is the same as that which we took in the report which i had the pleasure of presenting to the house, namely, an abstention. for the same reasons, and knowing that mr yañez has made a real effort to present a very balanced project with the emphasis on the most fundamental thing that latin america is asking for at the moment, which is the part of political dialogue and cooperation. because in the part on cooperation we can play a very important role in relation to the role that the united states is playing in latin america and, unfortunately, the pen of other colleagues, mainly the pen of the international trade commission, has varied this approach substantially. we're going to abstain. the truth is that sometimes the body asks us to even go a little further. but we are abstaining because we also believe that we must listen to the views of latin america and, in this case, also to the social organizations there. we will be very careful to contribute from this abstention to the fundamental debate which will be the association agreement with central america, in a very critical way, so that an association agreement other than a free trade area can be reached.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the problem of the disappeared is a tragedy that is part of the history of various countries in the world. cyprus is not the only one of them, but it is certainly the closest to us where this drama is still a part not of the past, but absolutely of the present. it is therefore very important that we recognize the work of the committee on missing persons set up within the united nations, and recently promoted again by the united nations itself, which is doing an absolutely commendable job and a job that should be recognized and supported. that is the real meaning of the resolution which will be voted on tomorrow. a task for the benefit of the families of those missing that goes far beyond the conflict, goes far beyond the political tension or the historical drama that has divided that island and still divides it today. this resolution therefore attempts to address this question strictly from that angle. from the humanitarian angle of the families and the suffering of the people who have the right to recover the remains of those they loved and who, as a result of the conflict, cannot know, without the work of the committee's experts and forensic experts on missing persons, where they are or who they are, or can be identified. that is what this resolution is about. we are also asking for the support of the institutions, including financial support, which we know is needed by this committee on missing persons, and that is the message we are trying to convey. this will not heal the wound that cyprus is suffering at the moment, it requires too much work. we know that it doesn't look like it's going to close anytime soon, despite the recent performances we're seeing. it is important, however, that we all avoid contaminating the debate on the collective support of the two communities for this institution with what is and unfortunately remains political tension, which will continue, but which should not be mixed at all with the support of all for the work of this committee.
mr president, i cannot and must not fail to express my satisfaction with this own-initiative report to my colleague, mr musotto, because it represents a step forward in the consideration of islands, within the framework of the european union's regional policy, as regions with disadvantages due to their geographical, natural, structural and permanent limitations, which slow down their socioeconomic development. i share the rapporteur's view that the euroregions play an important role, both in local projects for the exchange of good practice and in the field of crossborder cooperation. for this purpose, the balearic islands form part of the euroregion pyrenees-mediterranean. i also welcome the rapporteur's special reference to the issue of illegal immigration. i take this opportunity to thank you for taking into account, when drafting your proposals for a transaction, the amendments which my colleague, mr fernando fernandez, and i myself tabled to the section in question in the report we are examining today. we insist on these amendments, and i insist again today on pointing out the great fragility of the islands to illegal immigration because of their special geographical situation. it is therefore necessary to integrate migration and development issues into the framework of union aid policies and their programming, both through the funds comprising the new framework programme on solidarity and management of migration flows and through regional policy instruments, in particular the european social fund and the european regional development fund. the treaty of amsterdam, in its annex 30, recognised the peculiarities of island status, but unfortunately this recognition in the treaty has not been implemented by the effective actions and specific measures needed to mitigate and correct the inevitable extra costs arising from the characteristics of islands. my background in the balearic islands, the rapporteur's background in sicily and that of many of my colleagues make us aware of the difficulties that insularity poses to our regions. we therefore ask the commission, the member states and the council, in addition to specific measures to alleviate these disadvantages, to provide assistance and understanding for this particular situation.
the rapporteur. mr president, in agreement with several groups, i would like to table an oral amendment to replace the words 'objective' in the first line of paragraph 1 (b) with the words 'among the objectives' and to replace the words 'consists in progressively liberalising trade' with the words 'the establishment of an advanced free trade area (fta) is envisaged'.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to table an oral amendment to insert in the second line of paragraph 1 (s) after 'trade on competitive terms' the words 'of fairness and mutual benefit based on complementarity and solidarity' in order to replace 'competitive'. it is also proposed that the same paragraph should end with 'economic and trade relations of the parties'.
the rapporteur. the purpose of this oral amendment is to replace the words 'a euro-latin american area of global interregional partnership' in paragraph 1 (u) of the zlc with the words 'a euro-latin american area of global interregional partnership'.
the rapporteur. the purpose of this oral amendment is to replace zlc in paragraph 1 (v) by the words: euro-latin american area of global interregional partnership.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this is the last of the oral amendments and it seeks to replace, in paragraph 1 (x), 'zlc' by 'euro-latin american area of global interregional partnership'.
in writing. as rapporteur for this report, i drafted a text, with the help of civil society and political organisations in central america, which recommended an association agreement based on three fundamental pillars: political consultation and good governance, development cooperation and trade between the two regions in conditions of justice and mutual benefit based on complementarity and solidarity. after the debate in the committee on foreign affairs, a number of amendments were incorporated from the opinion of the committee on international trade which completely distorted the meaning of my report by pointing out the establishment of a free trade area as a priority strategic objective. the rapporteur is of the opinion, shared by the majority in central america, that an association agreement subordinated to neoliberal prescriptions would be a mistake and would only increase inequalities and poverty in central america to the benefit of the multinationals. in this context, the various political groups have reached a number of agreements which dampen the neoliberal spirit of the report, but in my view not enough. this report is still quite far from my original intention, which is why i voted 'abstention'.
author. - mr president, not long ago guatemala was already the subject of debate in this emergency session when we discussed the extradition of ríos montt and others. today it is again, this time for the murder of three salvadoran members of the parlacen, as well as the suspected perpetrators, in this case in prison. this worrying episode, however, is not an isolated incident in a context that is becoming more tense and dangerous. insecurity is a serious and growing problem in guatemala, but so is impunity for certain acts, some of them perpetrated directly from public institutions or at least with the consent of the same. the guatemalan government itself, through its vice-president stein, has acknowledged that organized crime is increasingly integrated into public institutions, including the police. the data are relevant, as has already been said. thousands of people are killed in guatemala every year, but only 2% of the cases have been arrested. one of the most recent cases was the murder of the peasant leader, pedro zamora, in puerto queztal, which we reported to the commission and the council at the time. this new episode which we are dealing with today, however, obliges us to insist on some of the demands which this parliament has already made in the past. firstly, to reiterate parliament's call on the guatemalan parliament to ratify the rome statute of the international criminal court and to ratify the agreement signed on 12 december 2006 between the guatemalan government and the united nations establishing an international commission against impunity (cicig). secondly, to ask the guatemalan authorities to take measures to protect witnesses and victims of human rights abuses in judicial proceedings. and thirdly, in the cooperation strategy with guatemala for the period 2007-13, the commission should strengthen the promotion of the rule of law, the fight against impunity, full respect for human rights and support for the government to strengthen the capacity of the security forces in terms of human security.
on behalf of the green group, i disagree, mr libicki, this is a fundamental human rights and fundamental rights issue. while in several countries around the world logic and common sense are being imposed and laws are being adopted that not only eliminate discrimination but penalize it in relation to lgbt people, in other countries, such as nigeria, the united states, even within the european union, legislative initiatives are being pushed back like crabs. so we had to react. in a country where the penal code, chapter 42, section 214, punishes with 14 years in prison the mere fact of having sexual relations between persons of the same sex, adults, now the nigerian ministry of justice intends to go a little further and punish even with 5 years in prison those who, being of the same sex, decide to marry as well as those who marry them. it seems that the repeated requests of the un commission on human rights for states to remove all discriminatory laws for the lgbt population are not enough, nor is the evidence that lgbt people are full persons, like heterosexual people. i therefore believe that this house had to react to such a flagrant issue, and it has done so, and we celebrate it.
we have spoken here, mr president, of the importance of a european policy on climate change. is it possible to do so under the current treaties? i'm not sure. the social integration of immigrants was also discussed. is it possible to do so on the basis of the existing treaties? i'm not sure. and what about a common energy market? there is no legal basis in the current treaties. i say this because to contrast what some call 'the real policies that concern the citizens' with the instruments and techniques, as if that were not important, is simply to ignore how the european union works. without procedures, without legal bases, the european union cannot act, and without more democracy it will act without legitimacy. that is why it is so important to reach an agreement on the constitutional treaty. i think that, after the success of the german presidency with the berlin action, that is what we must now do. in the case of the european council in june, which i hope will be held without unanimity, i think it is very important to set the terms of reference, and when setting the terms of reference for the intergovernmental conference - and here is the university professor speaking - we must take account of those who have passed the examination, even with a mark, we must help those who have failed and those who have not appeared, but we must not only take account of those who have failed or those who have not appeared for the examination. the member states which have ratified the treaty have therefore fulfilled their obligations and must be taken into account when establishing the mandate. it has been said here, and it has been said well, that this parliament has made a decisive contribution to the berlin declaration through you, mr president. i think that we want to do the same thing at the intergovernmental conference: we all want to help the european council, because the commission is part of the intergovernmental conference, because the national parliaments are going to ratify the outcome of that conference. but we want to help decisively to make the intergovernmental conference at least as successful as the berlin declaration.
madam president, the kosovo issue is a complex issue with many implications at different levels; it affects basic principles governing the functioning of the international community. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. kosovo is also an exceptional case. this has been recognized by the un special envoy and by the vast majority of the international community. given this uniqueness, the solution is not a precedent for other cases that could arise in europe: this is stated in the text of the resolution we are voting on tomorrow. as the contact group stated in its conclusions of january 2006, the specific nature of the kosovo problem is shaped, among other elements, by the disintegration of yugoslavia and the ensuing conflicts, ethnic cleansing and the events of 1999, notably the nato military intervention that same year. another element that makes the kosovo case exceptional is the long period under international administration under resolution 1244. i would have liked, madam president, for mr ahtisaari to have reached a solution which would have been approved by both sides, serbia and kosovo. in such sensitive issues affecting basic principles and in a region which has gone through a long period of conflict and instability, a mutually acceptable negotiated solution was best. but unfortunately, the negotiations throughout 2006 and early 2007 have not brought about a rapprochement of positions. it is now up to the security council to discuss mr ahtisaari's proposal and, on the basis of it, to take the appropriate decisions. it is clear that neither the european parliament nor any other institution has the competence to decide on the final status of the territory; it is the security council which has to decide on it, and it adopted resolution 1244. i would like to see there still being a possibility for the security council, within a reasonable time, to try to reach an agreement between the parties. i hope that the members of the council, and particularly its permanent members, will play a constructive role at this crucial moment, as we are asking in the text we are voting on tomorrow.
on behalf of the pse group. the organic production sector is demanding - i would say demanding - clear, simple rules that respond to the needs of a clearly expanding market. the european consumer is buying more and more organic products and we must set up as soon as possible a suitable framework to meet those needs, defending not only the interests of consumers but also the interests of the sector and the environment in general. to this end, i believe that the report we are now debating, which has already been suffering difficulties since its adoption, is a good starting point. i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs aubert, on the great work she has been doing. i say that this report is good because, for example, it takes account of the specific features of the various european regions, it defines better the responsibilities of each of the authorities and bodies involved in the control of organic products, and it establishes a mandatory single logo, something i have also stressed throughout the procedure in committee. in this connection, i believe it also provides that, in order to be marketed as organic in the european union, products from third countries must be subject to standards equivalent to european regulations. i think the report is intended, in conclusion, to promote organic as a way of producing and consuming, and to help consolidate this expanding sector as the elite of our agricultural industry, because it is in the quality differential that organic farming will find its hallmark. that said, i think we are now faced with another debate which we did not have in mind until recently: the possibility of the european parliament acquiring a more prominent voice in decisionmaking by taking the co-decision procedure a step further, by requesting the double legal basis for this regulation. i would like to make it very clear that, as ardent europeans, we are always in favour of greater decisionmaking power for this parliament, the democratic expression par excellence of the european union, and we will therefore vote accordingly tomorrow. however, i would also like to point out and stress that this regulation is a social demand both from the sector and from consumers, and that the subsequent steps which we have to decide on from tomorrow cannot be delayed much longer, but that, for the sake of legal certainty for producers and consumer confidence, we must continue to work quickly to have a regulation which the european sector has been demanding for a long time and which clearly differentiates this organic farming, for the sake of consumer safety.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank the committee on budgets and its standing rapporteur, alain lamassoure, for the impressive work carried out with this report on a particularly sensitive topic. i can join in the applause for mr böge on his excellent presentation. i would also like to stress that, in line with the interinstitutional position of 17 may 2006, and as part of the consultation and reflection process leading up to the establishment of the review, the commission undertakes to draw on the in-depth exchange of views that it will conduct with parliament when analysing this situation. therefore, i welcome today’s debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products. i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr böge, on his excellent french, which i very much envy, and also, of course, the rapporteur, mr lamassoure, on his efforts to bring forward a debate which is indeed crucial and which we shall see whether the other community institutions will, in due course, have the courage to tackle. i think that almost all of us share the basic objectives of the report: a european system that is understandable to the citizens, without, of course, increasing the tax burden. i would like to focus instead on a priority requirement for the committee on regional development, namely that solidarity should be maintained as the foundation, as an essential pillar of european integration, and even more so after the latest enlargements. economic, social and territorial cohesion requires a fair and equitable financing system which takes due account of the relative prosperity of the member states and their ability to contribute. this requires that the regressive elements of the present system be eliminated, that the returns that the more prosperous countries receive from the community budget be eliminated and that, as the report calls for, the future of own resources be based on the criteria of equity and progressiveness. the benefits of european policies, madam president, cannot be measured in terms of calculating net balances which do not take account, for example, of intra-community trade balances. in short, i believe that the central element of future european financing should be the contribution in relation to the gross national product of the member states.
opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. we all agree that we have an objective, a more effective and more democratic european union, and for this we need two instruments: the constitution, which is in the process of ratification, and the material means to achieve our objectives. our resources are not sufficient or transparent, and that is why the current situation is not sustainable. it is true that the european constitution establishes a new balance in which the european parliament has more powers as budgetary authority, but it does not yet acquire them in terms of own resources. although this balance seems acceptable today, in the future this house must be able to legislate on such own resources on the basis of two considerations: firstly, a direct relationship between citizens and the media; secondly, an end to exceptions, returns and cheques. if the lamassoure report goes in that direction, as i believe, we in the committee on constitutional affairs will be working in the same direction, both in this case and in the future text.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. it is a pity that our rapporteur, mr lamassoure, cannot be present at the debate on this important own-initiative report, and it is a real pity that parliament's work can start an hour and a half late, because we all suffer. in any event, the ppe-de group will support mr lamassoure's report, based above all on one observation: the last agreement on the financial perspective showed that the system is inadequate. it is despite the fact that mr lamassoure himself tells us in paragraph 10 that if the council had followed the 1992 edinburgh declaration, by allocating 1.24% of the gross domestic product of the european union to the community budget, we would have had 240 billion euros more, which would have been sufficient to finance over the years much more ambitious and much more effective community policies for each of the member states. so the edinburgh decision of 1992 itself contained the solutions which the member states were not able to adopt afterwards, as mr lamassoure himself says. it is therefore necessary to seek an optimal dimension of the community budget and not only to establish new own resources - which will be dealt with in the lamassoure report in the second phase and whose need we fully agree on - but also, as the rapporteur very clearly mentions, to establish a direct link between own resources and the policies to be financed, that is to say expenditure, but with a fundamental idea, madam president: solidarity. this means that those who receive structural funds or agricultural subsidies should not have to pay for the shortages imposed on us by the member states.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr ivo belet, as usual, but in this case very deservedly, for his ability to speak to all the groups and all the members. he himself reminded us at the beginning of this debate that we must not lose sight of the fact that this is a report on professional football, which adds a component which, from my point of view, is not just any component or adjective; i would also like to stress that we are dealing with an own-initiative report, that is to say, it is the first time that the european parliament has looked at football, it sends a signal about the concern it has for a phenomenon such as football. that means we have to identify very well what our dominant concerns are. if we talk about professional football, we have to talk basically about professional football clubs and spectators; without those two elements the problem we want to face would not exist. i therefore agree with mr heaton-harris's final reflection: any speculation which omits the prominence of the real football clubs is out of place. if we send a signal to the spectators saying: 'look, the european parliament wants to get its hands on the world of football to avoid the spectacle of the spectacle'; if we tell the big clubs, those that really have customers, social demand: 'look, you, by the principle of solidarity you will have a more limited income, you will not be able to sign the big players, nor will you be able to have these structures. we are going to make the show worse. i assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the football fans - many of whom are sitting here today - will look at us with a look of amazement. they would say, "so you care about football and you're sending the signal that you're going to make the show less attractive because you're going against the big football clubs". that is absurd; therefore, gentlemen, i ask that we bear that very much in mind when we approach the negotiation of the audiovisual rights of football clubs properly.
i also want to thank the rapporteur, in particular, for the spirit of collaboration in producing the report, a report on the future of professional football which is important not only for football, because it deals with issues which have recently proliferated as problems in the world of sport in general: violence on the pitch, racist acts, doping, lack of financial transparency, etc. i would like to focus on two issues: on the one hand, the growing economic importance of football, which has led to an increase in the value of television rights. it is important, in my view, that the report has incorporated the concern about the system of revenues from the sale of such rights, which can lead to a competitive imbalance between different clubs, although i regret - and it is something i miss in the report - that it has not taken into account that these revenues also depend on the impact of the club on the world audience, not just the national broadcasting market, nor that there is any redistribution of resources from the sale of the broadcasting rights of the national leagues between the teams. i am also pleased that the report takes account of the various national football associations in the european union, irrespective of whether they correspond to the sports governing structures or federations recognised by the member states. finally, i hope that the commission will take account of these suggestions from the european parliament when drawing up the white paper on sport.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank both rapporteurs and all members who took the floor, because many interesting points were raised. tomorrow you will have to decide on the precise content of the report, but much of what you said can be used as input not only for further discussions but also for work in favour of football and sport and europe as a community. one of the important points is, as mr belet said, to ask the relevant authorities to sit around the table and seek solutions. one of the messages is to work together. we have had close and regular dialogue for many years with bodies like uefa and fifa. the european sport review was discussed, as it continues to be now. i mentioned at the end of my introductory remarks the very interesting event that took place recently in manchester. i have heard the divided opinions of british colleagues. football is synonymous with the uk. we can convey many messages about the importance of cooperation for the sake and good health of football. in football, europe is a superpower. i do not want to speak about geopolitics, but i have attended international debates where it has often been said, mainly by african countries, that this dominance damages international relations and the sport. the africans have been very critical of the europeans. we should respond with clarity and credibility. there is a professional but also an amateur element. this is a very important pyramid for football and sport, where both elements and the pyramid as a whole are important. money is not the most important thing, because, if it were, then the whole pyramid would be turned upside down and that would be detrimental. for example, last year we agreed with fifa to support african engagement, via children’s football, to promote sport and integration. this is part of the preparations for the football world cup in south africa in 2010. two weeks ago, we met with sports ministers in stuttgart. there were two negative topics in the debate: violence and doping. these issues were also mentioned in your report. the ministers agreed to continue work on the establishment of a european network of anti-doping agencies, which is one of the contributions to ensuring the transparency and credibility of our actions. violence was also discussed. we will organise a conference on sport and hooliganism in november with the council of europe and the european parliament. we also spoke about the economy and sport and social inclusion via sport. for example, we agreed to produce more specific and more reliable data on the economics of sport to see how it contributes to the job market and growth in our countries. this is very important. the remaining points for the commission and in the coming white paper on sport are the following key words, which are a kind of mosaic for our relations in sport: specificity, subsidiarity, autonomy and, of course, diversity – which is so visible and important in not only culture but also sport, transparency, rules-based activities and relations. however, all that must be implemented within the eu legal framework, not outside, which you firmly support. in conclusion, we are now in the process of consultation on the white paper. as i have said, once these reports are adopted tomorrow, they will help in this preparatory work. we have now received 670 contributions and more than 200 of these are collective, i.e. on behalf of associations and federations. therefore, we need work together to get it right for the sake and credibility of europe, which also has broader international responsibility in sport. europe is a cradle of many disciplines, including football and the olympic ideal and ideas, and we have to promote the values of these traditions and activities in a larger area of european cooperation and internationally. i should like to thank all members of the european parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. written declarations (rule 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the - report by marta vincenzi, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the enforcement of the obligations of the flag state (com ((2005) 0586 - c6-0062/2006 - 2005/0236 (cod)) (a6-0058/2007) and - report by gilles savary, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the civil liability and financial guarantees of shipowners (com ((2005) 0593 - c6-0039/2006 - 2005/0242 (cod)) (a6-0055/2007).
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments. it is true that i am speaking not only on my own behalf but also on behalf of mr antonio lópez-istúriz, who was the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs on the savary report. as you know, the two reports we are debating today, the main authors of which are mrs vincenzi and mr savary, are part of what has been called the third package of measures on maritime safety. the fundamental objective of the seven proposals making up the package is to strengthen the security of our seas. since we are discussing two reports together, i will not, because it would be impolite, omit to refer to mrs vincenzi's report, a report with which we strongly agree. i shall, however, be permitted to refer more specifically to the savary report. the report is a bold and determined claim which deserves my praise and support. it is not an easy task, as none of the seven proposals in the package are, and it is not easy for everyone to take on, because we are talking about the financial responsibilities and guarantees of shipowners and it is legitimate for this sector to seek to dilute this responsibility or postpone binding decisions. i do not want to criticise the seamen; it is their right and their position is legitimate. i too wanted to avoid putting doors on the sea at the time and advocated that the imo should be the area of competence in a matter as globalised as maritime affairs. i have come up against a general view of parliament which has finally convinced me. it is better, as was done in his day with the double helmet requirement imposed by the always remembered loyola de palacio. the european union took the decisions first, followed by the imo. if it had been the other way around, the recent disaster in gibraltar would have surely led to a new catastrophe of great proportions. i would like to begin by thanking you for accepting the amendments which call for the mandatory ratification of the convention on civil liability for damage caused by pollution from oil for fuels on ships. secondly, i would like to focus on a subject which i believe is of interest and for which i would like to call for support: the creation of a solidarity fund to cover damage caused by a ship which has not subscribed to any financial guarantee. it is a question of filling a gap so that it is possible, in the event of a disaster caused by one of the vessels, which, despite the obligations laid down in this directive, sails through our community seas without a certificate of financial security. in any event, compensation for damage caused by a ship lacking financial guarantees should not be borne by the member state which is ultimately the victim of the accident, but should, in our view, be borne by a consortium which, like other consortiums under comparative law, is responsible for such contingencies.
mr president, commissioner, we are living in the era of globalisation, which certainly has its ups and downs, but which fortunately is making us aware of the great affections on the planet which human activity and development imply. among other things, the marine environment, so important to our food, our leisure and our transport, is under constant assault from pollutants, both from land and from the sea. the latter include some - the least - resulting from unavoidable incidents, while the majority are caused by ship owners and operators who continue to operate irresponsibly, disregarding international safety standards and practices. the specific cases of the prestige and the erika were notable, but we must not forget the pollution that occurs daily from uncontrolled dumping of waste from bilge tanks and tank cleaning. we therefore have an obligation to impose all the controls and means at our disposal to tackle these criminal behaviours, and we must require all flag states to fulfil their responsibility, to have qualified inspectors with the necessary experience, and to have their port authorities verify the reliability of vessel hulls and compliance with waste disposal regulations. on this last point, i would like to urge the commission to propose legislation to ensure that all vessels have automatic devices for recording the levels of liquid in bilge tanks and tanks every hour, like black boxes carried by airplanes, to detect criminal activities against the marine environment. this is the only way to achieve the goal. i would like to end by congratulating the rapporteurs on their excellent work.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me thank and congratulate you. i believe that this report, even though it comes - and i regret it a little - at a very late hour, illustrates how much parliament is now largely the guarantor of the general european interest. i thank all the members who have really worked hard on these dossiers. i believe that we have a package here that should not be separated. these seven proposals form a whole. they make it possible to secure the entire maritime transport chain and for that reason i believe that the packages should be preserved. i would first like to respond to mrs vicenzi's report. i would first like to point out that this european approach does not seem to be incompatible with the overall approach within the international maritime organisation (imo). but it is true that we can, thanks to the community, promote within the imo an approach to see international standards better applied by all flag states. and this approach is not incompatible with the approach of ensuring at community level that each member state will have a quality flag. in future, it is the quality of the pavilions that will make them more attractive and will also make it possible to defend a high-level community employment in the maritime sector. shipping companies will also benefit from this improvement, as these quality flags will result in a reduction in controls in ports. so, thank you again, mrs vicenzi. i would also add, mr president, that i do not share the council's reservations and will therefore be returning to some of the amendments, in line with the committee's work in general. with amendments nos 25 and 26, you are changing the presentation of the criteria which determine the additional investigations to be undertaken by the flag administration. i can accept that, with one reservation however: ships which have not been inspected in the last twelve months under port state control must not be allowed to escape such investigations. so amendments nos 25 and 26 could be revised or even improved. amendments nos 43, 44 and 52 weaken the proposal by reducing the level of recruitment of flag state inspectors. do you not think that we should maintain a high level of qualification? so i have a real problem with amendments nos 43, 44 and 52, and i cannot accept them. while many other amendments clarify the position, some of them - amendment no 2, amendment no 6, amendment no 13, amendment no 17 - are likely to create some confusion, because they refer to the instruments of the international labour organisation and go beyond the scope of the proposal. i am therefore not in a position to accept them. finally, i would like to mention amendments nos 4 and 12, which give the member states' administrations and private operators the possibility of bringing cases directly before the committee on safe seas and the prevention of pollution from ships. but these amendments do not recognise the commission's exclusive right of initiative in exercising the implementing powers conferred on it. they are therefore not acceptable to the commission. these are just a few comments, which do not detract from my support for mrs vicenzi's work, which is quite remarkable. and once again, i am absolutely convinced that the member states will have to agree to move forward along this path. it is absolutely essential and it will be, in the long run, a competitive advantage to have high quality pavilions. so i now come to mr savary's proposal. i thank him very much. he stressed that the two proposals tonight were somewhat avant-garde. yes, precisely, if we want to make progress, we must try a number of attempts to engage the member states in a much more courageous policy, a much more determined strategy, to avoid the return of the black tide. will the directive help to strengthen the protection of victims? i'm sure you do. the introduction of a compulsory insurance system for all vessels entering european waters, mr savary said, is an innovation in the maritime world. insurance should be reliable and accessible, which is why we propose that the public authorities should check the strength of insurance coverage in advance and why we envisage that victims will be able to go directly to insurers to assert their rights. there will also be protection for victims, as long as a minimum of compensation is guaranteed. this minimum corresponds to the standards of the convention on the limitation of liability for maritime claims (in its 1996 version), standards which, moreover, are sufficient in most cases. but it is true that the directive provides for the transfer of the civil liability of ship owners in certain cases so that victims can be compensated for their losses. so, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that this proposal for a directive is making a real step forward in our maritime law. i would like to thank you again for the courage it took to face up to some opposition and to move towards the modernisation of the private law of the sea. some principles of the existing maritime law are no longer justified. and they end up with the operators being relieved of responsibility. we are aiming to have a high-quality merchant fleet, our own fleet and the ships of third countries in transit. i now come back to mr savary's proposal. the aim is to have a high-quality merchant fleet, our own fleet and the ships of third countries in transit, and to enable victims to be compensated for the damage they have suffered, which is not possible under the existing legal principles. key amendments nos 10 and 20, on serious and inexcusable fault, go in that direction. we support them. you have also shown a certain lucidity in that you have improved and clarified a number of elements of the proposal: amendments nos 9, 11, 14 and 19. you have introduced new provisions which we consider valuable, in particular amendments nos 16 and 17 on the obligation for member states to ratify pending conventions without delay. there are, however, a few amendments which we can accept in principle but cannot accept completely. these are amendments nos 23, 26 and 27, which refer to the creation of a new community office to manage insurance certificates. the idea is certainly very attractive, but should we create a new structure when there is already a european maritime safety agency? what are the tasks to be fulfilled? you will understand that we want a further detailed examination of the implications of these amendments. i come now to amendment no 25, which provides for the creation of a solidarity fund. we are not convinced of the need for this new structure. is this really useful in view of the very small number of residual cases once the directive has been implemented? and besides the practical difficulties of setting up such a fund, how can we prevent the 'good' ship owners from paying for the 'bad' ones? here are the main points of my remarks. a full list of the amendments and the commission's position on each of them will be sent to parliament's secretariat for the two proposals in question. but whatever my reservations about certain amendments, mr president, i should like to congratulate you on a very good parliamentary work. i would like to thank the rapporteurs once again, thank mr costa and all the members of his committee and thank parliament in general for this excellent work which i hope will enable us to make progress towards this maritime safety which we need more than ever, given the development of maritime transport. the european union is not only a member of the european community, but also of the european community. so we have an urgent duty to move forward. i thank parliament for understanding this and for supporting us as it has done.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr csaba sándor tabajdi, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the integration of the new member states into the cap (2006/2042 (ini)) (a6-0037/2007).
member of the commission. first of all, on the issue of whether the timing of this debate reflects the importance of the inclusion of the new member states, i can only say that this house is responsible for its own scheduling. i could say clearly that i would have preferred it to have taken place earlier this evening as well, but i have to defer to parliament’s scheduling. the phasing-in of direct payment was an issue raised by almost all of you. it is mentioned in several paragraphs in the report as well. i would like to explain that the phasing-in was not introduced solely for budgetary reasons. in the run-up to accession, the commission made a thorough analysis of all the relevant factors. based on this, the accession strategy for the common agricultural policy was based on economic, social and ecological factors. it was also necessary to boost the essential restructuring in the new member states. this was not a decision that was taken in the council of the 15 member states. this was a decision that was taken in copenhagen in 2002 with all the new member states participating in the discussions on the phasing-in of the direct payments. so everybody was around the table. so, on the statement that our own reforms are doing away with agriculture, i have to tell you clearly that it is actually to ensure that there will be a future for european agriculture, and i am sure that if we work together in parliament, the council and the commission, we can create a future for european agriculture with all the strength that our sector has for delivering the high-quality products that we will need for the future, and i think that the example of the imports of frozen strawberries from china is an example where, when we join together, we can find decent solutions. discrimination in the common agricultural policy was mentioned as well within the wine and food sector. come on! i think that we have tried to find a solution that can enable the new member states to go together in the producer organisations in the fruit and vegetable sector by giving a higher co-financing percentage to the new member states, by encouraging their sectors, their fruit and vegetable producers, to join these producer organisations so that they can be much stronger in their competition with the big retail sectors. so, instead of quarrelling, let us stick together and find decent solutions for the common agricultural policy within the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. written declarations (rule 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the presence of the high representative, mr solana, at the arab league summit is, in my view, a success in itself. it is a success at a particular moment, as the president-in-office of the european union showed us yesterday, when the union is seeking to consolidate itself internally through the constitutional debate and also to project itself externally, as mr solana told us, through a visible and effective policy. i would like to make a few comments on the fresco painted by mr solana and ask a few questions about the issues raised. i think it is very prudent that you have referred to the government of national unity and the new situation created in palestine, in the sense of applying the evangelical maxim that 'by their deeds you will know them' and not changing the attitude of the european union overnight, but being open and attentive and listening to what the new situation may entail. beyond the subject of kosovo and serbia, mr solana, it might be interesting if you could give us a brief overview of the european horizon for the western balkans in this debate on the prospects for the common foreign and security policy for the european union. i know we may not have much time, but it might be good to have a few brushstrokes in this direction. on the issue of the missile shield, we have seen that you have welcomed the conversation between president bush and president putin yesterday, and in the light of the lack of competence of the union, which you have mentioned in this debate, i think it would be good to know whether the european union is going to hold and will hold such consultations as have been held between russia and the united states. i would also like, if possible, to hear some of the statements made yesterday by the kazakh minister in the presence of the community troika, to the effect that if the west thinks it can open an energy corridor in the caspian sea without the agreement of moscow and tehran, this would be very complicated. finally, mr president, i would like to know when the negotiating directives on the association agreements with the andean community and the central american community are expected to be available, and whether the council will invite parliament to the next ministerial summit of the rio group, as it has done on other occasions, because the invitation has not yet been received.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
if the pse group agrees, we could vote on the amendments together, but we need the agreement of this group.
are you requesting a one-minute interruption?
the voting is closed.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 1.15 p.m.)
the report is the result of closer cooperation between the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on legal affairs. it will be debated at the last minute tonight and there are some amendments which we would like to consider in order to try to get the report to benefit from the maximum consensus. that is why i would ask for the vote to be postponed until wednesday, mr president.
mr president, science is an essential part of our lives and therefore of our culture. the dissemination of scientific culture requires the ability to bring science and technology closer to the people, to stimulate the curiosity of young people and to provide adults with mechanisms that are close and accessible to help them enter these subjects. it also requires greater support for the public dissemination of research results and scientific policy. these are the objectives that have prompted the government of my country, spain, to declare 2007 the year of science, coinciding with the centenary of the creation of the board for the extension of scientific studies and research, chaired by nobel prize winner santiago ramón y cajal, which has been defined as the greatest modernising experience of science in my country. experience, unfortunately, interrupted by forty years of dictatorship. to this end, congresses, exhibitions and all kinds of activities to promote science are being held, with the collaboration of public and private organizations and entities. it is a very positive experience, mr president, which we must support and which i would like to draw to your attention so that other member states are encouraged to do the same.
mr president, last week there was a general strike in the bay of cádiz in spain, supported by all the people of the bay, against the closure of the delphi factory, which is to lay off 1,600 workers. delphi is a subsidiary of general motors, a company that has received public subsidies from the state and had therefore committed itself to maintaining production until 2010. in parallel, last week, general motors announced the elimination of 1 400 jobs at its factory in antwerp, belgium. it's a whole symbol. it seems as if the european union, the european institutions, do not have the political capacity to regulate the car market and to make a clear commitment to a social model that prevents multinationals from doing business and pirating with the workers of europe. they are public enterprises that receive public subsidies and yet they relocate companies, doing irreversible damage to workers. we therefore believe that this institution, together with the european commission and the respective governments, must put a stop to this situation and defend the jobs of workers.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in tobacco products. the different sanctioning regimes in different countries not only affect the smooth functioning of the internal market, but also make it more difficult to combat counterfeiting and piracy effectively. it is important that rightholders enjoy equivalent protection throughout the community. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of consumers in the event of accidents. counterfeiters benefit from the internet because counterfeit or imitation products can be distributed worldwide without any loss of time. the mechanisms appear to be increasingly linked to organised crime and i must point out that the number of products which have to be withdrawn from the internal market has increased in a worrying way in recent times. these are usually counterfeit products. the fight against counterfeiting is therefore of the utmost importance to the community, and the vote here in the european parliament is an important step along this road. the commission welcomes the european parliament's acceptance and support for the general principle underlying this amended proposal for a directive. i would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr zingaretti. in its resolution of 7 september 2006 on the need to act immediately against the counterfeiting of medicinal products, parliament supported the commission's view that the penal sanctions should be harmonised as soon as possible. the commission also welcomes the fact that the committee's report provides for the same penalties for these offences as for serious crimes. the commission is nevertheless unhappy about some of the points that have emerged from the debate: firstly, that parliament wants to limit the scope of the directive to the area of community competence only. i must point out that this will lead to great difficulties in the practical implementation of the directive. in addition, the definition of the concept of 'intellectual property right' does not seem to be sufficient, as a number of aspects remain unclear. finally, the definitions of 'infringement on an industrial scale' and 'intentional infringement of an intellectual property right' do not provide any additional benefit. they can be misleading and undermine legal certainty. in the interests of consumer safety and the competitiveness of our economy, i would ask you very warmly to support the commission's proposal.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. the text we are about to vote on, the commission's text, has nothing to do with the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy and has nothing to do with the legitimate fight against fraud and piracy which affects the health and safety of people. that's what we all agree on. the amendment to the proposal on intellectual property rights, on the other hand, seeks to criminalise the exchange of information and culture. in voting in favour of the amended proposal on intellectual property rights in its present form, parliament treats the mafia and the ordinary citizen equally. neither the profit motive nor the scale of the crime is clear. the scope of this directive is indiscriminate and it puts everything in the criminal field, whereas the civil field is already generally functioning well. in addition, a great deal of legal uncertainty is being created to mount a genuine hysterical witch hunt that shoots in all directions, scares citizens and freezes the innovation of thousands of small and large companies that should not fear prison, and we can already see the massive response against this directive on the internet. we cannot act in this way against the flow of information and culture.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr zingaretti's report on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council directive on criminal measures to ensure the enforcement of intellectual property rights is a very balanced proposal which has won the broad support of the committee on legal affairs and also, to some extent, of the other committees which have dealt with the subject. intellectual property - as mr zingaretti has said - deserves protection and i think that what the committee on legal affairs has done, with the various amendments it has tabled, is to correct, perhaps, some of the extremes in the terms pointed out by mr mayer, who has just spoken on behalf of the group of the european people's party. in concrete terms, for example, it makes no sense to extend criminal protection to the area of patents - the area of industrial property - which actually finds its protection in the civil sphere, because of the complications that arise from this. nor does it make sense to criminalise a series of activities - those of critics, journalists, intellectuals or teachers, who can be put behind bars for a simple quote, or that of an innocent user of the media that internet technology makes available to us today, whereby, by touching a key at a certain time, one can be subject to a criminal offence. i think it is important that we strengthen the criminal protection of intellectual property, but in doing so it should be done in accordance with certain principles, so that criminal protection is not taken beyond what is strictly necessary. criminal protection is always exceptional in nature, since there are other means in the legal system to obtain it. i believe that the proposals made by mr zingaretti - the proposal contained in the report of the committee on legal affairs and the amendments which he has finally tabled with mr mayer - enable us to define the scope of this criminal protection and that this house should therefore approve this report with the amendments which it considers appropriate to adopt in the vote on it.
commissioner, you can't play with criminal law. the union can now exercise - and it is right that it should exercise - a new power which the court of justice has recognised: to take on the criminal dimension of the powers which it is entitled to exercise. that, i think, makes perfect sense and we should all support it. but you have to do it with prudence, with wisdom and with legal quality. and none of the three things is in the text we are talking about here: lack of prudence, lack of wisdom and lack of legal quality. i say this with all due respect to those who have been directly involved in its elaboration. there is very little of that in this report. the scope is excessive. the field is absolutely confusing in something, i insist, as important as criminal law. concepts are used in fields that are not harmonised in the european union. fighting piracy, yes, of course, and even criminal. we can support you in that. it fights against piracy in the criminal sphere. but to extend this to issues which have never left the civil sphere in the member states makes no sense, and even less so when concepts are not harmonised and words do not mean the same thing, not even in the field of piracy. it is pointless to send the message that the criminal is directly the citizen when there is no commercial dimension or when there is no scale of volume. we must pursue it, otherwise we will be making a lot of noise, but with very few nuts, commissioner.
after a long process, the european parliament will finally adopt its position on the adoption of criminal measures to ensure respect for intellectual property rights, measures which i believe are absolutely necessary. i want to make some comments from the cultural point of view. in order to foster the development of knowledge in general and culture in particular, it is necessary to recognise the dual economic and cultural value of creation as a driver of artistic, scientific, cultural diversity and research development. moreover, in the era of digitalisation and increasing commercial liberalisation - also of cultural goods and services - it is important to strike an appropriate and fair balance between copyright holders and users or consumers in order to ensure effective access to this cultural and intellectual progress, while combating piracy and counterfeiting in a context of increased community harmonisation. in this respect, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work, and in particular on the commitment he has made to exclude from the scope of the directive infringements for personal and non-profit-making purposes, since they do not deserve the same treatment as intentional infringement of an intellectual property right committed on a commercial scale, to which i do believe the appropriate sanction should be applied.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to pay tribute to the mastery of financial management that the directorate-general for budgets has achieved at this stage of 2007. year after year, period after period of financial perspectives, the council confronts the european commission with circumstances which are very difficult to overcome. each year the european commission is obliged to meet more and more ambitious objectives with increasingly scarce financial resources. it seems that the member states see the european union as a perfect window to bring in and satisfy national public opinion, in a very cheap way, by the way. when member states discover concern among citizens either for growth or for jobs, they launch the lisbon strategy and tell the european commission to seek funding. when they find that the european public is concerned about immigration or energy or global warming, they ask the commission to seek funding for these spectacular measures. the problem is that commitments are not cancelled and yesterday's priorities are not lost because other priorities are put forward. sooner rather than later, the european commission - despite its general committee on budgets - will come to the end of the rope and all this brilliant financial engineering of back-loading and front-loading will not be enough to address so many priorities. that may be the time for the big financial decisions and let us hope that the european commission will be politically up to the standards it has reached today.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner kroes, ladies and gentlemen, the existence of economic freedom, the functioning of the internal market and the sustainability of european development are inseparable from competition policy. since the signing of the treaty of rome 50 years ago, its importance has continued to grow. competition is an indicator of european vitality and excellence, a key policy for delivering on the lisbon strategy and achieving the union's objectives. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the power to impose fines on the infringements of competition law. it is important to have both deterrence and reaction capabilities. the treatment of infringements has been carried out mainly by means of public administrative actions. the centralisation of the application of article 81 (3) through a priori control by the commission, which was mitigated by the exemption regulations from the 1980s onwards, was a victim of its own success; the demand for more and better competition revealed its economic inefficiency and its legal insufficiency. the role of private actions was underlined by the court of justice of the european communities when the courage v crehan judgment of 2001 recognised the possibility for anyone to claim damages from the infringer before national courts. the modernisation of council regulation (ec) no 1/2003 broke the commission's monopoly and recognised a more open system, applied in a decentralised manner by the administrative authorities in the community competition authorities network and also directly by the national judicial authorities. the possibility of private actions is not something exotic, but a return to the classical case-law that community law imposes obligations on states and individuals, and produces vertical and horizontal effects which can be protected by judicial review. its use in the member states, according to the commission study, reveals a surprising diversity and total underdevelopment, in contrast to the united states, where nine out of ten enforcement procedures are judicial. the rapporteur welcomes the commission's publication of a green paper to identify obstacles to private action and to seek solutions to remove them. in an advanced competition system, public action against the impunity of offenders must be complemented by private action against immunity and compensation for the damage caused to the victims of their conduct. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied more effectively. it responds to reasons of efficiency and justice. the imposition of fines is insufficient if it is not accompanied by private actions which prevent the infringer from enjoying advantages over competitors because of the infringement and compensate victims for the damage caused. the report considers that public and private actions form two pillars with the complementary purpose of safeguarding the market discipline inherent in the public interest and protecting the private interests of the participants. the application of community competition law by administrative and judicial authorities should not lead to a breakdown in the uniformity of its implementation. a decision cannot vary according to the nature of the authority adopting it. this is a critical point. it is necessary to maintain the community acquis and the effectiveness of leniency programmes, to coordinate public and private actions and to intensify cooperation between all the competent authorities. the report proposes a community model in line with the legal culture of the union, which takes account of the legal traditions of the member states. it rejects a shift towards the north american model by not sharing the desirability of introducing its unique features such as the possibility of judicial authorities composed of non-professionals class actions, the fixing of compensation for triple damages, excesses in access to documents and the system of professional fees or procedural costs. we must compensate for asymmetries and avoid irresponsibility, without breaking the procedural principle of equality of arms or artificially stimulating litigation. it is about encouraging the rational use of legal action, not judicial activism, and above all, about promoting the amicable and early resolution of conflicts. community competence is an exclusive competence of the european union. national administrative or judicial procedures do not alter this condition and should not prevent common guidelines or guidance for sanctions, in accordance with the principles of better law-making. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the legal affairs committee, mr doorn, for his valuable cooperation, the help of the alternative rapporteurs and the contributions of the amendments. i appreciate the constant and exemplary dialogue with the commission during the drafting of the report and i encourage the commissioner to continue to demonstrate her commitment in the next white paper.
the commission has also taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2005 and has also adopted a number of amendments to the budget. i have to say that from a budgetary point of view 2005 was not a bad year. it was a difficult exercise, as the european commission and the college of commissioners were faced with not very simple circumstances, as this was the first full budget of the enlarged union and, moreover, it is the first budget to be implemented in full by this new college of commissioners. i should therefore like to start by saying that the european commission has done a good job. that is why this rapporteur proposes that we give discharge for the management of the community budget in 2005, and that is what will be put to the vote in the house. that does not mean, of course, that there is no strong and well-founded criticism, both in certain directorates-general and in a structural and possibly very difficult-to-solve criticism, on some of the financial control issues which should be improved by the commission in the coming years. i would also like to point out that the commission has reacted quite well to the court of auditors' report and has advanced a number of lines of its new action plan which i hope will allow positive control in the coming years. in my resolution i have basically dealt with the subject of national declarations. the national management declarations are of great importance to this parliament. they were set up in 2003 and are intended to provide a guarantee by the member states that they have effective audit systems for community expenditure. in addition, they should be signed by someone with some authority at national level and, although the treaty states that the european commission is responsible for managing the budget, we must not forget that 80% of it is managed in the member states. we therefore felt that a new initiative of national declarations was necessary. we support the courageous initiatives, in our view, taken by some member states - and i am referring in particular to the netherlands and the united kingdom - which have put forward in the council these ideas of national declarations of control which may not be followed by other member states, since their territorial distribution and organization are different. but it's a step forward. and what we propose in the report is that the type, the form of future declarations should be left open, so that they can reflect the realities of the political systems of each member state. but as a fundamental idea, we as the european parliament want these national declarations to go ahead, because that is the only way to really involve the member states in the responsibility for the control of community funds, which is really the basis of this declaration of discharge. and then there is a very important point about national declarations: the das, as we members understand it, is a dead end, and we members who have followed the declarations of reliability very closely for 12 years know this. today it is impossible to establish the legality of the underlying transactions in the member states, particularly in the structural funds. we therefore need to do something to improve the quality of the audit, the involvement of the member states and that is why we are asking the council to issue a national management declaration covering all the funds co-managed, based on the declarations of the various national bodies responsible for the management of expenditure. in conclusion, mr president, although my report covers more, i believe that we could achieve a positive sda in the coming years, which is necessary for the community institutions and, in particular, very necessary for public opinion, which wants to see reliability, transparency and control of every last euro of public funds administered by both the commission and the member states.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i am grateful for the quality and balance of the report before us today. for this i would like to thank the committee on budgetary control, the committee’s previous chairman, mr fazakas, its current chairman, mr bösch, and, of course, the rapporteur, mr garriga polledo. mr garriga polledo’s report proposes that parliament grant the commission discharge for its implementation of the budget and agree on the clearance of accounts. the commission is pleased to take note of this. i wish to comment on why i think it is deserved. to begin with, your recommendations will be followed up. in fact, we have done much already, including the following: we are implementing the revised financial regulation, which implies, among other things, enforcing the agreed provisions requiring member states to produce ‘an annual summary at the appropriate national level of available audits and declarations’. we will continue to report progress on our action plan towards an integrated internal control framework, as you ask in paragraph 56. in fact, i will present the progress report to the committee on budgetary control next week. we have improved, can improve and will improve the accounts. for the 2006 accounts, we have already provided better information on recoveries and financial corrections. this means that you can count on our accounts’ reliability. we are pursuing the european transparency initiative. with parliament’s support progress on this file is being made every day. in this year’s report, parliament ‘assures the commission of its full support in the rigorous application of the legislation on suspension of payments to member states’. when i appeared before the committee on budgetary control on 1 march to discuss the draft garriga polledo report, i said that i would propose to my colleagues in the commission a very careful analysis of the issues leading to reserves in the declarations of the directors-general this year and, depending on the importance of the problems and the risk identified, suspend payments or apply financial corrections. we had serious discussions for more than two hours, and the outcome was a very strong affirmation of the determination of the college to take the necessary steps. today i would like to highlight several concrete decisions taken. first, as regards the integrated administration and control system (iacs) in greece and agricultural subsidies, a very clear action plan has now been agreed with greece in order to ensure proper implementation of the iacs in that country. the action plan lays down unambiguous deadlines for action to be taken. as commissioner fischer boel stated plainly during the discharge hearing in the committee on budgetary control last november, the commission will suspend payments to greece for direct aid if the agreed action plan and the deadlines are not respected by the greek authorities. the first important report from the greek authorities is due on 15 may. i would also recall that the commission on a routine basis claws back eu farm money unduly spent by member states, returning the funds to the community budget in the ‘clearance of accounts’ procedure. under the latest decision taken last week, a total of eur 285.3 million is being recovered from 14 member states for reasons relating in particular to insufficiencies in controls as well as the non-respect of payment deadlines by member states. second, in the area of structural action, on 4 april 2007, the commission suspended payments to erdf programmes in five of the nine regions of england, plus one programme in a sixth. if no, or insufficient, action is taken, a flat-rate correction ranging from 5 to 10 % or 25 % of the amounts paid out and specific to each programme will be decided by the commission to address the infringement of the rules and the extent and financial implications of the remaining shortcomings. suspensions and reservations often lead to the necessary improvements. in 2005, for example, dg regio had reservations on the adequacy of control systems in spain. in 2006, the dg audited that again and found that progress had made it unnecessary to repeat the reserve. likewise, for the european social fund, in early 2006 the commission signalled its reservations on the systems in place in the united kingdom. improvements were made by the uk and the reserve could be lifted. these examples show that the commission can and does interrupt payments. the basis for decisions like these must be well justified and explained in a detailed manner. we have therefore made great efforts again this year to improve the quality of the annual activity reports of commission directorates-general. the court was rather critical of commission controls in the research area. this is direct management by the commission and we have given this issue the highest priority. an ex-post audit strategy is now in place across the research family of dgs for audits on the sixth framework programme (fp6). this is a robust strategy and is accompanied by a significant increase in the percentage of the research budget covered by ex-post audits. there will be 300 audits for fp6 in 2007, compared with 45 carried out in 2006. reflecting the priority given to this, the commission is reallocating a significant number of staff to audit tasks and undertaking the necessary additional recruitment. furthermore, serious consideration is being given to the gradual introduction of lump sums in certain specific areas of the framework programme. let me say a few words on agencies. the commission has noted the increasing concern in parliament over regulatory agencies. we already provide a lot of support to the agencies and i think expectations and responsibilities must be clarified, in particular before new agencies are created. we will therefore push for immediate progress on the proposed interinstitutional agreement. the council has indicated its willingness to continue discussions on this. its adoption would really help to address recommendations of parliament on issues such as a systemic and regular evaluation and cost-benefit studies of the agencies and the harmonisation of their annual reporting. the commission remains accountable to the budgetary authority in implementing the budget. we do so by informing you openly and honestly about our strengths and weaknesses. we are grateful for your fair recognition of both.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i speak as rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs on the 2005 budget. it is a matter of quite a few agencies, some of which mrs haug has already mentioned, and in general we have the same observations. but first i would like to refer to the implementation of the general budget of the committee on civil liberties, and it can be done quite briefly. we note that some progress has been made in the implementation of commitments, but we must nevertheless make a stop at the implementation of payments. we are at a level of 79.8% for 2005 compared to 80.3% for 2004. this is one of the lowest levels in the commission. mrs haug has already mentioned others who seem to be in the same situation. i think it goes without saying that we must improve this situation. we also know that next year's money is at risk if we do not know how to use it. as regards the implementation of the budget for eurojust (european judicial cooperation unit), we note that the court of auditors has reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for this year have been reliable and, as regards the corresponding operations, that all are lawful, as could not be otherwise, and regular. however, there are no situations that cannot be improved. here too, eurojust must be asked to follow this path by improving its financial management. as regards the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, the commission is also satisfied with the legality of the underlying operations. however, we note that the observatory should be asked to improve its clarity and, above all, the transparency of its tendering procedures. and finally, i shall deal with the implementation of the budget of the monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. in this case, the committee on civil liberties, like the court of auditors, wishes to make two serious admonitions. various unacceptable anomalies have been found in the procurement and tendering procedures and substantial improvement of these processes must be demanded. it must be admitted, however, that some measures are already having an effect, but there is still a long way to go before everything is, shall we say, acceptable and correct. perhaps the most thorny thing of all - we have already asked the commission to do so - is that, like the court of auditors, we note and deplore the maladministration in the case of an agent sent to brussels on a long-term mission without a clear definition of his objectives; above all, there is a great deal of obscurity about his subsequent assignment to the commission. there are a lot of european taxpayers' money there that should be explained. the committee on civil liberties therefore calls for a thorough investigation of this case and for appropriate measures to be taken to prevent such events from happening in the future. the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, which is the same as the committee on budgetary control, is therefore that we recommend discharge.
i would like to begin with a procedural question. madam president, where is the council? i insist, where is the council? we are talking about a budget which is 90% spent by the member states. where is the council? mr. kallas, where's the council? my dear friend herbert bösch, the german media that are following us, the frankfurter allgemeine, die welt, where is the council? why is it not present when we are talking about how the council spends 90% of our budget? my dear friends herbert bösch, markus ferber, my dear german colleagues, we are in the german presidency, where is the council? why is the council not here, looking the other way, listening to all the allusions we are making about how the member states are spending the budget? i hope that in the committee on budgetary control, chaired by herbert bösch, we will take the initiative to say that it is scandalous - if the press is not already saying it - that the council is not here, that someone from the council is not here to give a face, to be able to respond if necessary to the allusions we make to it. i certainly cannot allude to it more directly. well, this is a serious matter, this debate is gaining weight year after year, and we understand, and i applaud, the communication by vice-president siim kallas that we have already recovered 2.1 billion euros, precisely from the member states, which have spent badly and we are recovering them. i'd love to know how this 2.1 billion euros is distributed. we have asked him and we are confident that, within the transparency initiative which he is leading and which this parliament will support, we can get the details. this is perhaps the way in which the council comes to its senses. what is not well spent goes back into the community coffers, and for that i applaud siim kallas' initiative to be especially hard, honest and strong in recovering funds which have been badly spent.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! i thank you for the opportunity to speak to you here. i also thank mr andreyev for the report he has presented, because it makes one thing clear: hiv/aids remains a threatening disease. we often think of africa when we think of hiv/aids - and rightly so. however, hiv/aids is also an issue in europe, on our continent. in some parts of our continent, we are now seeing a faster increase in infections than in other parts of the world, and unfortunately we have an increase in infections in all the member states of the european union. that is why we must make this issue our issue, because hiv/aids is more than a health policy problem. it is also a question of the economic and socio-political developments in the countries concerned. i am therefore very pleased that we have succeeded in bringing together more than 41 european countries represented at government level - ministers or deputy ministers, also from our neighbouring countries - at the bremen conference, that we have shown the importance of linking politics and civil society in the fight against hiv/aids and that it has also become clear that hiv/aids must be a top priority. i am very grateful to the german chancellor for her clear statement and for the fact that the results of this conference and the conclusions will not only be the subject of the health ministers' council but also of the summit in june. the bremen declaration has made clear, in particular, in four key points, where our priorities must be, and they are very much in line with what you have set out in your report and also in the drafting. prevention must be at the heart of all strategies, because we have no drugs or vaccines to prevent the spread of hiv/aids. the recognition, respect and promotion of the human rights of the sick is essential. this includes protection against discrimination and stigmatisation. general access to diagnosis and treatment must be ensured. the question has just been raised whether we can negotiate drug prices. bremen has made a breakthrough: the pharmaceutical industry has made it clear that affordability of medicines is part of a good supply. it has expressed its willingness to work with the commission, parliament and the member states to find a way of ensuring access to affordable treatment and vaccination, depending on the member state, through price negotiations. that's a step forward. the commitment to research and development must also be strengthened. we need to better network the opportunities in europe and we need to increase investment in vaccines and microbicides. i think we've made some progress with this conference. i would be very pleased if we member states, together with parliament and the commission, put this issue at the top of the agenda and say: aids affects us all. it is not just a problem of our neighbouring countries, it is a problem of europe. it has a lot to do with our socio-political and economic development, and also a lot to do with whether we succeed in creating added value for our citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr andrejevs, and the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their excellent work in drafting this report. i would also like to thank the other two committees, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, for their contributions on this important issue. let me also say how happy i am that mrs schmidt, the german health minister, is here today. it is the first time in my three years as commissioner that my counterpart from the council has attended such a debate in plenary. i am very happy, because it demonstrates the importance of all three institutions working together very closely, very firmly and very effectively in dealing with this disease. hiv/aids: is it a forgotten problem or is it a hidden disease? is our approach that if we do not talk about it, it will go away? well, it does not work like that. the question, then, is have we become complacent? do we take it for granted that we have overcome this problem, that there is no need for action or that it is a problem for others, for certain risk groups? that they, therefore, must deal with it, while we do not have to worry about it? maybe that was in people’s minds in the past, but i am glad that today it is not the case. we now know that this is a problem for the whole of society. perhaps society is now paying because of our complacency in the past and now is the time to take new effective action to deal with this problem. most of you know my frustration that in the european union, where we have the highest level of education in the world, the highest level of healthcare and the highest standard of living, people still die because of the wrong lifestyle choices. our efforts to ensure prevention aim to address that. for me it is frustrating, and even embarrassing, that 20 or 25 years on we still have to discuss the same issues regarding hiv/aids. we still have to discuss the same measures to be taken, measures that should now be standard and routine in the european union. we still have to explain that the simple use of condoms is the most effective way to protect ourselves. it is a simple truth. we must also explain that everybody is at risk; we cannot start saying to some groups that it is their problem and that those not in the risk group do not have to worry about it. we still have to stress that simple preventative measures do protect. the results of the eurobarometer poll were, as you know, shocking. a large percentage of people in the european union still believe that they can get infected with hiv/aids by kissing on the mouth, drinking from the same glass or by using the same toilet seat. it is embarrassing that after 25 years people still do not know more than that. or, even worse, that taking care of patients who are hiv-positive could actually infect the healthcare worker. i believe that we have to step up our efforts. it is now a problem for the general population, especially young people and women. a large number of young people became sexually active after the end of the campaigns of the 1980s. we saw a huge wave of campaigns by famous people – actors, heads of government and singers – who drew attention to this problem and helped focus on how to deal with it. unfortunately that has stopped. we thought we had the matter under control, but we did not. the new generations are growing up unaware. i am therefore very grateful to the german presidency, the health minister and the chancellor herself for refocusing on this disease and the simple ways in which we can protect ourselves. at the same time, it is extremely important to invest in research, and the commission is doing that. it is very important to invest in medicine – i will not repeat what has already been said – and to ensure access to affordable and effective arv medicines. these are important measures that we can take. for us it is a very high priority and, as i said, i am very happy that the council and the german presidency, and parliament too, look at it in the same way. we will resume and step up our campaigns to educate young people. we will again encourage the use of condoms. we will carry out research on preventative measures and medicine. this will be gender-related, because we realise that there are aspects that differ amongst men and women and we will adjust our research and our efforts to take account of this reality. i have noted the paragraph in the report and agree that, within the commission, we must make sure that we cooperate among ourselves, among the individual departments responsible for defined areas, whilst also dealing with the subject as a global problem. we know that it affects the neighbourhood countries but also developing countries, and we have a responsibility to work with them as well. i would like to commend the rapporteur and parliament on the report. it really touches on all the important issues. we will be working on those issues. in some cases, such as interdepartmental cooperation within the commission, we were already doing so. we will also take action by means of funding and through programmes. for example, in 2007 we will be working on developing best practices in addressing the risky sexual behaviour among young people and the prevention of hiv/aids in men who have sex with men and developing training programmes for healthcare personnel and ngos to improve the treatment and care of people living with hiv/aids. for us it is a very high priority. it is not just about a policy or a strategy. it is a question of moral obligation. i believe that the system as a whole has failed our citizens over the past 20 years and it is now time to resume our efforts and correct our mistakes.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his speech, which was full of feeling and commitment and also full of coincidences with the concerns and demands of parliament.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank all of you, members of the european parliament, and also the commission, for the discussion we have had here, because it shows very clearly that the fight against stigma, taboo and discrimination is an essential condition for us to do everything we can together to keep new infections as low as possible and, where people are infected, to guarantee them full access to treatment. i am glad that it has become clear here - and once again through the great conference in bremen - that hiv/aids must be a top priority. i am firmly convinced that only if the heads of state or government of the european union make this their own business will we be able to ensure that the necessary infrastructure is put in place everywhere, including in our neighbouring countries, so that cooperation with civil society and, above all, with the parties concerned can be fruitful and the points raised can also be implemented. the first thing we have to think about is prevention, information, how do we reach the young people? how do we reach the migrants? how do we reach those who are difficult to reach, such as women who are forced into prostitution? this can only be done in close cooperation between political leaders and those in civil society who take responsibility and work with us. when we talk about forced prostitution, it becomes clear that it is not just a health issue. governments must do everything they can to protect women. third, it is only by talking openly about the possibility of infection that prevention is possible. this can also provide an approach to pursuing drug policies in our countries which do not criminalise drugs. we must take action, including legal action, against drug dealers, but at the same time we must ensure that those who are sick because of their addiction have access to clean needles and low-threshold services. all of this is part of it. this is a difficult path, even in our neighbouring countries, where the member states and their governments are accused of being dealers and promoters of drug addiction themselves with such a policy. in many lands this is still a taboo subject. i was therefore very pleased that in bremen the ministers from the new eastern european member states were prepared to speak very openly about these points. in this open addressing of the problems, in this de-tabooing, i see a way forward, which we all hope for. in this respect, if we bring together best practices in the field of prevention, if we exchange them, if we invest together in research and development and if we make this our subject, then we have already taken a step forward. secondly, i am very much in favour of the european parliament, the member states and the commission coming together to recognise that a real fight against hiv/aids also includes the infrastructure for prevention, an infrastructure which makes health care possible and which also ensures that people who have access to treatment also have qualified contacts. thirdly, we must ensure that access to affordable medicines can be ensured in every member state by allowing 10% of the health budget to be spent on hiv vaccination or treatment. i am grateful that we have had this opportunity to discuss this and i am very happy that we will continue to work together in close cooperation on this issue for the people who live with us and to protect young people from hiv/aids.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all members and the minister for a very interesting debate. as you know, our motto this year for our hiv/aids campaign was ‘aids – remember me?’ unfortunately, we still have to remind people – including, i regret to say, decision-makers – about the existence of this disease. this must be done in several ways. first of all, concerning decision-makers, i repeat what the minister has already said: ‘spending on this effort is not a cost; it is an investment’. we have to remind our leaders and decision-makers of this. also, dealing with hiv/aids in neighbouring countries and in developing countries is not just our moral obligation towards our partner third countries, it is also a self-protection measure. we have to use all practical arguments to convince those who take the decisions. of course, i agree that prevention is the most important policy, as we do not have a cure at the moment. but this can be done more effectively through education and information. it has to be done in a very balanced way: on the one hand, we have to educate people, especially young people, that this is a dangerous illness. it is not like the flu: you cannot take antibiotics and it will go away. it could eventually kill you. we have to show the risks of the disease, but not in a way that marginalises, stigmatises or discriminates against those who are infected. stigmatisation also prevents dealing with the disease because people are afraid of the stigma. people do not get tested and remain unaware that they are infected. they end up infecting others and not seeking treatment themselves. it is a delicate balancing act, but it is our task and we have to do it. as has already been mentioned, it is unfortunate that young people today practise unsafe sex. as i said in my opening remarks, the simple use of condoms is something that we have to keep reminding young people about: it is an important way for them to protect themselves. abstinence is something that should be based on moral or religious beliefs, not as a measure against the disease, because we want people to know how to protect themselves if they decide to have sex. everyone is entitled to their moral beliefs. they can act based on those, but the education has to be there. they have to know how to protect themselves. as i said, we will also place particular emphasis on research and development measures, in particular protective measures for women, and especially measures that women can take that do not require the male partner’s agreement. therefore, i am very much in agreement with that paragraph in the report. civil society is a very important factor for us. we have to develop partnerships – not just the european institutions, but european citizens as well – so we plan to, and do, work very closely with civil society. we established an hiv/aids civil society forum in 2005 and we have made this a core aspect of our work in addressing hiv/aids in europe. indeed, the civil society forum has been and is meeting yesterday and today in luxembourg to discuss this important issue. it consists of ngos, women’s groups, groups for men who have sex with men, sex workers, prisoners, drug users. we have to include the whole of society in dealing with this issue. i agree with mr matsakis that we must work on dealing with the issue of drug addicts and the exchange of needles, because i agree that it is a health issue and not an issue for criminalisation. also, we have to mention the european centre for disease prevention and control, the instrument we created together and which should be a very effective mechanism in surveillance and in dealing with this important problem. therefore, i believe that this debate, and hopefully more to follow, will not only help in focusing the attention of all those who have to take the right decisions, but will also help european citizens to be informed about the continued existence of this problem. on behalf of the commission, i can assure you that this will remain at the top of our political agenda.
the debate is closed. i think it is appropriate to congratulate mr andrejevs once again on the excellent report he has produced and i certainly think that this debate has been one of the most rewarding we have followed in recent times, as we have seen a great deal of synchronisation between the council, the commission and parliament. the debate is a sign of commitment and i believe it gives hope for what the action of the european union as a whole, interinstitutional action, should be on a problem which is, in fact, at the top of the agenda of everyone's concerns. the vote will take place at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to table an oral amendment to delete two footnotes to paragraphs 37 and 108 of the report, which are on pages 16 and 25 of the english version. the reason is that both notes are redundant and do not contribute anything to the report. i would ask all the groups in the house to accept this oral amendment.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i sincerely believe that there is reason to be satisfied with the results achieved, the result of the collaboration and consensus that exist in this house on a matter as sensitive to public opinion as the safety of our seas. this is the feeling we must convey to the council, encouraging it to share this same attitude, because we must learn the lesson. we have to act now. we cannot expect the consensus that always follows disasters, the terrible images of our polluted beaches, the ships of our fishermen docked in ports faced with the impossibility of working, the families and regions living off the sea, broken by the pain of tragedy. the treatment we must give to these seven proposals is that of a whole, despite the complexities that may arise, because the intersections between the proposals exist; all the actors in the maritime transport chain are involved. it is therefore not a question of whether any of these proposals are unnecessary or untimely. each and every one of them is indispensable. however, there is one point which concerns me very much and which i would like to mention, because it concerns an essential aspect of the package. i am referring to the independence of the bodies and authorities which have been set up specifically to take the best decisions in the shortest possible time. in this connection, i am speaking specifically of the independent authority which is intended to be created to make permanent the ever so difficult decision to take a ship in danger to a place of refuge. i would like to express my disagreement with the attitude - which i consider to be voluntary - adopted by the committee on transport on this matter, which further weakens the already fragile decision-making structure for safe havens proposed by the european commission. ladies and gentlemen, it would be useless to create an authority that is independent of the influence of political power if it were not provided with the necessary resources and capacity to take decisions. but it is even more serious to give it powers if, at the moment of truth, it is left with only one option: to take the ship by force, even if it is uninsured and without guarantees. the whole burden therefore falls on the member state concerned, which is ultimately the victim of the ecological and social damage which may result from hosting a vessel in a place of refuge, in addition to having to deal with the coverage of such damage. let's be realistic and address the history that is so often repeated. in spain, in the last three months, we have had two cases of vessels in distress close to our coast, and in both cases the competent authority, on the basis of a detailed assessment of the emergency situation, decided, in order to minimise the risks, not to bring the vessel close to our coast. it is not necessary to say how relieved the civilian population in the area is to see the ships moving away, because it is one thing to see your beaches surrounded by luxury motorcycles and unprecedented perfumes, and quite another to see your beaches, your marine environment and wildlife impregnated with potpourri or your fellow citizens affected by toxic gases. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. that said, i appreciate mr. sterckx's tenacity in this difficult undertaking he's had to deal with. i congratulate him in particular on the progress made in the monitoring of vessels, which is essential to prevent dangerous situations. before i turn to my report, i would like to commend the work of mrs vlasto, mr kohlicic and, of course, the enormous work of mr costa. we hope that this proposal will be successful because now more than ever, after what happened in the last few days with the sinking of the cruise ship in greek waters, it is necessary to go further in protecting the rights of travellers. i shall now turn to my report. as you will recall, we have been working on the fourth revision of directive 94/57. this is the vital role played by so-called classification societies. from now on, recognized organizations. the evaluation carried out by the commission over the last six months has revealed that serious deficiencies remain in the process of inspection and safety certification of the global fleet. in view of this, it is our duty to reinforce the activities of these organizations, more and better. to this end, the european commission is proposing a series of reforms which i have endorsed and which have been strengthened as a result of the dialogue with the commission and the positive contributions of the parties concerned and the members of the transport committee. only in this way have we succeeded in strengthening the monitoring mechanisms of the recognised organisations by setting up an independent evaluation committee with permanent powers and autonomy of action. only in this way can we achieve a more flexible and equitable system of sanctions, which is ultimately more effective, since it sanctions those who do not act as they should, but it does so in accordance with the seriousness of the infringement committed and the economic capacity of the organisation. and only in this way have we been able to make progress on the thorny issue of the recognition of certificates of classification, by setting out the conditions under which recognised organisations will have to recognise each other, without jeopardising maritime safety and taking the most stringent rules as a reference. thank you very much.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, we are discussing, amongst other things, the fourth revision of the directive on ship inspection and survey organisations and the corresponding activities of maritime administrations on behalf of flag states. the previous review, which was the third, was part of the first legislative package which was intended to tackle and correct irresponsible behaviour in maritime transport which led to unfortunate accidents, such as that of the erika, which left our environment and our coasts so seriously affected. in this new proposal the european commission is seriously considering whether the classification and inspection system as a whole is making sufficient efforts to achieve the required quality levels. i, who was rapporteur for the third review, have to say that there is really not enough effort being made. but not only because of the maritime sector, but also because some member states - who are ultimately responsible - and some members of the european parliament did not want to do more. i remember how most of the amendments i put forward in my report, calling for greater standards and controls in inspections, were rejected. then i expressed my disappointment and my conviction that such a review would not serve to improve matters. unfortunately, that was the case and we had another sad chapter with the prestige accident, which again called into question the last of the inspections carried out on that ship and the irregular compliance with the recommendations contained in the same inspection. we are now again amending the directive on recognised organisations for carrying out inspections of ships and, although i do not like the fact that these organisations can be part of the committee responsible for evaluation, as this could affect their independence, i must admit that the changes agreed in the committee on transport and tourism improve it substantially and positively: for example, the prohibition on changing ship classes without the previous organisation passing on all the information on its inspections to the new classification organisation; or the supervision by the states of recognised organisations and the control by the executive commission on the effectiveness of their inspection rules and standards; or the mutual recognition of these rules between the different recognised organisations, taking as a reference the most demanding and rigorous models. i hope that all these amendments will be approved by the european parliament's plenary, because it will reduce the risks to our seas and the environment and we will all benefit from it. i regret that i cannot share all the points made by our colleague, mr de grandes pascual, who is not present in the chamber, but i do not share his opinion on the ports of refuge. i think the decision to take the prestige away from the galician coast was harmful and caused us to suffer worse consequences than if it had been directed to a port of refuge. i would therefore like to congratulate mr de grandes pascual on his report and the other members who have spoken and who have been responsible for this third legislative package.
ladies and gentlemen, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the prestige disaster in 2002 marked, like the erika disaster in 1999, a before and after in the adoption of community legislation on maritime safety, and this parliament can be proud of its role in this regard. the first paragraph of the third resolution on the prestige, which was adopted by this house in september 2003, called on the conference of presidents to give a favourable view to the request for the creation of a temporary committee to look into the causes and consequences of the disaster in greater depth, so that such a thing would never happen again. the temporary committee, which was a very difficult one to set up, was very positive for this house. it has enabled us to assume our responsibility for the political control of a european-wide disaster and to play a role in promoting a genuine european maritime transport policy, because the investigation and technical and professional analysis of accidents and incidents - which are not maritime events - are essential to prevent their recurrence. the erika and the prestige revealed a deterioration in maritime transport, both from the point of view of the company and the commercial sector and from the point of view of the ships themselves. we voted for the mare resolution on 21 april 2004. i recall one of the amendments i tabled on behalf of my group which called for a comprehensive and coherent european maritime policy which would enable us to bring transparency to the shipping industry, to eradicate flags of convenience and to improve the training and living and working conditions of crew. you, mr barrot, were responsible for drawing up the new proposals which we are finally debating today. it is curious, commissioner, that this package has no name. some people call it erika iii, but this parliament, commissioner, asked for it to be called prestige and that is what the resolution adopted says. perhaps it is a bit dubious as an honour, but it is part of the same logic that only when an accident occurs does the interest in introducing more stringent regulations come back. the truth is we have two erika packages and we don't have any prestige packages, so i want to continue to claim that wish that was not met from here. they were, however, and i have to congratulate you on that, other wishes. this package satisfies many: it addresses the issue of safe havens, the inspection regime for ships - which is an essential factor in maritime safety - extends this to ships in transit - which must provide documentation and guarantees to ensure that they will be able to respond in the event of damage or accidents - clarifies responsibilities, strengthens and harmonises the community regime for qualified bodies, such as classification societies, and of course improves the control regime. finally, commissioner, something i still miss: the number of vessels has been cut in half over the last 30 years. at present, as everyone knows, they are insufficient to carry out proper maintenance. i therefore call for proposals on improving the living, working and training conditions of seafarers, the dignification of the seafarer's profession and the training of seafarers' baggage, including safety training and the increase of social inspections on board ships. i would like to end by congratulating you and your team, and also the rapporteurs and the alternate rapporteurs on the work they have done.
member of the commission. madam president, i think the debate you have opened is more about restructuring than simply relocating, moving businesses. i want to say that serious research shows that relocation in the classical sense as we understand it represents approximately less than two percent of job changes per year in the european union. so it's a relatively small range in terms of overall labour mobility. on the other hand, within the european union, it's two percent, and that's tens of thousands of people. this is not a matter to be dismissed as trivial. the question you asked is a restructuring question. this is a changing world, and many businesses are restructuring. the commission's approach is active in this area, and the restructuring forum is also dealing with this issue, addressing the question of how best to accompany these restructurings socially and economically and looking for perspectives. i can tell you that some things that seem to be predetermined are not. because although there has been and still is indeed strong restructuring in the textile industry, yet within the textile industry many companies, especially in sweden but also in other parts of the world, have found their way into the textile sector. especially in the production of highly technical fabrics. similarly, there is no doubt that a considerable amount of space is opening up in the field of ecological production, ecological engineering, etc. but in any case, i can't give any precise suggestions or precise ideas right now. it can only be stated that on the one hand there are companies which are in decline and fields which are in decline, on the other hand there are areas which are in rapid development and even new areas such as the field of environmental technologies within these fields.
member of the commission. firstly, i should like to thank the honourable member for raising this question on this most interesting subject: we are all air travellers ourselves, so we very often come across these regulations. while studying the records of the european parliament, i noticed that there have been several oral questions on the topic of eu restrictions on the liquids which passengers may carry onto aircraft. the commission answered parliament in detail at its sitting of 12 february. as you will know, i am not the commissioner with primary expertise in this field and, therefore, i would humbly suggest that the answers already given by my more knowledgeable colleagues on this matter are sufficient. nevertheless, to summarise the answers to previous questions, it must be said that, in spite of the legislation being classified as eu-restricted as required by article 8(1) of framework regulation (ec) no 2320/2003, the rules on liquids are being applied by the member states in a proper and equal manner throughout the community. the responsibility for applying the rules lies with the member states and the commission monitors this via its regular inspections. if, however, the honourable member wishes to have additional information on this question, i would propose that he raises his questions during the debate on aviation security. coincidentally, this debate takes place tonight and my colleague mr barrot, the vice-president with responsibilities for transport, will be present.
mr president, the commissioner’s colleague is avoiding this question and will answer neither tonight nor at any other time. the commission to which you and the other commissioners belong approved a secret regulation which imposes restrictions on citizens and creates an arbitrary situation. when citizens go to the airport, they are like schoolchildren before an authoritarian master whom they need to obey. we are faced with the application of a secret regulation and have no chance to complain. the consequence is that there are different interpretations of the regulation throughout europe. what is forbidden in one airport is allowed in another. therefore, you did not get the result intended by the commission to which you and the other commissioners belong. you may trust your fellow commissioners of course but you are equally responsible.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would like to thank parliament for having emphasized - as all the speakers have done - the importance of this agreement, which creates a european civil aviation area. i would like to say to the rapporteur that, of course, environmental and social aspects are covered by the agreement which includes the rules of the european union. the signatory states have also committed themselves to implementing the acquis communautaire, and this applies in particular to the rights of passengers and, in particular, as you have pointed out, mrs lichtenberger, those of persons with reduced mobility. the partners of this common european airspace have also committed themselves to implementing all future european union legislation, for example social rights. the european airspace will therefore serve as a common framework for air transport and ensure equal treatment for all parties concerned in all circumstances. i would also like to point out that sesar will promote better airspace management, which will also be a major element. many of you also stressed that not only must the acquis communautaire be respected, but that assistance must also be provided and that this assistance must be proportionate to the needs of each member state, which are not all at the same level. in reply to mrs hennicot-schoepges, i will keep your assembly informed, as it has requested, of the regulatory developments in the member states. you are right, madam president, to have stressed the risk of delays in ratification, when it is precisely this area that we need to be able to bring to life quickly. so i'm paying close attention to what you've been saying. i think i have covered the whole of what has been said, mr president. i would add that the commission will carry out annual evaluation visits and will present a detailed report to the european parliament on the progress made by the european airspace partners. i would also like to point out to mrs ticău that the accession of bulgaria and romania was provided for in the agreement. both countries are now members of the european union and are therefore parties to the agreement, and no amendments are to be made. mr president, i shall not be very long. i am very grateful to parliament for its interest in this agreement, which is absolutely essential to unifying the european sky and, as mr martinez said, sometimes it may be necessary to start from the sky to achieve unity on earth.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank parliament for taking the initiative to adopt this resolution. the content of the resolution helps the commission's efforts. the adoption of this resolution by your plenary is further evidence of the clear and unwavering will of the european community to carry out the great european project that is galileo. what's the situation? in view of the deadlock in the contract negotiations with the consortium's candidate and the lack of progress on the conditions i had set a year ago, i have issued an ultimatum with precise deadlines to break the deadlock. on the basis of this ultimatum, supported by the council, i have been given a mandate by the council to work on all possible options. the commission's work on the basis of the mandate of the transport council of 22 march 2007, to which your resolution provides valuable support, is progressing satisfactorily. the outcome of this work will be the subject of a communication to parliament and the council, which the commission plans to adopt on 10 may 2007, one month before the next transport council in june 2007. the future communication will respond to all the requests made by the council of 22 march 2007 and by parliament in the resolution you are about to adopt. the communication will include an examination of the present situation, the difficulties facing the programme, in particular the reasons for the impasse in the negotiations on the concession contract, an analysis of the chances of a rapid conclusion of the concession contract and also alternative solutions to the scheme adopted so far. there will be no taboo on the causes of the present difficulties, on the possible timetables, on the financing or governance issues. as far as alternative solutions are concerned, several options are possible. they can range from keeping the project in its current state to, of course, closing it down, which i am not considering, of course. an intermediate solution could be to have the public sector take over the deployment of all or part of the satellite infrastructure, with subsequent operation by a private partner. it's one of the alternatives. but each of these alternatives will be examined in detail in terms of their technical and financial implications, as well as in terms of governance. the commission's concern remains to ensure the best cost-benefit ratio of the project while avoiding further delays. avoiding further delays is crucial in view of the risks posed by the emergence of the modernisation of competing systems. of course, if the present pattern is maintained and the concession contract negotiations resume in a very active manner in the coming weeks, i will inform parliament of the progress made. i would now like to talk about the egnos programme, which is improving gps for european users. the european space agency will complete the operational readiness review of this system by march 2008. egnos will then be ready for full operation and an economic operator capable of exploiting egnos applications will have to be found by march 2008. the european institutions will also be able to finance the system from that date. i insist a little because egnos will already enable us to evaluate a number of applications of satellite navigation and this is therefore very interesting, because it is a first step which will shed light on the future of galileo. as regards the financing of european satellite radio navigation programmes, you know that the commission proposed a regulation of the european parliament and of the council as early as july 2004. this proposal provided for a specific legal instrument for the galileo programme, consistent with the future european space programme and responding to the need for sound financial management in the 2007-13 financial framework. the proposal provides for a financial contribution from the european community of eur 1 billion. the council reached a partial general approach to this proposal on 21 april 2005. parliament also adopted a positive opinion at first reading on 5 september 2005. the final figure will depend on the options chosen and will of course be submitted to the budgetary authority in due course. as regards the governance of the galileo programme, the commission is currently considering ways of ensuring more effective coordination between the various actors in the programme: the commission itself, the monitoring authority and the european space agency. a word now on external relations. international agreements concerning the galileo programme are negotiated on the basis of article 300 of the treaty. the procedure provided for in this article shall always include consultation of parliament prior to their conclusion. i have, of course, noted parliament's concern to be very involved in monitoring governance. as regards the galileo applications and the green paper on these applications, the public debate phase is about to end. more than 70 contributions were received from a wide range of stakeholders. the commission must now analyse the results before defining the action plan to be implemented from 2008. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, galileo is the most ambitious industrial project that europe has ever undertaken. of course, i do not hesitate to ask parliament for its support tonight, given the difficulty of the undertaking, but also our determination to make it a success. it is true that the coming month will be an extremely busy one for the commission and the relevant departments, to find the best solutions which will enable us to overcome the present situation and to move the programme forward in good time. that is what i could say to parliament tonight. of course, as the current studies progress, i will make it a point to inform parliament and i thank it in advance, mr president, for its willingness to provide us with the necessary support in the proposed resolution, which will be voted on tomorrow, to convince the member states that a project like this is too important for the future of europe not to be pursued with determination.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the european union is making a major effort in its financial perspective to launch this galileo programme. we now have an obligation to ensure that the union's money is spent and managed well. if the private partners in the programme are not meeting their obligations, they should be replaced immediately. we hope that the galileo system will be operational as soon as possible and will become a key piece to help transport and to better observe our environmental problems, such as climate change. we would like the galileo project to be compatible and interoperable with conventional navigation systems such as gsm and other systems. it is important that they are thus connectable and complementary. together with the american gps and the russian glonass, they must contribute to improving our navigation system. at the same time we must keep our eye on the programme so that galileo applications respect the highest ethical and human rights standards. but we wonder now whether galileo is merely an illusion or whether it will be a reality. i wonder whether the european commission's management capacity is up to the circumstances and challenges of galileo. the prestige of the european union is at stake.
mr president, i think it is important that we get this debate on transatlantic relations out of its ideological quagmire. i do not know whether, as the joint resolution says, the resignation of the president of the world bank must take place or not, but what i do think is important is that the european union should start to develop its strategic considerations and become an adult on the international scene. i know that commissioner ferrero devotes all her efforts - and there are many of them - to this matter. i think that this should not make us forget that the transatlantic link is not written in the genetic code of the european union and also that the united states has been - perhaps because of our own incapacities - the guarantor of security in europe and that, today, in matters of security, there is no alternative to the transatlantic link. mr president, i believe that if we want the european union to become the european power, this cannot be done against the united states, but with the united states as two partners who respect each other, who share a set of values and who have the same worldview. of course, this does not mean that we have to sign a blank cheque, and the european union has to assert its principles on the issue of the death penalty, on the issue of the international criminal court, on the issue of the kyoto protocol or on the issue of laws with extraterritorial effect. this also means that the united states must learn to respect the european union, which is today a factor of stability in the world and which must play a fundamental role by exerting its influence in many regions. in this house, mr president, commissioner patten has said on another occasion that if the european union is to achieve its objectives and its aims - not least of which is the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in all regions of the world - the united states must cooperate, just as the united states' objectives can only be achieved if they cooperate with the european union. if the european union and the united states work together, prosperity, stability and security, mr president, will be better off in the world, and i believe that these are the objectives to which this transatlantic summit should contribute and for which we should cooperate.
mr president, for the sake of order in the voting, i would ask you, when you announce that the roll-call vote is open, to leave a little more room until you close it, because some of our colleagues have difficulty keeping up with your high speed. (applause) so between the opening and closing of the vote, please leave a few more seconds of margin. thank you very much!
mr president, i would like to clarify that the scope of this directive should be restricted to piracy and counterfeit practices. as it is to apply in different member states with different legal systems, where this amendment mentions ‘intellectual property’, we propose ‘copyright and related rights’. ‘intellectual property’ means not just copyright, but copyright and related rights. this is an oral amendment.
i shall explain briefly the reason for the oral amendment. the committee on transport adopted my amendment no 46 and mr sterckx's amendment no 50. subsequently, the services have found that there is a certain incompatibility between the two, with regard to certain dates. we agreed that the best solution was an oral amendment to amendment no 46 which i am proposing to the house and which consists of a mere addition, namely: and, in any case, not later than 1 july 2008. that would not change the meaning of either amendment and would provide a legal solution to this conflict.
mr president, i simply want to say that my group would agree with two of the references you have made: the replacement of the words 'welcomes' with 'take note of' and the deletion of the word 'political'. but in order to be able to give our agreement to this proposal, we would like to use a positive turn and say: 'please, however, in order to give greater democratic legitimacy to this dialogue, ask for the european parliament to be involved.'
in writing. in the resolution on transatlantic relations i voted against because i am convinced that these relations must be based on common values which the united states has repeatedly shown not to respect, as is shown by the failure of president bush's militarist foreign policy, an example of which is the plans to place missiles in some countries of the union. the us administration is responsible for serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in afghanistan, iraq, guantanamo and for illegal detentions and renditions in the case of cia flights. the eu and the us should make it a condition of their relations that international law be respected without any breach. in the case of iraq, it must advocate the withdrawal of troops and respect for natural resources. the eu should require the us to ratify various international treaties such as the nuclear test ban treaty, the ottawa convention on anti-personnel mines and the kyoto protocol. the eu must also denounce the illegality of the helms-burton act and the trade embargo that the united states maintains against cuba.
the quality of the coveney report has been clearly confirmed by the very broad support it has received in the vote in the committee on foreign affairs. mr coveney has been able to reconcile the views of the various groups and, in our view, has been very successful in continuing the new logic of these reports, which was initiated by our colleague richard howitt in the report for 2005. the result of the vote on the amendments reflects a reasonable consensus between the groups' positions and a relative absence of points of conflict, which helps to give the world an image of parliament's unity in the protection and promotion of human rights, something we all want. in order to achieve a growing authority, in order for this text to be an expected text, a reference text, sobriety, accuracy and the greatest possible consensus are needed. i think that this coveney report has been a clear step forward in this direction. we must try to send an important message: europe cannot afford to measure human rights in the world on a different scale for each country: whatever the interests at stake, the union's doctrine on human rights must be unequivocal and unwavering. i must say that we do not think the text reflects sufficiently the fact that in today's world, in the fight against terrorism, we are unfortunately witnessing the proliferation of detention centres which are not subject to the rule of law, whose practices are not subject to the legislation of the state itself which establishes them: i am talking about guantanamo and i am talking about secret prisons. the socialists have an undeniable objective to put an end to these situations of illegality in the world. in line with our priorities, we also support the motion for a resolution on the universal moratorium on the death penalty. it is good news that this week the council has expressed its intention to promote and sustain the effort which we are asking all the groups in this house to do.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you very much for the engaging debate which has taken place on the basis of the rapporteur's report. no one - not even the presidency - said in the debate that we can be satisfied with the human rights situation in the world. on the contrary, i am. we see human rights trampled on every day! the argument - i think mr allister said this - that the european union should look the other way is one i cannot let stand. even if we cannot be satisfied with the situation, even if we suffer setbacks, the union has in the past undertaken a great deal of activity to change the situation and to improve it for the people. i can mention, for example, that when the foreign ministers' council discussed the central asia strategy on monday, not only - as is sometimes criticised - did the interest in energy and resources play a role, but we also explicitly stated that we wanted to have an intensive human rights dialogue with the countries of central asia. we are also pursuing the same course with china, even though we may not always see the progress we need to make. last tuesday in luxembourg a meeting between the eu and ecowas, the countries of the west african economic community, was held, which once again highlighted the importance of the human rights process in these countries. or let me return to the african union-european union summit on migration last year in tripoli, where they talked about how to tackle the causes of migration. you can't fight them alone! it's important that we have protective measures. but good governance, creating prospects for people and safeguarding freedom and fundamental freedoms are essential elements that ultimately lead people to stay in their countries. i believe that the european union has also contributed to the respect of human rights through many actions in the field of the esdp. another point, and this is addressed to mr pannella: there is no conspiracy of the presidency. the council, which on monday reviewed the moratorium on the death penalty, must also state clearly that we are in favour of such a moratorium. there are no delaying mechanisms either, but it can be clearly stated that the german presidency, supported by all the member states, will step up its efforts and its commitment to the common objective so that we can present a final report in may to achieve the ultimate objective. it would be a pity, however, if we were to rush into action at the united nations and fail to achieve the common objective because the necessary majorities are not available. i would like to thank the european parliament once again for the lively debate. you have made it clear in many of your speeches that you are determined to ensure that the presidency, the member states, the governments and the parliaments do not let this issue fall to the background but keep it at the top of the agenda.
member of the commission. mr president, i warmly welcome the adoption of this report and will pass on the valuable suggestions you have made during the debate and in the report to commissioner ferrero-waldner. i would like to emphasise that the commission fully shares the european parliament’s support for the eu guidelines on human rights, which are potentially one of the most effective instruments the eu has in this field. within this framework i am happy to announce that the european union guidelines on human rights will be the main focus of this year’s internal training programme on human rights for commission staff, and we will also instruct our delegations accordingly. the commission has reservations regarding the suggestion the report makes to identify, in the context of the annual report, a list of countries of particular concern with respect to human rights violations. we should avoid listings in this area as it would be difficult to establish the criteria based on such general grounds. this is different from listing, for example, countries allowing the recruitment of child soldiers, where there are very clear indicators. the commission would prefer to support the practice of identifying countries to be targeted by demarches and actions on a case-by-case basis. let me now briefly touch upon some of the issues raised during this debate. concerning guantánamo, the european union has underlined repeatedly that the fight against terrorism must be conducted in accordance with international humanitarian law and international human rights law. the commission believes that the geneva conventions apply to all persons captured on the field of battle. the commission also takes the view that the provisions of the international covenant on civil and political rights and the un convention against torture apply to guantánamo bay. every person detained must enjoy a status under international law and is entitled not to be detained arbitrarily and to receive due process and a fair trial. guantánamo is an anomaly and the european union continues to call for its closure. concerning belarus, the commission will continue to work to counter human rights abuses in belarus. although the authoritarian nature of the current government makes it impossible for the european union to offer belarus full participation in the european neighbourhood policy, the commission believes that the launch of the shadow enp action plan for belarus has been very useful in raising awareness amongst belarusian citizens of the benefits which the european neighbourhood policy would offer if the authorities were to demonstrate respect for democratic values and human rights. the commission is already funding a wide range of projects to support civil society, such as projects to promote freedom of the media in belarus and to support the european humanities university in exile. the commission will naturally seek to support similar initiatives in the future. the european union continues to hold human rights consultations with russia twice each year. those consultations give the european union the opportunity to raise a wide variety of concerns, such as the situation in chechnya, the treatment of human rights defenders and the impact of the revised ngo and anti-extremist laws. moreover, the european union does not raise human rights issues only at the consultations, but also at other meetings as appropriate. concerning china, the commission welcomes parliament’s constructive comments on the eu-china human rights dialogue. the commission also recognises that there is a need to strengthen and improve the eu-china human rights dialogue and has said as much in the clearest of terms in its recent communication, ‘eu-china: closer partners, growing responsibilities’. some of the hard-won successes over the last 10 years should not go unnoticed. the visit of the special rapporteur on torture in december 2005 had been a regular request of the eu for over five years. his arrival in beijing was therefore a considerable achievement. the review of death penalty cases by the supreme court, as mentioned in parliament’s report, has been a key delivery of the dialogue. in relation to forced labour, the commission, like parliament, is concerned at the high incidence of laogai camps and the export of goods produced within them. concerning the human rights council, as i had the opportunity to state earlier, and notwithstanding initial scepticism, this remains the most important human rights forum and has shown positive signs, such as in the case of darfur. the commission is committed to working with the other eu institutions and like-minded partners to break the hrc’s politicisation, and to working with partner countries. concerning the fundamental rights agency, it was clear from the debate in the council during the adoption of the regulation creating the agency that the weight of opinion is clearly against extending the mandate of that agency to cover third countries. nevertheless, the regulation provides that, after the agency has been in operation for three years, an evaluation of its performance will be undertaken. that evaluation would cover the question of whether the scope or tasks of the agency should be extended.
the debate is closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) tabled in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. in fact, having been informed that mr coveney is leaving our assembly, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate him not only on this magnificent report which has been so recognized by all the speakers but also on the work he has been doing and to wish him much happiness and success in his new responsibilities and occupations. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
we move on to the next item on the agenda. the council and the commission have made statements on ukraine.
i think mr cashman has very well defined the sentiment shared by the majority of this house and therefore i think he is obliged to reiterate once again that certain attitudes must be raised. it's not a free speech issue. the problem is that certain statements hostile to sexual freedom come from governmental institutions, from states and governments that are part of the european union, which have signed treaties, such as the treaty on european union, in which article 6 clearly defines freedom of choice, including sexual choice. we must not confuse propaganda with the right to be free to be whatever one wants at any time, in any circumstances and in any member state of the european union. i therefore believe that these statements, which, as mr cashman also very well said, are not isolated, are part of a trend, part of a calculated strategy to call into question the fundamental values of the european union. they can't get away with this. this house had to react - i think it is doing so - although, unfortunately, i am afraid this is not the first time, but we will always insist again and, although it is hard to repeat the obvious, we must insist on them because - as mr cashman also said - we are right and we are going to get it.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to use this debate to return to a speech which the president-in-office of the council made here in this house, namely on the europe of values and tolerance. this is a very important point, and it applies to many areas. we have had a great deal of discussion today on various other subjects, in which we have turned our attention to problems outside the european union. if we do this - and rightly so - it is perfectly legitimate to consider what we have not yet put right in our own house, namely intolerance of same-sex orientation. i therefore ask that, even if some people disagree with this, at least tolerance be shown for the fact that there must be a debate and that it is also important that the commission has instruments on the basis of which it can respond appropriately to this discrimination. i can only expressly say once again on behalf of the presidency that we have this obligation, that it is not just the commission or the parliaments, but that we must also actively raise awareness in our society of this issue so that this discrimination does not happen again. i hope that today's debate has made at least a small contribution to this!
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, human rights are indivisible and i believe that this is the fundamental value on which the whole european construction is based. since the discussion was very deep and very emotional, let me quote exactly what the polish deputy minister said. the bill, according to the polish deputy minister, will punish anyone who promotes homosexuality or other deviations. i think that this detail is a sufficiently clear signal to suggest that if such a law is introduced, it will stigmatise a certain category of people because of their sexual orientation and is therefore unacceptable from the point of view of european law. ladies and gentlemen, the commission will use all the means at its disposal to defend the rights of all citizens in all countries, and i think it was very rightly said here that homophobia is not just a phenomenon that occurs in one member state, but is a more universal phenomenon. it is true, however, that today we are dealing with a statement made by a member of the government of a certain country.
the president of the council. i would like to thank mr ortega. i can answer your question as follows: the european council, in its conclusions of december 2006, stated that: the capacity of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders - the european border guard agency frontex - is being rapidly expanded. this will include ensuring adequate financial and human resources and their efficient use, establishing procedures for emergencies, improving operational resources, strengthening links with the network of immigration liaison officers and completing the planned review of the agency and its tasks in 2007. the agency's budget for 2007 has been increased substantially and now totals eur 22.2 million. the number of employees is also constantly increasing, reaching a total of 87 in 2007. as regards the establishment of emergency procedures, the council recently concluded its discussions with the european parliament on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a mechanism for the establishment of rapid reaction teams for border security purposes and amending the council regulation on this mechanism. the european parliament will vote on the regulation at the end of april. the justice and home affairs council will finally consider this regulation in june. in addition to the deployment of staff, frontex is currently in the process of setting up a central register of the existing technical equipment of the member states for the control and surveillance of the external borders, the so-called tool box, which the member states are prepared to make available on a voluntary basis and upon request of another member state. on 15 february 2007, the council reviewed progress in setting up the toolbox and invited the member states to contribute actively. a further review took place at the council meeting on 19 and 20 april. by the council conclusions of 14 and 15 december 2006, frontex was mandated to establish a permanent coastal patrol network along the southern maritime external borders of the european union by mid-2007, in cooperation with the member states of the region. the establishment of this network is an important step towards joint action, particularly in coordination with the member states of the region, against illegal immigration at the southern maritime external borders. the network is an effective tool to cope with the expected increase in migratory pressure in the region in the coming weeks and months. the launch of the coastal patrol network is scheduled for 24 may 2007. finally, in line with the hague programme adopted by the european council on 4 november 2004, the commission intends to present to the council before the end of 2007 an assessment report on the agency, and in the context of this assessment, the possibility of conferring additional tasks or powers on frontex could be considered.
mr president-in-office of the council, i express my appreciation for the work of the council in this area and i think you have explained it quite clearly. the only concern we have, however, is that it seems that the operations that have been set up - namely era 1, era 2 and era 3 - are interrupted at a certain point with regard to the protection of the atlantic sea border and the feeling is created in the population that, being temporary, the protection is only temporary and does not exist permanently. does the presidency believe that these measures will ensure permanent control of this border, which is currently a sensitive border for the whole of the european union?
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i will not use the three minutes i have because this is a very well-crafted report, with a method of work worthy of praise, and therefore my first words are to congratulate mr deprez. secondly, i am also pleased with the great agreement reached between the council, the commission and the european parliament. finally, i would like to make a few observations. i affirm and maintain - as i did in my party's bureau last week in granada - that the competence for the surveillance of the external borders is a competence which resides in the member states and in the member states alone. so, what is frontex? frontex and rabit are essentially coordination, cooperation and collaboration. and rabits are a further instrument of cooperation and collaboration to prevent the permeability of the union's external borders from adding to the permeability of the internal borders and creating, in both cases, a scenario of humanitarian desolation. we should remember that, because of the practice of crossing the atlantic using the criminal instruments of the mafias, the european union has just put the number of deaths already recorded on this inhuman journey at 10 000. the rabits which have achieved such a consensus and agreement are another instrument of collaboration and cooperation. this compulsory solidarity is not, mr president, a semantic contradiction. it is a necessary reality which we have set out today in the agreement which i hope will be supported by a large majority in this parliament tomorrow. the financial instrument to which mr deprez referred is much more than a declaration of intent to deal with critical situations and a massive invasion of a part of our territory, an immediate response of solidarity and budgetary availability. mr president, i conclude as i began, by congratulating myself on the achievement of such a solidary and useful instrument for the control of the union's borders.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i will use the rapporteur's native language to congratulate and thank him for his meticulous work and the result: the excellent report we are going to adopt tomorrow. mr deprez, without falling into the realm of easy wordplay, i believe that you have managed to create, with the fictitious rapporteurs, a real rapid reaction team within the libe committee, which has enabled us to act quickly in order to pass a text on first reading which was the subject of a very broad consensus during the vote in committee. we were also able to put our proposals to the council thanks to the constructive dialogue we had with the german presidency, which included this regulation among its priorities and was very receptive to our proposals. ladies and gentlemen, we have jointly improved the text, which once again demonstrates the maturity of this house when it comes to legislating in such a delicate area as the fight against illegal immigration. it is therefore necessary to extend the scope of codecision to all aspects of immigration policy. we welcome the fact that the council of justice and home affairs (jai) approved the regulation last thursday in luxembourg and the commitment made by the three institutions to ensure adequate financing of operations. we hope that the equipment will be operational this summer, or even sooner, as requested by the vice-president of the commission, mr frattini. ladies, i think we're on the right track. slowly, but by the way. we have taken a further step towards a common immigration policy. our respective governments have understood that immigration is a common european challenge to which we must give a global and joint response based on solidarity, mutual trust and shared responsibility. in this respect, the mandatory principle of solidarity of the member states, as set out in article 3 of the regulation, is of the utmost importance. this instrument is not a panacea, but it represents a step forward in the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in persons. these teams will help to increase solidarity and mutual assistance in order to be able to guard europe's external borders, save lives - especially in atlantic and mediterranean waters - and treat immigrants who are trying to enter the union's territory illegally with dignity. our citizens want the european union to respond to their concerns. the rabit is a concrete response. now, our citizens and immigrants deserve that we treat the issue of illegal immigration seriously. i would therefore ask the group of the european people's party to make a coherence statement. we cannot be in granada criticising the regularization carried out by the spanish government while in luxembourg the governments led by his political family announce imminent regularizations, which, of course, we socialists fully understand and respect. dear friends of the epp-ed, do not let yourselves be carried away by the popular party, which is unloading ammunition against the spanish government with a powder keg.
for the greens/efa group. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr deprez, on his work. i think it's very rigorous, very interesting and very well done work on a really difficult subject. i think we can talk about a multi-step agreement. we can talk in the long term, in the medium term or in the short term. i think that this is a good report and a good solution for the problems we in the european union are facing and have had to face before. the rapid border intervention teams, under common rules, will be a good instrument for providing the necessary measures to deal with people entering the european union illegally. on the other hand, i think that europe needs a common policy on immigration. as a member of the european free alliance, i do not agree that the member states should be the owners of the borders. i believe that in future the borders of the european union should be a common issue. we must work together on this issue and consider a common policy on migration, always in accordance with the main european values and the principles of the european union. the european union has to be more consistent in order to provide the best measures in these cases. we also need to help the development of the acp countries and, in particular, our neighbours in the southern mediterranean. finding a solution in this part of the world is a guarantee for a solution to our current problem. solving problems in the countries from which people are migrating to the european union is the main basis for avoiding this sometimes tragic situation. it is not only the member states but the whole european union that should be aware of immigration policy, including regions with constitutional powers, for example the canary islands. the government of the canary islands should have had something to say in the recent crisis in this part of the world. i would like to point out that today is the 300th anniversary of the battle of almansa, when the country of valencia was defeated and the end of the catalan nation began. i think the regions, the stateless nations and all the political bodies in the european union have something to say on issues of this kind. as i said, i think that the report is complete, very good and very interesting. we have some fears, perhaps from a sense of responsibility, including one that the teams' actions might prevent people from seeking protection, thereby denying them the right to asylum under international conventions. we saw it when we were talking to migrants who had illegally entered the canary islands. it's not easy for these people to ask for asylum when they really want to, because information does not flow appropriately and because of other circumstances. the greens/efa group's position is that the rapid border intervention teams form part of the toolbox developed under the frontex regulation and are to be used in particular to meet more urgent support requirements at external borders. so it could be argued that the pros and cons are closely linked to the group's position on the operations of frontex. we see the regulation as an instrument for immediate action in this sense.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission warmly welcomes mr lauk’s report and is grateful for the high-quality work of parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs. with a strong economic recovery currently under way in europe and in the euro area, member states have an outstanding opportunity to improve their public finances and to prepare for future challenges, such as the ageing population. in this context, mr lauk’s report is a very timely one. the commission clearly agrees with the report’s statement that the revised stability and growth pact is so far working as it should. in particular, many member states have made considerable efforts to meet their obligations under the pact. since the reform of the pact, both the corrective and preventative arms have been fully applied in accordance with the reform’s provisions. in addition, it is clear that there has been no leniency in the enforcement of the reformed pact. last year, a significant improvement in the general government deficit in the euro area, and in the individual member states, was accomplished. for the euro area, the improvement was 0.9%, in nominal terms, and hence also appears likely to be higher in structural terms than the 0.3% expected by the commission last autumn. the overall economic prospects for 2007 are equally encouraging. the ongoing presence of cyclically favourable conditions in the euro area calls for further fiscal consolidation efforts in 2007 and beyond. adjustment towards the medium-term budgetary objectives should be stepped up and pro-cyclical budgetary policies ought to be avoided. euro-area finance ministers confirmed last week their commitment to make full use of current economic growth and better-than-expected tax revenues to pursue sound fiscal policies, as well as to use unexpected extra revenues for deficit and debt reduction. the commission also shares parliament’s concerns regarding the long-term sustainability of public finances and is putting increased emphasis on its assessment. in this respect, a new report on the long-term sustainability of public finances in the european union was issued by the commission in october 2006. that report is based on eu common ageing-related expenditure projections. it confirms the importance of addressing the sustainability challenge with a combination of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. the commission has continued its work on incorporating sustainability considerations in setting the medium-term budgetary objectives. indeed, the improvement of fiscal balances in the medium term contributes to meeting the long-term sustainability implications. another key development is the emphasis on improving the quality of public spending, in line with the lisbon strategy. that policy guideline is indeed part of the integrated guidelines adopted by the european council in march this year. the commission is also grateful for the report’s recognition of the efforts made to improve statistical governance. the commission recently reported to parliament and to the council on the quality of the data submitted by member states. finally, while the corrective arm of the stability and growth pact has delivered the expected results, the picture is more mixed regarding the preventative arm. national fiscal rules and institutions can play an important role in this respect. progress was made last year in this field, and the commission is currently working on further improving the effectiveness of the pact’s preventative arm. in this context, i fully appreciate parliament’s support for this approach.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i will go into the details of the commission's proposal. i agree with mr schwab in expressing my concern about the state debt. last year was a year in which we grew much more than in previous years, we approached our growth potential and yet public debt remains below the limits we set ourselves in the maastricht treaty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council and parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not disrupted, and that the social security system is not disrupted. neither mr schwab - who is a christian democrat like myself - nor i believe that the viability of the social protection system can be discussed or even questioned. it is a question of finding those foundations which will strengthen it, which will make it possible to fulfil our social obligations. there are some recommendations in mr lauk's report which i would like to underline, adding some of my own. i agree that we should establish comparable bases in the budgets to make comparisons homogeneous, but i would like us to export from the accounting technique in private enterprise a kind of forecast in the budgets, an accounting forecast to take account of obligations that we know. it seems to me that it is obvious that we must take advantage of the good times to reduce public debt further and we are not doing it or we are not doing it enough. thirdly, i think we need to rethink our whole system of public expenditure and revenue so that our economies are more productive, so that we have more resources, among other things, to deal with social security expenditure. i think we should change the idea of retirement as an age which is an obligation to make it more of a right which opens up the possibility of retiring and to guide public finances, since we are talking about public finances, to encourage people to stay longer in work. finally, i think we should consider replacing social contributions as the fundamental, almost sole, nucleus of social protection systems by a system of taxation, mainly value added tax, which mr sarkozy has brilliantly termed 'social vat' in the debate taking place in that country. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who is absent today, the person who represented him and the commissioner for having taken up a good deal of what we have to say.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his kind words, although we would like more concrete timetable and measures to increase transparency and good governance in companies. the participation of workers is a condition for maintaining the competitiveness and quality of european industry in flagship projects such as airbus and in other less flagship projects, but essential to making europe the competitive economy we want. delphi is a lacerating wound in my country, in this case. but it is not good to blame the problems we face exclusively on globalisation, because if we look at it, we see that both airbus and boeing have orders in their portfolios, so that more workers are needed, not less, both here in europe and elsewhere. i would ask the commission, in addition to the worker participation we are demanding, to propose new measures to make the activities and decisions of the executives who, with armored contracts and exorbitant compensation, consent to opacity, negligence and criminal errors for which the european community does not have, at present, a sufficient instrument, transparent. does the commission intend to develop binding instruments to limit this irresponsible power within the framework of the so-called social responsibility of companies and their codes of conduct, which are not yet binding? could measures be introduced to oblige executives to manage in a more transparent way, first to workers and then to society? if we are talking about good european corporate governance, we cannot continue to be subject to these circumstances.
mr president, mr commissioner, it is true that 13 years ago, when we read the texts, we were reminded that in our primary legislation we had to include social dialogue as a hallmark of the european social model. that is why the directive was made. it was already mentioned 13 years ago that the internal market has a transnational dimension and that this could lead to problems among the workers themselves in companies with a transnational scope, since they should take decisions by consulting all without harming some or harming all. in short, we know much more clearly today, from what we saw in delphi, in renault, in airbus, that we need to improve these mechanisms we have. europe is facing a lack of legitimacy in the eyes of the workers, because they see, commissioner, two very dangerous things happening at the same time. first of all, they see that we have no instruments and, at the same time, that we do have a discourse from europe in which we remind them that we are with them, that we are not going to leave them alone in the face of globalisation and restructuring. the revision of the directive, although not a sufficient condition, is therefore a necessary condition, because it is an instrument which is proving to be neither used nor useful in addressing the very serious problems which are being seen on the ground and which are leading a very large part of the european population to turn against each other and everyone against brussels. commissioner, it is urgent, we must move forward, and you will have our full support if you are faced with such a difficult and risky situation.
yes, we will proceed like that, mr corbett. any recommendation you make concerning the rules should be listened to very carefully! therefore, we will proceed as you say.
the next item is the commission statement on relations between the european union and switzerland.
member of the commission. mr president, allow me just a few words. firstly, i wish to insist that the commission considers relations between the eu and switzerland to be very good. commissioner ferrero-waldner had the opportunity to meet the president of the helvetic confederation on 3 april. they discussed these very good relations, which do not exclude some legal problems, which can be likened to those which exist among the eu member states. every time the commission considers that the treaties or community legal provisions are not fully respected, as guardian of the treaties, it is obliged to react. this has been the case with the issue under discussion: the tax decisions adopted in some cantons of the helvetic confederation. it is not about tax competition. it is about the enforcement of the rules that were adopted in our agreement with switzerland of 1972. it is not about tax competition but state aid. the commission very often opens this kind of procedure on the grounds of failure to enforce state aid rules in the member states, and it is a very important issue. i do not know whether you are aware that over 20 000 letter-box companies have been established in switzerland with the sole purpose of avoiding taxation in the european union member states. we have been discussing this issue with the swiss authorities since 2005. we have not found a solution other than to open this procedure. we are asking the council for a mandate to negotiate with the swiss authorities to reach a solution to this conflict. i hope that, in the coming weeks, the council will give us this mandate with the backing of a very large majority of the member states. i hope that during the negotiations, these issues, which constitute sizeable problems for thousands of european companies, will be resolved.
this closes this spot.
the next item is the report by mrs esther herranz garcía, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the situation of women with disabilities in the european union (a6-0075/2007).
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the services of parliament for their cooperation and great professionalism throughout the process of preparing this report, which has been extraordinarily long until the vote. i would also like to thank the committee on women's rights and gender equality for authorizing the drafting of this report, and also the plenary of parliament and the conference of presidents for authorizing it. i am very pleased to be making this report on the situation of women who are disabled or who share their daily work with other disabled people, because it is important for all of them and for all of us as a society. this is the result of many contributions made over this time not only by my colleagues on the committee on women's rights and gender equality but also by the disabled organisations and the european commission itself in the meeting with commissioner špidla. this report was adopted almost unanimously in the committee on women's rights and gender equality with only one abstention and it makes clear that it is a balanced report, which seeks to highlight not only the situation of women with disabilities but also the very important role played by women who are responsible and dedicated to the care and support of people suffering from any type of disability, as well as the work of the associations involved in this. the report - which we shall be voting on in this house shortly - contains an important appeal: the need for the european commission and the member states to try to introduce and implement flexible measures and a system of aid commensurate with the heterogeneity of this group, so that they can be applied and adapted to each case, since this is a group where stereotypes do not fit and where women generally suffer from double discrimination. on the one hand, being a woman - which is already a handicap in many european regions, unfortunately - and on the other hand, being disabled. the right resources and policies, innovative services, are needed to ensure that people live as independently and autonomously as possible. i would also like to stress the importance of the development of information and communication technologies, which are a fundamental tool in the integration of disabled people into society. it is important to raise public awareness from childhood, since they are children, since it is they, the children, who hold the key to the future in their hands. the debate and reflection must continue to be encouraged so that, day by day, equal opportunities become a reality for all people, regardless of their gender, social, economic or political status. finally, i would like to highlight the role of families - especially women, who are often the ones who are responsible for the care of disabled people in most cases - and the essential role played by disabled people's associations on a day-to-day basis. i think it is essential that the work of families and organizations be supported and recognized, both from the economic and social point of view, since in many cases it is a full-time activity that causes isolation. so, although this is a subsidiary issue, i think that we in the institutions of the european union should think about working together on this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
author. madam president, on the eve of important elections such as the local and legislative elections in the philippines it is pertinent and timely to echo some of the country's major problems, most notably the worrying escalation of extrajudicial crimes and murders which are now over 800 since president arroyo took power in the archipelago in 2001, the vast majority of which still go unpunished. the current situation shows a clear pattern of political murders in the philippines, and it is necessary to call on the manila government to take appropriate measures to stop the threats and harassment of opposition members, journalists, farmers claiming their rights in the framework of the ongoing land reform, human rights defenders and even witnesses in trials against their victims. several human rights organizations such as the food first information and action network (fian) have been warning for some time, for example, about the non-implementation of national agrarian reform programs, which means that many landowners refuse to hand over land to farmers. the climate of violence linked to this situation has already left a balance of at least 38 peasant leaders killed. it is to be welcomed that the president has committed herself to the principle of 'zero tolerance' in the face of human rights violations, but the scale of these violations calls for much more ambitious action, especially when there are several national and international reports directly implicating sections of the army and the police in these violations. these reports include statements by the special rapporteur on extrajudicial executions of the united nations human rights council, philip alston, as well as the melo commission. the situation is particularly worrying on the bontoc peninsula, where hundreds of farmers face numerous harassment and physical violence by private armed groups. finally, i think it is important to note the work done by the negotiating panel of the peace process and the government's announcement to guarantee the people of mindanao full self-determination. i should also like to reiterate the reservations that many of us have about the inclusion of certain groups such as the new people's army on the european union's list of terrorist groups, since this does not contribute to future peace negotiations but rather hinders them. as requested by various international organizations and institutions for the defence and promotion of human rights, we hope that this urgent resolution will help the philippine government to take a much firmer stand in the fight against political assassinations while guaranteeing the safety of those threatened, especially farmers and political and human rights activists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i welcome this report, which highlights one of the problems that most concerns european citizens today: the difficulty of accessing housing, a problem which limits the possibilities of social integration and mobility for many workers, which is the source of enormous social inequalities and which hinders the healthy independence of our young people to create their own homes, a problem which goes beyond the social sphere and is part of the wider context of urban planning. in this context, member states should use erdf funds in the field of housing, as well as the jessica and jeremie financial instruments, to make progress in addressing these problems, in close cooperation with local and regional authorities, socioeconomic actors and civil society, all this in conjunction with the promotion of the exchange of good practice. finally, i would like to stress the importance of training in urban planning within the framework of the european social fund, in favour of the dissemination of new technologies and more efficient building products which make it possible to improve energy efficiency in the housing sector.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to begin by reminding everyone that we are, of course, working within the regulations. within the framework of the regulations, the commission is trying to be as innovative as possible as regards generation of new instruments that could help us better address all the challenges. we are also trying to be as flexible as the regulations will allow. we are also working within the budget, which is large for some and too small for others, but which certainly made us reach out to other sources of financing, again in order to have increased capacities to address the challenges. however, the period in which we live requires us to do both things. on the one hand we must substantially improve our citizens’ quality of life. on the other hand we have to create the basic foundations for long-term sustainable development, for which, of course, innovation is crucial and the most important factor. concerning housing, the regulations are more generous with regard to poorer states, but there are still many areas in the eu-15 where we can support housing-related activities. this is especially true of the rehabilitation of public spaces in deprived inner-city areas, including security measures, and of the connection of multi-occupancy family houses to water supplies and sewage, energy and telecommunications networks. the eib and the council of europe development bank have been important sources for financing investment in the housing sector, independently of jessica. within the jessica framework we are now analysing how we can do the maximum to boost investment in housing through cheap loans and credit. one day of the leipzig ministerial meeting in may will be devoted to issues relating to urban areas. there will also be a leipzig charter on sustainable european cities. one of the paragraphs concerns the challenges that must be dealt with in relation to housing, especially in the context of energy. the commission will submit to this meeting an analysis of future programmes, especially concerning the housing issue. i would just like to remind you that the commission’s inter-service group working on urban issues has recently prepared an inventory of the urban dimension of community policies. it identifies all the policies which have an impact on housing in the context of public health, energy, social policy and urban transport. that inter-service group can certainly give more prominence to housing questions in its work programme. i am still considering how we can do this, but we will commission the study that you ask for in your report. i am sure these will be very useful studies, and we are, of course, constantly trying to be more innovative. we must be more innovative in terms of financial engineering and combining different sources. we will not succeed without making such efforts. concerning innovation, and as regards mr janowski’s report, many of you stress something which i find absolutely essential, namely the broader interpretation of innovation as not merely being limited to multinationals and state-of-the-art 21st- or 22nd-century technology, but also taking small- and medium-sized companies on board. i fully share your view on this twin challenge. we need local motors and poles to take us forward quickly. however, the real challenge is to spread innovation capacities across europe. i share your views on this very strongly. we need both poles and networks. that is why the regions for economic change, the first network of its kind, which will be launched this year, concerns the linking-up of clusters all over europe. we will have the regions working together on the question of how to bring innovation to the market as quickly as possible. as we know, europe’s basic disease is its slowness in this area. once again, mr president, thank you very much for this debate on the reports, which is a continuation of our interinstitutional discussions in this area. both reports are extremely useful, not least with regard to future policy reflections.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few minutes. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
if there is no objection, the english text will be used as the reference text.
i would inform you that the liberal and democratic group has withdrawn from the joint motion for a resolution.
the amendment by mrs de keyser introduces a phrase which is universal in scope. it says "in any democracy". the amendment is therefore intended to be universal in scope.
the voting is closed.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 12.35 p.m.)
mr president, i would like to refer to the latest crisis of irregular immigration in the canary islands: some 750 irregular immigrants have arrived on our shores. this coincided with a disruption of frontex border control operations. the spanish government has responded urgently by returning all these immigrants to their countries of origin, but it is worth stressing the promise made by mr frattini that the operations of frontex and hera would be permanent, since everything cannot be left to one government, since the issue of irregular immigration affects the whole of the european union.
madam president, i call on the european institutions - the commission, the council and parliament - to support the latest un security council resolution on the conflict in western sahara. in paragraph 2 of the resolution, the security council calls for a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution leading to the self-determination of the people of western sahara. the resolution is clear, but what is not clear is the permanent position of the kingdom of morocco, which systematically violates this resolution and impedes the free self-determination of the saharawi people. in the last week three human rights activists have been arrested in el aaiun, and there is a systematic mockery, a challenge, by the kingdom of morocco to this fundamental right. i believe that the european institutions cannot look the other way. we are talking about a country, morocco, which systematically flouts international law, the human rights of the occupied territories, and i therefore hope, i hope, that we will all support this resolution, especially its second paragraph.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all, on behalf of commissioner dimas i would like to express my sincere appreciation to parliament’s delegation which took part in the conciliation meeting with the council on 27 march. in particular i would like to thank mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, who led parliament’s delegation, and the rapporteur, mrs isler béguin. i would specifically like to commend the rapporteur for her excellent contribution throughout the negotiations, not least for the decisive compromise proposal she made in the evening of the conciliation meeting, which helped us reach a quick deal on life+. i am delighted that we have been able to resolve the outstanding difficulties and to arrive at a satisfactory outcome. as now proposed, life+ will co-finance projects which will contribute to improving europe’s environment. it will strengthen networking, communication and environmental governance and help share good practice throughout the european union. many stakeholders are waiting for the first call for proposals under the new programme which the commission intends to publish shortly after the entry into force of the regulation in the early autumn. the commission fully supports the conciliation text and i would encourage parliament to endorse the good result obtained by its negotiating team. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her remarks. i have taken good note of them.
the life programme process, especially in the last stage of the conciliation procedure, shows to what extent we are living in europe through a series of contradictions and how parliament is still needed as the direct representative of the citizens. the life project has always been a reference project: many ngos, many professionals, many municipalities have learned what european policy was and have learned to compete and to want to join environmental policy thanks to the life programme. any village, however small, is proud of having achieved a life project, and so are the consultants, the officials behind the projects and society itself. however, in the contradiction we are now experiencing, when on the one hand we are 'intergovernmental' and on the other hand we want a european constitution, it was decided at the end of the first reading that the funds would be managed by governments with national agencies. parliament was opposed to the idea that if something works splendidly - as life does - there is no need to change it. if we already had european added value, a created image of excellence and quality, why not maintain it? we have therefore, after a great deal of struggle, managed to get some of the money allocated to the countries, but we still maintain - and we have succeeded in getting the commission and subsequently the council to agree to this proposal - that all projects have the right to be heard and evaluated by the commission, even if a country-by-country screening is carried out first. i want this message to be clearly stated in the minutes: everyone has the right to be valued by the commission. finally, 'transnational projects' means that, for the first time, rivers, water flowing from one country to another, birds and the air itself have a stage for international work.
mr president, violence against women is a scourge with which no democratic society can live. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include women in the workforce. that is why this report is so important. i therefore want to start by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work. the daphne programme is an essential instrument in supporting women's organisations fighting gender-based violence, and its separation from the drug prevention and information programme has given it strength and visibility. it has been a real success for this parliament, as has been the increase in its budget, the inclusion of human trafficking and forced prostitution as forms of violence, as well as the reference to sexual organ ablation and honour killings. ladies and gentlemen, my country, spain, has a groundbreaking law to deal with gender-based violence from all its perspectives. a tool we consider necessary to stop, in a reasonable time, these crimes. i therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance to define as soon as possible a european legal framework to combat violence against women in a comprehensive way in all the member states. i agree with mrs gröner that we must move in this direction urgently.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 may. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mrs francisca pleguezuelos aguilar, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the impact and consequences of structural policies on eu cohesion [2006/2181 (ini) ] (a6-0150/2007).
the rapporteur. - mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the european commission on the opportunity it offers with this own-initiative report. this is an opportunity in time, both for the fourth debate on cohesion and for the next debate on the revision of the 2008-2009 budget of the european union, since cohesion policy will probably be the largest budget line of the european union, in which we will all be able to see the added value of this policy. that is why i have tried, in this impact report, to collect this impact in four main areas: social, economic, territorial and governance, making a set of proposals that pursue several objectives. firstly, of course, to optimise the synergy between the different public policies of the european union and the member states. it also aims to strengthen innovation and the territorial dimension of cohesion. we also want to measure more precisely, with new indicators, the convergence between the regions and the impact of cohesion policy. finally, it is a question of improving governance and, above all, of increasing the visibility of cohesion policy, because it is intended to bring it closer to european citizens. i would like to highlight some of the proposals contained in the report. on the one hand, the need to strengthen administrative capacity in the implementation phase of the new cohesion policy, by creating a network of accredited trainers to enable us to ensure all training measures and, above all, to ensure it at all levels, especially at the local level, which i believe is where the most work needs to be done. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the structural funds to include the following areas: in addition to promoting good practice and measuring the impact of the fund, it is proposed that orate be given the resources and functions necessary to act as a true observatory of good practice. on the other hand, we want to achieve a territorial balance between urban and rural areas, and therefore we want to encourage the exchange of good practice in networks - territorial networks - and to support, above all, economic activities that are outside the large urban centres. we must also work on the leitmotif of the territorial dimension, polycentrism and, of course, the use of new technologies. as regards innovation, which is certainly a factor in the implementation of cohesion policy, the aim is to adopt the aho report, which calls for at least 20% of the structural funds to be devoted to the promotion of r & d & i, and for the latter to be used not only for projects of excellence but also for smaller projects, especially in less favoured regions. similarly, considering that more than 90% of the european productive fabric is made up of small and mediumsized enterprises, we believe it is essential to facilitate their access to european aid and programmes, especially in the field of innovation. we have therefore proposed the figure of technological facilitators at regional and local level, who, in conjunction with regional projects and networks, will undoubtedly serve to give these smes a boost. these and other measures, ladies and gentlemen, which are proposed in the report, i am sure will make cohesion policy and its practical results more visible to european citizens. i would also like to mention that, in the light of recent developments concerning possible relocations in all production sectors and in all countries, including my own, i have tabled three amendments to my own report which insist on and, above all, reiterate the measures already contained in resolutions adopted by this parliament on the relocation of undertakings and how to ensure that undertakings receiving community funding do not relocate their activities. and above all, if they do, they should be sanctioned. amendments for which i am certainly asking your support, because i understand that they have already been debated and passed in this house. finally, i should like to thank all the alternative rapporteurs and all the members who have enriched this report with their proposals, and i hope they will support it.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the house for this debate and members for their comments. let me make two points here. first, it is true that the cohesion policy is working, but we still need more visibility and more knowledge about its impact. we have already reinforced our communication strategy so as to enlarge the visibility of the interventions. the commission also counts on members of the european parliament to help in this communications effort in your national and regional contexts, and the commission is open to any new ideas coming from your side. secondly, globalisation entails new challenges but also opportunities. consequently, cohesion policy must be able to face the former and to seize the latter. we must ensure that our labour force is adaptable to new challenges so that economic restructuring can take place as a continuous and low-intensity process, with no negative effects accumulated in space and time. in addition, we must ensure that the approach to the competitiveness of our regions takes proper account of issues like population ageing, migration flows, climate change, energy and increased commercial competition. however, we should not be too pessimistic: there are many regions in the union which rank among the most competitive and innovative regions in the world and which are benefiting from globalisation. this has been achieved by investing in new skills, building or attracting new reservoirs of talent and encouraging networks and clusters. it is by building on these successes and development strategies that the union can mobilise all its potential and place its economy on a high-growth, sustainable path. on the point concerning the importance of research and development, i would like to stress that the r&d framework programme has evolved over time and now incorporates specific measures for the benefit of the regions, in particular those with the weakest r&d capacities. likewise, the importance of an integrated eu approach to innovation, mobilising a mix of instruments from r&d to cohesion policy, has been acknowledged. cohesion policy, on the other hand, has substantially increased its investments in r&d and innovation, up to almost eur 50 billion in 2007-2013, in order to make it possible for all eu regions to have sufficient capacity to access the framework programme on a competitive basis. regarding the issue of new indicators, i wish to underline that the cohesion policy framework was fixed from 2007-2013. on 7 june 2007 commissioner hübner will present the fourth cohesion report in parliament’s regional development committee. finally, i would like to assure you that i have taken due note of your suggestions, ideas and concerns, which will be forwarded to commissioner hübner, who will certainly give them her full attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 may. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr joop post, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part (com ((2006) 0804 - c6-0506/2006 - 2006/0262 (cns)) (a6-0161/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i would first of all like to thank mr maat, who started the work on this subject, and the rapporteur, mr post, for their excellent work. as you know, on 2 june 2006, the commission, on behalf of the community and greenland, initialled a new fisheries partnership agreement after three years of long and complex negotiations. the agreement came into effect as of 1 january 2007 for a period of six years. currently, a provisional application of the agreement is in force through a council decision which was adopted on 21 december 2006. before making a short presentation of the new fisheries partnership agreement with greenland, i would like to outline just a few points relating to the previous agreement, which dated back to 1985 when greenland had left the community. shortly after the fourth protocol entered into force on 1 january 2001, the court of auditors and parliament strongly criticised the protocols under the greenland fisheries agreement for including ‘paper fish’, for not including the ship owners’ payment and for not being transparent enough. as a consequence, the commission emphasised the need for adjustments during the mid-term review of the fourth protocol in order to make a clearer distinction between the value for fish and support for the development of greenland’s fisheries sector. the revision of the fourth protocol led to a division of funds, under which 25 % of the financial contribution was earmarked for budgetary support to the fisheries sector. ‘paper fish’ were removed, real fish quotas and licence fees were introduced and provisions for an annual scientific review of the quotas were incorporated. these important changes were also incorporated into the new agreement. on this basis, during negotiations on the new agreement, the commission has insisted on obtaining quotas for real fish and eliminating ‘paper fish’, on maintaining and even increasing the shipowners’ payment and on having a clear sectoral policy programme for the fisheries sector to be supported by the community. another outcome of the mid-term review was the council conclusions of february 2003, in which the council stated that future cooperation between the community and greenland would be based on a two-pillar approach with a broader cooperation arrangement in areas other than fisheries and a fisheries agreement. the broader agreement takes the form of a council decision including a joint declaration and will provide up to eur 25 million per year to greenland on the basis of cooperation in areas other than fisheries. therefore, one can conclude that the initialling of the fisheries partnership agreement does not merely represent the closure of the negotiations conducted over the past year, but also the closure of what was initialled back in 2003 with the mid-term review of the fourth fisheries protocol and the council conclusions of february 2003. turning now to the new agreement, let me outline the following. the financial contribution of the previous protocol was eur 42.8 million per year, making it one of the biggest bilateral fisheries agreements. the value of the new protocol has decreased considerably given the changes to the community quotas. some have decreased due to the poor state of the stocks, the needs of greenland’s fishing industry and the rate of utilisation by the community, while others have increased due to the sound state of the stocks and based on the needs of community industry. as a result of these changes to the quotas, the community’s financial contribution is now eur 15.85 million per year. this sum includes a specific sum of eur 3.26 million to be used for a multiannual fisheries policy programme in greenland. in addition to this contribution, a payment from ship owners of eur 2 million in the form of licences is also expected. with regard to the amendments put forward by parliament, i would like to stress that the commission fully shares the concern of the parliament on each amendment proposed. however, with respect to amendments 1-3, we feel that these are already covered in the protocol itself and we therefore consider them unnecessary. furthermore, in relation to amendments 4 and 6 on the reporting requirements to parliament, i would like to stress that the commission already complies with the transmission of this information in line with the current interinstitutional arrangement. moreover, concerning amendment 5 on the member states’ compliance with reporting requirements, it should be stressed that the commission already examines whether catch reporting is respected. in addition, it is stated in the annex and the appendix to the protocol that vessels must comply with the reporting requirements of the previous fishing year in order to obtain a licence. on this basis, therefore, the amendment is not necessary. finally, on amendment 7, i would like to make it clear that, given the previous criticism put forward by both the court of auditors and the european parliament itself of the commission’s financial management of the external fisheries agreements, the commission finds it hard to understand this amendment, which, in essence, is no different to the mechanism found under the modified fourth protocol and does not make it possible for the commission to manage the under-utilised fishing opportunities in the best possible way. therefore, taking the financial responsibility of the commission into consideration, the commission cannot accept this amendment. in conclusion, let me thank parliament and, in particular, the members of the committee on fisheries and the rapporteur for their constructive engagement on this important fight.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to discuss, at last, a fisheries agreement with greenland which begins to respect the minimum rules of financial transparency and non-discrimination between shipowners and member states. we must acknowledge the progress made since the previous agreements, including the mid-term amendment in 2003, to adapt them - as the commissioner has rightly said - to the guidelines of the council of ministers and to the complaints of the court of auditors and of this parliament, which focused mainly on this lack of budgetary transparency, the greatest exponent of which was the institutionalized custom of paying astronomical sums for 'non-existent fish' or paper quotas. however, this agreement still has too much small print and content which continues to be too separate from other agreements. i would therefore ask the commissioner, in order to avoid a repeat of past events, whether he can promise that we will never again have to hear about paper quotas or experience the hopeless situation of the snow crab fishery, for which quotas, repeatedly requested by community shipowners, were finally returned to greenland unused and paid for at a price of gold, and whether fishing opportunities not used by the member states to which they have been allocated can be used by those who request them, as is the case with the other agreements. that said, mr president, i can only congratulate the rapporteur, mr post, who has had the difficult task of continuing a report initiated by another colleague, mr maat, and who has done a splendid job. mr president, as i have a few seconds left, i would like to complain once again that in this house fisheries reports are always dealt with at the end of a night session. i ask you, as vice-president and spaniard, to try to do something to prevent this from happening again in the future.
mrs fraga, the advantage of discussing at this hour is that only female colleagues are involved, because at this hour of the night it seems that only women are working, apart from the rapporteur and the person presiding.
on behalf of the pse group. i would simply like to say, mr president, that i am very pleased with what commissioner borg has said about this agreement. i have just this afternoon reviewed my speeches in the house on greenland in 2003 and even in 2002, and i believe that we are getting closer to what we said then and have said since: that we want the greenland fisheries agreement to be as similar as possible to any other fisheries agreement the community has signed. in this respect, i cannot but welcome the fact that there is at last a balanced sharing of the cost of this between the shipowners and the community budget. i cannot but welcome and rejoice at the adjustment of the financial compensation to the real fishing opportunities offered by greenland and i certainly agree with the commissioner in rejecting amendment no 7, because it is necessary to allow the fleets without quotas to take advantage of the fishing opportunities that are not being used.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, thank you all for your comments and for your overall support of the commission’s proposal for a revised agreement with greenland, which is an important part of the network of fisheries partnership agreements that are currently in place. as i have already stated, the review was necessary for two primary reasons. first, we needed to ensure value for our money through better and full utilisation of fishing possibilities and second, further to a critical assessment by the court of auditors and by this parliament, the commission is obliged to inject transparency into the agreement, and we hope to have managed to do so. i agree that there will be scrupulous checking of the use of the fishing possibilities under this agreement and the use of the funds provided. i would like to stress that, regarding the financial contribution to be paid under the protocol, the commission cannot guarantee sound financial management without having the legal basis. this means, in other words, that there is a need for a transfer mechanism which habilitates the commission in case of under-utilisation and with due respect to the principle of relative stability and to article 25 of the basic regulation to transfer in due time unutilised fishing opportunities to ensure their optimum utilisation. i would also underline that the new mechanism of the agreement provided in article 3(2) is specifically to make possible maximum utilisation of fishing possibilities and to eliminate ‘paper fish’. on the question of relative stability, raised by ms attwooll and by ms stihler, the temporary transfer of fishing possibilities from one member state to another by the commission is not contrary to the principle of relative stability, which, in accordance with article 21 of regulation (ec) no 2371/2002, governs the allocation of fishing possibilities amongst member states. such a transfer will not have any effect on the allocation of fishing possibilities between the member states in greenland’s waters in the future. each year the allocation will be done on the basis of the allocation keys – that is, on the basis of relative stability. the intention behind article 3(2) is to ensure the highest possible utilisation without affecting relative stability. this article exists and is implemented in all other third country agreements with financial compensation. the only agreement which does not have this article is the current greenland agreement. as the new fpa is an agreement with financial compensation and involves a significant amount of public funding, it is crucial that the commission has the legal means to act. i would also like to underline that, notwithstanding the improvements that have been achieved under the existing agreement, the rate of utilisation is still not the optimum. taking into account the transfers to norway, it ranks at around 80 %. if one eliminates the transfers to norway, it will go down to about 65 % utilisation, and i think that we owe it to the public to achieve much better results than that. indeed, this article is subject to discussions in the council and will be debated in the council and decided upon, hopefully, on 11 june. admittedly, the wording could be clearer and improved upon, maintaining the principle of relative stability while ensuring the highest utilisation of possibilities. so, we will do our utmost to achieve an agreement in the council whereby we will polish the wording so that, without prejudicing the principle of relative stability, we will ensure the maximum utilisation of the fishing possibilities under this new agreement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 may.
madam president, i do not intend to speak for five minutes, but i would ask you, with your generosity and knowledge of the region to which i am referring, to allow me to speak on a point of order. the point is, madam president, that i wonder if the president of this institution could join, if he has not already done so, the call by the secretary-general of the united nations, mr ban ki-moon, for an end to the fighting in lebanon, which is already costing a tremendous number of lives. i think this is essential and would reflect the spirit of each and every member of this house. i know that we are debating the situation in palestine this afternoon, but the fact is that, as this morning unfolds, innocent civilians are still being killed in lebanon. that's what i'm asking.
member of the commission. madam president, this is a very important report. let me recall the background of global europe. in europe we face huge challenges due to the pace of change in the global economy. this creates new opportunities, but it also generates some insecurity and understandable concerns. our core message is clear: rejection of protectionism at home, activism in opening markets abroad. we need to look beyond tariff reduction, to the trade barriers that lie behind borders. we also need to step up our engagement with the major economies of the next generation, particularly – but not only – in asia, where there is huge potential for growth but where europe is not performing as strongly as it should. our first priority remains the wto and the doha development agenda and i want to say something about that. there is a lot at stake for the global economy and for the developing world, and i will certainly explore every avenue in the weeks ahead to make a deal possible. for two days last week the european union hosted the brazilian, indian and us ministerial negotiators just outside brussels. we had a constructive meeting, focusing on numbers and outcomes. achieving these outcomes will not be at all easy. however, i believe on balance that we can find our way through this negotiation and conclude the doha round this year, as we agreed in delhi in april. this requires convergence amongst the g4 in the next month or so. the political commitment to that objective is high indeed at the highest political level. the gaps are still wide between us, both inside agriculture and between agriculture and industry and services. however, they are bridgeable if all parties agree to combine sufficient ambition with sufficient flexibility. i will insist on the basic principle that there should be real cuts and effective reductions from all key players in all key areas. real market access in agriculture is worth real farm subsidy reductions and real cuts in industrial goods tariffs. the level of ambition of the final package in agriculture and in industrial tariffs is inextricably linked. europe is prepared to do a lot – indeed more than others – but we are not prepared to go to the limit of our ambition if others do not do the same. of course there must be proportionate effort between developed and developing countries. it is also vital to remember that the bulk of the economic gains in the doha round will not come from agricultural market access or indeed non-agricultural market access but from commitments by wto members to open their services markets and from cutting the red tape and costs in time and money affecting trade flows worldwide. the services and trade facilitation negotiations are operating on a different timeline to the market access negotiations, but they must not fall through the gaps. all of us amongst the core negotiators must assume our fair share of the effort and responsibility needed for a balanced outcome in this round. we all need to look forward to the economies we want to create in the future, rather than backwards to defend the structures of the past. yes, consolidate the gains from past market opening, but also make a contribution to the new market opening needed to boost trade growth in the future. that is the only basis on which these negotiations can conclude, and we have little over a month to do so. however, we can and should build on the platform created by the wto to generate new opportunities for growth by further opening markets bilaterally to trade and investment, not as an alternative but as a complement to the dda. we have quite an ambitious agenda ahead of us: fta negotiations with korea, india and asean, stepping up our engagement with china and the united states, ipr enforcement, a renewed market access strategy, follow-up of the trade defence instruments green paper, and further work on the trade and development agenda. we do this against the background of this complex multilateral trade round. this requires careful handling. but the first six months of our global europe strategy demonstrate that we can move forward in parallel: we have taken concrete initiatives following our global europe agenda and we have put the dda back on track. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr caspary, for his excellent work. i am very happy to see the way the report handles all these issues. i am glad that parliament takes a high interest in the report, which is clearly demonstrated in the almost 200 amendments. i am also happy to see that the committee on economic and monetary affairs has been associated, given the link with the lisbon strategy. let me assure you that we have involved parliament, and will continue to do so in the future, in the development of the global europe agenda. we informed the committee on international trade during the preparatory work of our overall communication, which i presented to the committee on international trade once it had been adopted by the commission. my departments or myself have discussed all initiatives following the global europe agenda – i.e. the communication on china, the green paper on tdi, the communication on market access – at different times with parliament. for new ftas, the negotiating directives have been provided to the committee on international trade – which is a novelty – and my departments have briefed the committee recently on the state of play. i will update the committee on international trade in early june on the fta negotiations that we have just kicked off. the commission will consider carefully the recommendations and suggestions made by parliament in its resolution. however, as guardian of the treaties we will do so by respecting the existing framework. we need your continued full cooperation and your valid input on global europe in order to make the right choices on this ambitious journey. i am very glad that we have made good progress on this today with the caspary report.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, when we talk about the competitiveness of global europe, we are not talking about a theoretical or academic question, we are talking about wealth creation, job creation, the well-being of our citizens, europe's role in the world, its responsibilities and how it exercises them, with its neighbours, with its trading partners and also with those who are weaker and who are most likely to suffer from what we have come to call globalisation. i welcome, on behalf of my group, mr caspary's report, to which we will add, in the subsequent vote, some amendments which will improve or clarify some of his statements, not in the sense of removing anything, but by adding some ideas in support of the amendments tabled by other groups. trade and free markets are not dogma, they are not religious truths to be defended as such. it is a fact, a fact, that only free trade, with clear and fair rules for all, can contribute to the creation of wealth, well-being and development. protectionism can never go in that direction, and there has never been any evidence that it will do anything. free trade, the opening up of markets worldwide, indirectly leads to the creation of greater individual freedoms for those who benefit from that freedom. that is why we are in favour of open markets and liberalisation, not as defenders of a dogma or a religious truth or a principle to which we are politically attached, but because the benefits are very clear. when the european union defends this same principle, it is defending, in the new strategy for a global europe, this opening up of markets worldwide, and it must also exercise its own responsibilities. the european union has a great responsibility when it represents and defends us. the european union has a responsibility not to lose sight of the restrictions which still exist, restrictions, in many cases non-tariff ones, which are being progressively imposed. i would like to stress one of the problems which we shall have occasion to discuss: the commercial stigmatisation of european products in some countries. the european union also has its responsibility when it negotiates on our behalf, when it asks for access to the services market, when it negotiates in the field of public procurement. it is very important that our trade policy not only be not incompatible with our development policy but that it should be perfectly in line with it - which i am not saying is not being done - but there is a risk that we will have a trade policy which does not go in parallel with our development obligations. we shall therefore also be adding some amendments to this report to make this point clear.
mr president, it is true that we are faced with globalisation and there are two ways of dealing with it: either we let ourselves be carried away by events or we try to govern and intervene in it, to regulate it, after all. i think that is what we are trying to do with our trade policy, and that is, in my view, the meaning of the european commission's communication and, in general, of mr caspary's report. we must send a very clear message to our citizens in the debate we are holding today. we are not trying to get our market share, regardless of other criteria, no. we want to be present on the world market, but we want to promote the strengthening of the european social model and the spread of wealth and, therefore, the reduction of poverty throughout the world. this must be achieved in multilateral terms first and foremost. the world trade organisation remains the preferred channel for the european union to intervene in globalisation. in this sense, all efforts must be made to complete the doha development round. until that happens, we must, as a matter of responsibility to our citizens and also to the citizens of the countries with which we want to conclude free trade agreements, promote this second instrument. mr caspary's report contains elements which are very important for the socialists and social democrats. i would like to refer to paragraph 20 on the rules of the international labour organisation, or paragraph 65, which clearly distinguishes commercial services from public services. if, moreover, the casparry report incorporated our amendments nos 43 and 52, it would be much more in line with what we are trying to achieve. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would also like to say, as a member of the committee on constitutional affairs, that i hope the council will agree to implement what the constitution, in the process of ratification or amendment, provides for: not only an assent but also participation in the mandate, in the follow-up of the negotiations and, therefore, full representation of the citizens in something which, after all, very clearly affects their daily lives.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to welcome and commend all those who have spoken on this subject this morning. i do not find myself in disagreement with anyone who has contributed. i agree, for example, with mr papastamkos, who said it is very important that, when we are pursuing trade and reform policies of our own, we are able to put in place flanking measures properly supported with adequate funds which enable developing countries to adjust to those reforms too. i agree with mrs saïfi that this has to be a results-driven process, which is why i attach importance to proper reporting as part of an effective aid-for-trade monitoring and reporting pillar, both in respect of what we do in the eu and in relation to the wto. if i might, though, just make two responses: first of all, to those who have questioned whether there is any question of double counting, recycling of money, robbing peter to pay paul or robbing paul to pay peter (which might be preferable!) – in fact neither is happening. aid for trade, in our view, should never imply less aid for other sectors. the increases in aid for trade for both the commission and the member states are less than the overall oda budget increases. therefore, there is no need to reallocate resources from other sectors to meet the aid-for-trade pledges. secondly, one or two members raised the issue of fair trade. in my view, our strategy should confirm full support for any activity which involves the private sector – especially smes – and civil society to ensure that aid for trade facilitates the creation and growth of enterprises to compete in international markets, for example, voluntary initiatives such as fair trade, eco-labels and comparable corporate scheme standards. the strategy should also address related issues of labour market and social adjustment and the ilo’s core labour standards. last of all, i think that max van den berg’s point about rules of origin, their improvement and simplification is very important. it is something on which i have focused and not made, along with my colleagues in the commission, as much progress to date as i would like to have done, and we need to add speed. lastly, i think mr schmidt made some important points about aid for trade and its possible impact on local markets, and i shall certainly reflect on those. but i would like to thank david martin once again for what has been an excellent and welcome report.
the debate is closed with the intervention of commissioner mandelson. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr sturdy, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the economic partnership agreements (2005/2246 (ini)) (a6-0084/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, it is a pleasure for me to respond to this debate on behalf of the commission because of the importance of this subject: nothing less than future development, alleviation of poverty and opportunities to use the advantages of the international trade system are at stake for the acp, some of the most poverty-struck countries in the world to whom we owe an absolute obligation. the economic partnership agreements are about using trade as a lever for development. we have no intention of forcing acp countries to make commitments against their will. we are operating with one constraint, however: epas need to be wto-compliant, thus including trade-opening on both sides for trade in goods and trade in services. this of course, and i say this emphatically, does not mean symmetrical trade-opening between the eu and the acp. obviously, in market-opening towards its partners, the eu will go much beyond what acp partners will do for the eu. in addition, in many areas, we are ready to give serious consideration to transition periods and in some cases very long transition periods – up to 25 years – together with substantial financial aid to help these countries implement their commitments so that epas genuinely act as a catalyst for policy reforms in acp countries. concerning market access, recently the general affairs council of our member states reaffirmed the principle of duty-free, quota-free, access to the acp but with transition periods for a few sensitive products, notably rice and sugar. the same principle applies on bananas but we agreed on additional evaluation, notably to take into account the eu’s outermost regions, and that will happen. specifically, in response to what mr van den berg said, we are jointly building with acp regions asymmetric market access schedules which allow continued protection for acp-sensitive sectors. our duty-free, quota-free offer gives great scope to protect the acp and to open their markets in a deeply asymmetric manner. in addition, flexible safeguards will be in place so that we can take action quickly if problems arise. however, a conditional market access schedule would once again put our trading arrangements in a vulnerable position in the wto, creating further uncertainty for acp traders and investors. introducing such a conditional approach would therefore not be wise from the point of view of the interests of the acp countries themselves. some members have talked about alternatives to epas. i can say without any hesitation or qualification whatsoever: there are no better development-friendly or superior development instruments available to us that would exceed the ambition and the potential that economic partnership agreements offer. to offer gsp as some have suggested, when instead we could negotiate good economic partnership agreements, would indeed be nonsense. acp countries that are not ldcs would end up with worse market access to the european union than almost any other developing countries in the world. yes, some then go on to propose gsp+ as an alternative, by relaxing entry criteria to gsp+ and expanding its coverage. this again is completely unacceptable. gsp+ continues the divisions in trade regime between ldcs and non-ldcs that epas are seeking to remove and does not promote the use of market access in the way that epas do. the gsp is open to all countries and many would simply take advantage of relaxed gsp+ criteria, exposing the acp to direct competition while fundamentally undermining the purpose of gsp+, which is using trade preferences to promote signature of accords on human rights and good working practices. so i hope that people will not pursue or entertain the idea of gsp or gsp+ being an acceptable and/or superior alternative to epas. the best development option by far is to sign epas on time. any alternative falls short of this. we cannot simply flout wto rules on the goods trade section of epas. if it becomes clear that for any region we are really not going to make it, ldcs get everything but arms; for non-ldcs that export bananas in particular, the waiver route is probably not politically viable at all. for others, things depend on progress in negotiations. i would like to conclude by saying that, in contrast to some of those who have spoken here in parliament this morning, i find the approach of the acp countries shows considerable realism and understanding of what it is in the acp’s interests to do. the acp countries have voluntarily agreed the route map that we are following in negotiating these agreements. it is certainly not in the interests of the acp for those who present themselves as friends of the acp to peddle a doomsday scenario, to generate fears and insecurity which can only hold the acp back from engaging in the negotiations which it is so much in their interest to conclude by the end of the year.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
mr president, i propose an oral amendment to add 'the poorest countries' instead of 'developing countries'.
second time. this time i fully share the spirit of the amendment. the point is to ask the commission to take account of what is in the amendment. that is the spirit of the amendment. this would mean that, where it says: ... should not seek to include, we should say that the eu should deal carefully with these issues. i would advise my colleagues in the socialist and green groups to think carefully before opposing it, otherwise we risk voting against the amendment as a whole.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in recent days, we have seen a worrying increase in violence in the middle east. the internal palestinian conflict in the gaza strip has claimed more than fifty lives. over 150 qassam rockets were fired from the gaza strip at israeli cities in the last week. an israeli woman died last night. more than 30 palestinians have already been killed in israeli military actions. there is a serious risk of further escalation. the ceasefire agreed in november between palestinians and israelis in the gaza strip is becoming increasingly fragile, and the intra-palestinian reconciliation achieved with saudi help in mecca in february is at stake. the unification of mecca has contributed to the end of the islamist monopoly of hamas. since 18 march, a new palestinian government of national unity has been in power in palestine. the european parliament has already expressed its confidence in the government, with 83 out of 86 mps, including all hamas and fatah mps. but there is still a broad consensus in the international community that the palestinian government has not yet passed the litmus test. because this government does not fully meet the three criteria of the quartet. the european union has nevertheless maintained its humanitarian support for the palestinians. i want to emphasize this: the european union has given more than eur 300 million than in previous years. the quartet criteria remain the benchmark for full normalisation of our relations with the palestinians: recognition of the right of the state of israel to exist and of the existing agreements between israel and the plo, and a general renunciation of violence. but there is still a considerable shortcoming, particularly in the area of nonviolence. we expect the palestinian government to take effective action against the shelling and to release the israeli soldier shalit. the european union has nevertheless used the end of the hamas monopoly government to revive its middle east policy. the foreign ministers have resumed contact with the members of the government who accept the quartet criteria. president abbas therefore deserves our full support. the eu is in close contact with finance minister fayyad and is supporting him in building transparent financial institutions and mechanisms, as improving the financial and economic situation is our common objective. the european union has repeatedly called for the release of the customs and tax refunds withheld by israel. the presidency has been committed for months to reviving the quartet and to involving the constructive arab partners more closely. after initial successes, we are now particularly concerned with maintaining the momentum we have achieved. for us, this means that we must contribute even more actively to strengthening the efforts of all those involved in the middle east peace process. the bilateral meetings between president abbas and prime minister olmert have not yet produced any tangible results. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the palestinians are able to move freely within the borders of the occupied territories. on the palestinian side, i miss the commitment to non-violence and the commitment to the release of israeli soldier shalit. the arab league reaffirmed the peace initiative of march 2002, thanks in particular to saudi involvement. the first successful meeting of the arab league with the european union took place at our invitation at the last council on 14 may. the arab league has held further talks with the quartet and also with israel. while this engagement cannot replace bilateral negotiations between palestinians and israelis, the peace initiative can create a positive environment for them. but this is precisely what the european union should continue to promote. we, as the presidency, will endeavour to arrange another meeting of the quartet in the next few days. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european union has become increasingly aware of its growing role in recent months. we are prepared to meet this increased responsibility.
member of the commission. madam president, unfortunately this debate today comes at a very tense moment when the situation in the whole region is deteriorating both in lebanon and in the occupied palestinian territory, as well as in israel. the events of the last three days in lebanon, with significant loss of life in such a short time – almost 100 dead – are a startling reminder of the need to work on a regional solution to this conflict. as you know, javier solana is in beirut today at this very difficult moment and we hope that a better situation can be brought about. i urge our friends in lebanon, from all the parties and political factions, to act as they have done so far, to call for calm and to refrain from actions which could provoke a major internal conflict. once again national unity is also at stake. the commission noted that all the factions, the majority and the opposition as well as palestinian organisations, condemned fatah al-islam and i hope that all political leaders will continue to give proof of their maturity, that ability to envisage a better future, and will prevent the conflict from again evolving into an intra-lebanese fight. what is most important now is to find a solution to de-escalate the situation in tripoli and to avoid the eruption of other hot spots in the rest of the country. the population in the camps also has to be helped. ambulances and humanitarian convoys must gain access to the camps. in the end we all know that there has to be a regional solution. in the context of this whole situation we can only call on all sides – in lebanon and in the palestinian territory – to refrain from violence and prevent further escalation. i turn now in particular to the occupied palestinian territory. like the president-in-office, i too am deeply concerned about last week’s interfactional clashes in gaza which resulted in 55 dead and 280 injured. regrettably it seems that gaza is at risk of sliding into civil war. factions should stop hostilities immediately and reconcile their differences within the national unity government. i also deplore the resumption of the qassam rocket attacks from gaza on the israeli city of sderot, which yesterday caused the death of an israeli woman. israeli-led air strikes in retaliation then caused the death of 35 palestinians, so this vicious cycle has started again. therefore it is important that the ceasefire between israel and the palestinians be restored and extended to the west bank. during my recent meeting with the palestinian foreign affairs minister, ziad abu amr, we discussed the fragile situation of the national unity government, especially as concerns security, but also the budget. the first decisions taken by the government seem to point in the right direction. mr abu amr mentioned that his government considers itself the cabinet of president abbas. this government has a different programme from its predecessor and i felt encouraged after this meeting. i think that it deserves our clear support. president abbas has requested all our backing, as his political survival may depend on its success. i hope that this very difficult violent situation can be contained. in the meantime, finance minister salam fayad, whom i met after the formation of the government, faces the incredible challenge of repairing the palestinian public finances after one year of institutional decay and a sharp decrease in revenues. against all odds he has made considerable progress and the technical conditions for receiving direct funding have almost been put in place. as you know, the palestinian authority has three main sources of funding: internal taxes, taxes and customs revenues on imported products, and foreign aid. internal taxes have dwindled as a result of the economic slowdown. since last year’s election, israel has also withheld the taxes and customs revenues on imported products. this is the major cause of the palestinian authority’s financial difficulties. furthermore, foreign aid cannot flow easily as a result of the us-imposed restrictions on financial transactions with the palestinian authority government we are helping to solve these financial problems in three ways. first, our temporary international mechanism has become a core source for funding for allowances, fuel costs and core supplies. since the formation of the national unity government we manage this tim in close cooperation with salam fayad’s ministry of finance. since the establishment of the tim last june, we have already transferred over eur 300 million through this mechanism. i would like to thank parliament for its support in making more budgetary resources available so that the tim can continue to deliver. a second way in which we are helping is to work with our us partners to facilitate the transfer of foreign aid to the palestinians, in particular the arab funds pledged in riyadh at the recent arab summit. last but not least, we have urged israel on multiple occasions to resume the transfer of palestinian tax and customs revenues. we are using all the instruments we have, whether economic or political, but the survival of this government does not depend only on us. only the resumption of all financial flows to the palestinian authority can deliver a durable solution to their financial crisis. and the palestinians have to play their role and decide once and for all to end their fighting and focus on peace. we still think that, despite the distress we are witnessing in the occupied palestinian territory and in lebanon, we should profit from an important window of opportunity in the peace process in case it shuts down again, so it is very important that the german initiative is successful. it is crucial that the arab league relaunches its peace initiative. as you know, there has been a determined diplomatic follow-up at the highest level in the council, the commission and the european parliament. i myself have had several meetings with the follow-up committee in sharm el sheikh, in riyadh, and also more recently at the gaerc meeting in brussels. secretary-general amr moussa and others have underlined the urgency which is more evident than ever today and he has asked for our help in bringing the parties to the table. on the israeli side, i am encouraged that foreign minister livni has been to cairo and is now expecting a follow-up visit by her jordanian and egyptian counterparts in the coming weeks. she has also shown willingness to engage more than in the past and she will also be invited by the german presidency to the next gaerc meeting. at the same time i also endorse the efforts of secretary of state condoleeza rice to bring the parties together and start discussing the political horizon for the palestinians. i hope that will be possible even though events are not going well at this moment. the energy and efforts invested by jordan, egypt, saudi arabia and others must also be recognised. next week the quartet will meet. i hope that this meeting will respond to the efforts of the arab league, which could relaunch the progress on all tracks of the peace process, but i am also realistic and i understand what the german presidency has said, that we should at least uphold the situation.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. madam president, we are indeed facing a very difficult situation. as the representative of the presidency of the council and the commissioner have stressed, this is a serious political crisis, with clashes and internal wars between the two factions in the government of national unity, on which so many hopes had been placed; a very serious economic, social and humanitarian crisis, with devastating figures: more than 66% of the palestinian population living below the poverty line; more than 50% without food security; more than one million people who have not been able to receive a stable income over the past year; a hundred dead in the last three days in lebanon; many dead in the gaza strip. i believe that in the face of this situation the european union must wake up from its lethargy and take a step in the right direction. if something has been done well, it should be put to the european commission's credit, which, in the midst of innumerable difficulties, is making its contribution to the humanitarian and social catastrophe that the region is experiencing, but i think we have to go further. the commissioner reminded us that the high representative, javier solana, is currently in the region. we must have the courage and strength to try to get out of the rhetorical declarations, mr president-in-office of the council, and make an effort, from the european union, to try to bring some common sense to this barbaric situation that the region is experiencing. there is a vicious cycle of violence: the sending of kassam missiles, the israeli reprisals, the announcement of suicide attacks... we are facing a spiral of violence absolutely suicidal. we must try to put some order in the situation, trust the efforts of the high representative, mobilize the european union's diplomacy to the utmost and support, from the commission, all the humanitarian and economic support that is being provided. i would like to comment to the president-in-office of the council on a point which seems to me to be key, namely that in order to resume direct aid to the palestinian national authority the quartet stated that the decisive factor was not only the composition of the government but also the actions that the government was taking. could the president-in-office of the council give us an assessment of this and explain how we can break out of this vicious circle of hatred, violence and destruction?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the approximation of taxes on alcohol and alcoholic beverages, by setting minimum levels for tax rates, is a valid method of reducing distortions of competition and imbalances in the functioning of the single market, while at the same time respecting a space for the exercise of the fiscal powers of the member states. the revision of the rates, which have remained unchanged since 1992, is necessary to prevent the system from being out of phase and losing its raison d'être. it is also a complex operation, since, although the initial effort of approximation has been devalued over time, it has also been extended by the incorporation since then, in three successive waves, of 15 member states with very different situations and cultures. the abandonment of the acquis communautaire, as proposed by the rapporteur, is a step backwards which can lead to a destabilising dynamic with undesirable consequences. preserving it does not prevent member states from exploring and anticipating new developments through soft formulas such as codes of conduct. it is estimated that the commission's proposal to recover, as from 1 january 2008, the 31% increase in inflation between 1983 and 2005 will have no effect on most states, which have higher minimum rates, although it may lead to a sharp increase in others and negatively affect producers, employment and price controls. i therefore advocate that wine should remain exempt in the review, that the proposed rates should be reduced, taking into account the particular sensitivity of beer and intermediate products, and that a gradual adaptation to the new member states should be facilitated, since they are taking a more divergent position. in future i think it would be appropriate to carry out periodic reviews, although automatic indexation could disconnect this fiscal instrument from economic policy in the european union.
the next item is the report by mr paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on roaming on public mobile telephone networks in the community and amending directive 2002/21/ec on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (com (2006) 0382 - c6-0244/2006 - 2006/0133 (cod)) (a6-0155/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to parliament, because parliament was among the first to focus attention on the problem of international roaming charges, which are one of the last remaining barriers to the single market. this political pressure pointed at the failure of the market and this has helped us to come up with a solution. now it is up to you, the parliamentarians, to complete the job by supporting this proposal today. the proposal on which you will vote is a product of intense discussions, even at times heated debates, among the institutions and with the stakeholders. the result is a solid, well-balanced proposal that will deliver tangible results for european citizens, putting an end to the long-running saga of excessive roaming charges as from this summer. the citizens are waiting for this action, for this europe of results, and it is now in your hands not to disappoint them. the commission has completed its part of the job. in december 2004 i urged the operators to solve the problems by themselves. in october 2005 the commission published a website for the purpose of bringing transparency to international roaming tariffs. at the same time i warned once again that should those prices not go down sensibly, the commission would have to regulate. to my regret, the market did not respond and that is why on 12 july 2006 the commission brought forward the proposal for the roaming regulation. you have worked on this proposal, together with the council of ministers, under the leadership of the finnish and german presidencies. i would like to underline the excellent work of your rapporteurs, mr rübig, mr muscat, mr mavrommatis and mr losco. the result of this work is on the table today. the commission can very well accept the compromise text because the core elements, which the commission always believed necessary, have been preserved. those are: retail regulation, wholesale regulation, clear benefits for all consumers and transparency. at retail level, each operator will have to offer a eurotariff with maximum prices of eur 0.94 for outgoing calls, to be reduced to 0.46 after 12 months and 0.43 after 24 months, and of 0.24 for incoming calls, to be reduced to 0.22 and 0.19 after 24 months. these caps represent a substantial reduction of up to 70% of the standard charges in today’s market. the question now is: when will the customer benefit from those reductions? the answer is as soon as possible, this summer. to help ensure effective implementation, i have sent a letter to both parliament and the council, which sets out in detail how the retail provisions should apply in practice under the supervision of the national regulatory authorities. first, the council has to publish the regulation in the official journal. this should be done very swiftly after the meeting of the council of telecom ministers on 7 june 2007. then, the roaming customers’ operators must send an offer of a compliant eurotariff to the customer within one month. the customer will be entitled to this eurotariff one month after responding to the offer. this means that a proactive customer can benefit from the eurotariff at the latest two months after the commencement of the regulation or even less than two months if his operator has taken a positive approach. saying it clearly, this means august. any customer that does not respond will be placed automatically on a eurotariff three months after the commencement of the regulation. this means september. the commission will immediately start working with the national regulatory authorities to ensure that customers are treated properly. the regulation will protect the vast majority of ordinary customers who up to now have been heavily overcharged when travelling abroad. the regulation also will protect the smaller operators by introducing ceilings at wholesale level. these ceilings are high enough to allow all operators, big or small, a reasonable margin. at the same time, they are sufficiently low to allow for competitive conditions for smaller operators, new market entrants and operators from smaller member states. i hope and i expect that they will use this margin to come forward with innovative offerings at once. the final plank of the regulation concerns the all-important element of transparency, which up to now has been sadly lacking. the main requirements are a push system, with basic price information, as well as a pull system, allowing consumers to get more detailed information, which will include prices for sms and data. i should like to say one word about the high roaming prices for mobile data. in cooperation with the national regulatory authorities, we will need to watch this market very closely. the operators should know this, heed these warning signals very carefully and bring the prices down to normal by themselves in order to avoid further regulation. finally, i should like to point out that this regulation will automatically cease to apply after three years, unless parliament and the council decide otherwise. i very much hope that this will not be necessary. however, what will be necessary is now the reform of the telecom markets, going from 27 separate markets to one single truly european market, taking advantage of the power of nearly 500 million consumers. this is the next task which is waiting for us. however, today let us look at what has been achieved in the roaming dossier. it is very rare, if not to say unusual, to bring about an agreement on a legislative action in only 10 months. i am proud of the european institutions, which have shown that they are capable of listening to the consumers and to act swiftly in order to solve very specific problems. i count on a large majority in this house, which represents the european citizens, in order to complete the task now and to prove by such a majority that the europe of practical results is a reality. (applause)
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a double pleasure for me to speak here, on the one hand because we seem to be able to bring one of the key issues of the german presidency to a satisfactory conclusion, and on the other hand it is a personal pleasure for me to return to this familiar circle. i still feel at home in this great house. the agreement between the council and parliament was extremely difficult. there were tough negotiations. but it was a fair fight. we would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for his constructive conduct of the negotiations and the committee chairman for his mediating role, which is at the same time one of solidarity with parliament. we would like to thank our colleagues in the council who have agreed to this compromise with great difficulty. the compromise reached is necessary from the point of view of consumer policy, economically justifiable and pleasing from the point of view of european policy. it is necessary for consumer policy because there is no way around the finding of a market failure. there was no market in this area. the consumer had no choice in terms of his consumer tariff and basically the fact of crossing a border within the european union was exploited to obtain high prices. we couldn't accept that. now comes a huge relief for the consumer. on behalf of the council, i welcome this. the compromise is also economically viable. we all in the european union are committed to the single market. the mobile phone market in particular is a very dynamic market, and it is working domestically, as anyone can see. that is why it was important for us not to introduce a single tariff for all roaming contracts in the european union, but to set a ceiling to prevent abuse. the council considered it very important that the ceilings should not fall below a certain level, so that a correspondingly dynamic market develops below these limits. we hope that the companies, but also the consumers below this eurotariff, will engage in a sensible market behaviour, that there will be more variety in the offers and that consumer behaviour will also be oriented towards this. the european union has shown its ability to act. the council secretariat will also make every effort to ensure that the regulation is published in the official journal as soon as possible. however, certain time-frames are necessary. there must be a decision-making process in the permanent representatives committee and a formal decision-making process in the council. we hope that we will be able to achieve a publication in the official journal on 29 june with the corresponding effect into the summer break. i would be delighted if we could achieve broad agreement on our compromise here today in the plenary. i promise, as president of the council, to do everything possible to ensure that this also happens in the council, so that we can present a europe of results before an important european summit.
thank you very much, mr wuermeling. it is a pleasure for this house to have you here again, albeit in a different role, but still serving the interests of europe.
on behalf of the green group, madam commissioner, thank you for your courageous work, thank you mr rübig, we have arrived at port, we have a commitment and we have set a historic precedent. we have acted here in the european parliament with unusual unity to break a taboo. the taboo of regulating the market at european level in such an important field as telecommunications. yes, in this process we have given a practical example to the european citizens of what the european union is for. we support the compromise even though it falls short in some respects for consumers. because in the face of the scandalous theft from users, who pay outrageous fees and are not even informed of what they are paying, the european parliament has stood up. we have stood up for the consumers. we have reached a compromise which is fair, but not entirely fair to consumers. there will be lower prices for most, but they could have been much lower. there will be much more transparency and information. it could only have been better for existing customers, but during the negotiations and during the trilogue some of the most positive aspects of the european institutions were seen and some of the most negative. in this debate two opposing positions have been put forward. on the one hand, parliament has generally defended the interests of its voters, the consumers, and on the other hand the position of the council - the member states - which has defended tooth and nail the commercial interests of the big operators, the national champions, the telecommunications and telephone companies. why have members, who represent the same majorities as their governments in the council, in the member states, taken such distant, such distant positions? we certainly need the same transparency - and light and shorthand - that we have here in this house, in the council, because there - in the council - the stifling pressure of the industrial lobbies has weighed heavily on this issue and limited the ability to reach an even better agreement. well, we support this deal as an advance. it is a breakthrough that sets the precedent for the ability to regulate a market that has not been able to regulate itself fairly. parliament is leading the way here. we also have to learn from this experience to create european institutions that are increasingly transparent, more open and more accessible to the interests of the majority of citizens.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for the courage she has shown in tackling a problem affecting consumers. i know that the commissioner has shown great concern for consumers and has also gone into a field which is always subject to much criticism, such as direct intervention in prices set for the market. she's decided to take on this challenge, and let's see how it works. in short, before explaining my position, i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job, and the council, which has managed very efficiently, after a relatively short time, to get this document ready for a vote in parliament. the problem we face is basically this: history tells us that intervention at the level of market prices almost always leads to unintended consequences and creates additional problems, whether prices do not fall, whether the cost of what is being reduced or what is not gained in that sector is passed on to other sectors in the same sphere. for example, there is some concern now: to what extent will there be a transfer of costs of domestic calls, i.e. to what extent will companies raise certain costs of domestic calls to the consumer. i think, madam commissioner, and i would also like to put this to the council, that it is very important that this process be monitored, not only in terms of the number of international calls but also in terms of the development of national markets in terms of costs. this will really give us the dimension and the consequences that this regulation and these decisions that we are now taking will ultimately have.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr vice-president of the commission, we are completing the stage which was started in maastricht and then - i remember it as president - the dutch proposal, the lubbers-kok proposal, was too federalist. now you come with an absolutely opposite position. these are things that happen in family life and we're willing to build bridges. you've made four conditions. on codecision and national parliaments, i agree with jean-luc dehaene: the red card of national parliaments to governments, not to the european institutions. we are willing to improve our cooperation. the new questions that have been added are contained in paragraph 12 of our motion for a resolution. we agree on that. on the subject of public services, you convince your in-laws. but there is a fundamental problem: to open the treaty to amendments rather than to its structure is to dismantle everything and to go against the transparency and understanding of the citizens. one more thing, mr president, about the anthem: the other day in my constituency i explained to my countrymen that the dutch national anthem, 'wilhelmus', pays homage to the king of spain. they said, "how nice the dutch are!" when i later told them, "and they speak cruel spanish", they said, "that's a football problem". so i say one thing: this hymn thing is very complicated and i'm sticking with the hymn of joy.
the president of the council. i believe that the european union has always referred to the list of criteria i have just quoted in its discussions with turkey. it has also shown ways of supporting the country in the past and of bringing about appropriate developments in the country. i believe that the european union must be able to expect that the framework necessary for accession will be respected and that it will eventually become clear to the actors in turkey itself that it is the primacy of politics and not the primacy of the military to decide this. you know - and this is an important point - that in the course of these disputes the constitutional court of turkey has also been called upon. this is the path that the european union has also indicated that the country must take. i think that's all that can be done at the moment.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this does not mean that we cannot observe critical developments and comment on them in dialogue. turkey is aware of this and there is no reason for the presidency to cancel any forthcoming talks or accession conferences with turkey at this time. the second point i would like to make is that this is not just about observation. how else can the european union, which has set the framework, but in dialogue, point out turkey's obligations and the criteria it must meet? it is not that the present government, which is ultimately responsible for the country, has changed the criteria. in fact, other groups in the country have threatened to intervene if they don't like a particular outcome. you have to distinguish who is responsible for the country. we believe that this is still the democratically elected government.
the president of the council. i would like to refer to the explanations already given to an oral question by the honourable member at question time in april and would like to emphasize once again that the presidency attaches great importance to the continuous improvement of integrated border control at the external borders of the european union and in particular to the strengthening of the southern maritime external borders. in this context, the council already underlined in its conclusions on the reinforcement of the southern sea border of 5 and 6 october 2006 the need to strengthen frontex by additional staff and an increase in budgetary resources. in order to improve frontex's ability to respond immediately to emergency situations, the commission presented a proposal in 2006 to set up rapid reaction teams for border security purposes. the council successfully consulted the european parliament on this proposal and the european parliament voted on the text of this proposal on 26 april 2007 so that it can be adopted by the council at first reading. the presidency is seeking to have the text adopted by the council in the coming weeks so that the instrument can be applied in the forthcoming summertime period. according to its 2007 work programme, frontex will launch a series of joint operations at maritime borders in addition to the creation of the european patrol network. the number and location of joint operations shall be decided by the frontex management board. finally, the council stressed that the commission would submit a report to the council before the end of 2007 on the agency's evaluation, in line with the hague programme, which was adopted by the european council on 4 november 2004.
the president has recalled my question of last april. the frontex system is effective, but the big problem is the interruption. a mere interruption of a couple of weeks has led in recent weeks to the arrival of some one thousand and five immigrants to the canary islands, with all the situation that this drama entails. we are concerned that this system should be permanent and i hope that it will be achieved, through the measures announced by the president of the council, that this system should be permanent, since every day or week of its absence can mean the death of hundreds of people in the waters of the atlantic.
the president of the council. - i'm not sure. the fact that the commission and the council give the same answer three times does not mean that the commission and the council have given an incorrect or incomplete answer. that's the legal situation. but i have taken from your question the political question of how to bring relief to the citizens of the frozen conflicts in these regions, such as in georgia or - as the honourable member has just said - in other countries. these are the questions we are then negotiating in the special relations, for example with the georgians in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. i am quite clear that in the area of the special relationship between the eu and ukraine or belarus in the specific case, we must always try to reach agreements in accordance with the provisions of the european union and the schengen regime.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i believe we are at an important moment in the history of this parliament. the rapporteur, mr gargani, chairman of the committee on legal affairs, has set out the legal arguments which we support. my group has tabled a number of amendments aimed at reinforcing this kind of legal reasoning. but it would be helpful to look at the matter from a slightly broader perspective. the european parliament - the committee on legal affairs - has always recognised the decisions of national authorities regarding the recruitment of a member of parliament and has even recognised contentious electoral procedures. what cannot happen is that, almost three years after the last elections, one year after mr occhetto was accepted as a member of this parliament, suddenly an italian court comes to us and says that this appointment was invalid. mr gargani has explained the reasons from a legal point of view, but there is a fundamental political element: parliament is made up of members appointed in accordance with national law, by means of pronouncements made by national authorities: administrative, electoral or judicial. but once we are in this parliament, parliament is an entity of its own, with its own personality, which has the right to defend itself. the occhetto case will be a great parliamentary precedent. because from now on the national administrative or judicial authorities will know that parliament has the power, at a given moment, to consider that the national decision is not in accordance with the law, that it has been arbitrary. and parliament has the right and the duty to protect its members. if we do not do this, we risk the risk that you, mr president, or any other member of this parliament, by an arbitrary decision of a national authority or a national court, will deprive each of us of our parliamentary status. and one of the essences of parliamentary work is that members of parliament must feel confident in carrying out their work. i think mr gargani has done a great job as president - we have discussed many issues for many years - and in this case we have an agreement which includes all the parties, which does not respond to a partisan interest, but responds to the need to defend the statute of the european parliament as such. the european parliament, this body representing the peoples of europe, is constituted as an independent body by its own decision. it is not like the council which depends on the avatars of national politics. we have a mandate, a fixed term mandate, which cannot be interrupted by an arbitrary national decision. i therefore believe that the occhetto decision, i repeat, will be a historic decision in the history of parliament, in the history of the assertion of the personality of parliament and of the rights of members.
on behalf of the green group, mr. president, first of all, i'm sorry for the result of the football match. for the record, liverpool is also a bit ours because we have a lot of spaniards in the team. i would like to thank mr gierek for his work on innovation, because innovation is a great challenge for the european union, for the economy, for people, for communities, for territorial cohesion. i would like to stress the importance of the emphasis on programmes such as the eureka programme, which benefits small businesses. also the promotion of initiatives like the eurostar initiative is important for small businesses and the whole concept of clusters of creating networks of small businesses, encouraged, to share information, to have public support, can be a shared goal of the whole european union. because we are facing a fundamental change in the community: from the creation of concrete motorways to the creation of information motorways; instead of devoting almost all our european funds to cement, we are devoting them to knowledge. and that is important when we think about where to allocate funds or a large part of the structural and regional funds. i was in poland recently and i wanted to share my experience of trying to divert more and more funds towards research, innovation, infrastructure, not just heavy infrastructure, but intelligence infrastructure. because at the same time the issue of intellectual property is of great importance. if we build impenetrable walls to scientific and technical information, we can also kill the requirement for creating a dense economic and cultural network. we can deny access to the information needed for innovation. patent accumulation should not be confused with innovation. because, contrary to what some people say, we are currently attracting in europe a lot of venture capital attracted by a less strict intellectual property regime. we should not make the mistake of copying the patent system of the united states when, at present, that country is rethinking the patent system completely because it is too expensive and because it encourages the creation of patents themselves, of creating patent cartels to protect what one has to conquer new innovations. we are fully in favour of integrating the european patent office into the european institutions and placing it under democratic control. we also believe that real, physical patents, which could encourage innovation, should be patented. but we must not follow this false idea that intellectual property is an end in itself. i'm not sure. intellectual property has to be at the service of the imagination. and the priority has to be sharing. the priority has to be to create spaces of creative tension where information can be shared to create a better world and create a better social fabric.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, we are witnessing a pulse between the polish government and the european institutions. european environmental law has to be applied. the habitats directive exists to be enforced. there's gonna be a before and an after on this issue. either we are serious about community law, or we are serious about the application and use of european funds in major infrastructures, or the whole thing will gradually become wet paper. i have had the pleasure of visiting this beautiful and unique area called the rospuda valley, and i can say that this project is absurd. this project is even technically almost impossible because of the marshy area it has to cross. i can say at the same time that there are clear alternatives which are even more feasible, more economical and could serve the same purpose as this road. the people who suffered the truck-passing in augustów in eastern poland are hostages to a political game being played by the polish government on other issues. it is a political pulse with the european commission, which joins other political issues. it is the people and nature of the area who will suffer the consequences. in addition, the alternatives to this forest road are backed up by the preliminary study, the strategic environmental study, prepared by the consultancy scott wilson, a very prestigious international consultancy. so it is not true that there is only the alternative of this road by the baltic route through the valley of rospuda or nothing. i'm not at all. what is at stake is the seriousness of this parliament and the seriousness of european environmental legislation. i hope that there will be firmness on the part of the european commission, and firmness in the form of not handing over more regional funds until poland realizes that being part of the european club also means playing by the rules.
in writing. mr president, i would like to explain my vote on mr gierek's report on innovation. i voted in favour, because the rapporteur has done a difficult and necessary job on a subject which is essential to achieving the lisbon objectives, but which is still our unfinished business. to become an advanced knowledge-based society, we must not only be strong in technological research and development, that is, in the capacity to generate, absorb, assimilate and transmit to society and to enterprises new knowledge and skills, but we must also be strong in the capacity to transform this knowledge into wealth and social welfare and this is innovation. not all eu countries are on the same level in terms of the indicators that define a knowledgebased society, nor in terms of the effort to innovate. reducing these differences would have a knock-on effect for everyone. innovation is probably the only instrument which makes it possible, within a relatively short time, to achieve such important objectives as: 1) improving the quality and competitiveness of our enterprises; 2) making economic growth compatible with the preservation of the environment, quality of life and social cohesion; 3) innovation allows the maintenance of traditional sectors; 4) and, of course, innovation can contribute to substantially improving working conditions and also the integration of certain groups, such as people with disabilities. the most recent economic analyses establish a direct link between research, development and innovation effort and productivity, which is especially interesting for most of our countries with economies based on the service sector, which have perhaps productivity as one of their greatest weaknesses. all of this is covered to a greater or lesser extent in the report and that is why i voted in favour of it.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i rise in this house to defend press freedom: here, in venezuela and anywhere in the world. the socialist group has supported a motion for a resolution, which was basically tabled by the green group with some amendments, and we continue to support it in this house. we are doing this because, as the previous speakers have just said, there are elections in venezuela. mrs frassoni and i were there, representing the european union in the last electoral process, and we saw that it was a fair electoral process. in venezuela, there is freedom of the press. it is true that it is not good that the freedom of the press is restricted and we should be concerned about anything of this nature, but we also have to recognize that the government of venezuela is a democratic government, there are jurisdictional guarantees. intervention from here could therefore be interpreted as an interference by the european union in the internal affairs of a country which is in a rather delicate situation. venezuela is a country divided into two at the moment and the last thing we should do is contribute to the confrontation between venezuelans. the role of this parliament and the european union must be to act in a friendly manner with the venezuelan authorities, society and political forces to prevent this conflict from degenerating into a worse situation.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, we have said it and we must insist on it: freedom of expression is not only a fundamental right, it is the guarantee of democracy. it is therefore necessary to deplore, if not to combat, any attempt to limit or undermine it, wherever it may take place. this is precisely what is shown in the joint resolution that we, the greens/efa, pse and gue/ngl groups, have tabled, in which two fundamental demands are made: firstly, that the venezuelan state guarantee media pluralism and non-concentration as a mechanism to promote freedom of expression; and secondly, that the venezuelan media, both public and private, be called upon to deal with information on electoral policy in an objective and impartial manner. the resolution also takes note of the announcement by the venezuelan government that it will strictly abide by the decisions taken by the judiciary, and we add: it would be good if all parties did exactly the same. i think that this resolution is very well balanced and consistent with the principles of freedom of expression and media pluralism. i can therefore only understand the alternative proposal put forward by the ppe-de, alde and uen groups for reasons of spanish internal politics, motivated by a motive which has nothing to do with the substantive question we are discussing and by political opportunism which i regret has also occurred on other occasions in this house. it is obvious that the basic facts, for example, that the non-renewal of the licence is only for vhf and not for broadcasts made by cable, uhf, satellite or the internet. it is not a question here of deciding whether we are more or less in favour of hugo chávez or whether we are more or less sympathetic to him: that is not the question. what we're dealing with is freedom of speech, but please, no demagoguery.
of all the horrors that can be inflicted on a human being, death by stoning is undoubtedly the most incompressible and, in all light, unacceptable. the case before us today, the sentencing to death by stoning of sadia idris fadul and amouna abdallah daldoum, has two equally important dimensions. on the one hand, it obliges us to reiterate once again our opposition to the death penalty as a form of punishment under any circumstances, and on the other hand, it places us once again in the face of blatant discrimination on grounds of gender, since the sentence in question is based on an alleged crime - adultery - considered as such only in the case of women, but not in the case of men. it is not enough to demand compliance with international law on the use of the death penalty against minors, nor is it enough to urge all countries which still use the death penalty to relegate it to the legal and political history. in this case, we must also bring to the table a situation of overt machismo or, what is the same, of targeted killings in the name of patriarchy. what we are facing, when we are dealing with these types of sentences that only affect women, is a devaluation of women's lives compared to men's. this is not acceptable, not in sudan or in any other country in the world. i therefore welcome the very high level of consensus on this resolution and hope that it will contribute to ending not only the death penalty but also the different value given to the lives of men and women.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to present the joint report drawn up by mr brok and myself, two members who come from different countries, who belong to different political groups, but who express the reiterated wish of this parliament that the constitutional treaty should go ahead and be able to be a major strengthening of our european union immediately after the berlin declaration on the occasion of the 50th anniversary. what we are saying, in essence, is that we have drawn up for the first time, in public debate and jointly, a constitutional treaty that was signed in rome in october 2004. at the moment, two thirds of the states have ratified the treaty - 18 states - four more have declared their intention to ratify it, there are two states where referendums were overwhelmingly against the constitutional treaty and three states which have not yet taken a decision on it. we believe we should continue our work after the reflection period. and our proposal is basically to support the efforts being made by the german presidency to convene an intergovernmental conference at the next european council, with a clear and precise mandate that, on the basis of the existing treaties, the constitutional treaty, can proceed to find a way of agreement so that we can continue to work together. we, who have been committed from the beginning, believe that the constitutional treaty actually has two parts: part i, which is made up of parts i and ii, or part iv, and which is the result of the work of the convention; and then there is part iii, where what has been done is to collect and reassemble the existing treaties and - something important for the european parliament - to increase the legal bases for codecision from 36 to 87. and then we think we can come up with a formula that will really allow us to move forward. moreover, given that the reflection period has been fruitful and that we do not live in a glass bell but in the world, there are a number of issues that come up today, such as climate change, energy solidarity, immigration, adapting our social model to an autumn demography and globalisation, the fight against international terrorism, dialogue between civilizations and the strengthening of economic governance in the euro area, which can enable us to enrich and respond to the concerns of citizens. that is the message, in essence, that we are putting forward. and we believe - and this is a clear message to the council - that after the convention, the fate of europe cannot be discussed behind closed doors. we have already taken the step of having a public debate. (applause) so, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we ask - and i hope that the president will defend us as he has always done in this area - to have an active presence at the intergovernmental conference, we also propose formulas which will allow us to know precisely what the council and the commission are proposing and thinking - and we invite them to be very active - and also the governments in order to make progress. at this moment, mr president, we believe that the important thing is not only to send a message of hope but, recalling an old proverb, to say that 'the road is made by walking' and that we must continue to move forward together, because that is what our public opinion expects, because that is what we have agreed and because it is also the duty we have, not only to ourselves but to the rest of humanity, insofar as we are at this moment building in europe the first supranational democracy based on states and citizens, which has enabled us europeans to have peace and prosperity - we celebrated it in march - but we must also be allowed to be a political organisation at the forefront in democratic terms with a view to the future of humanity. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, mr barón crespo and mr brok, and the committee on constitutional affairs for this report, and for your work, which adds a major contribution to this very crucial period that we are in. the commission welcomes your report and shares its main thrust. two years after the launch of the reflection period, the world is still changing and the political context has kept changing. the european union has been able to find a new consensus on some highly political dossiers and issues, such as agreeing a new financial package for the years to come. however, the difficulties that the constitutional treaty was addressing have basically not been solved. the union is still not able to speak with a single voice in the world arena. we still need to improve democracy, efficiency and the transparency of this union. we have to ensure a better delivery on key policy areas such as migration or climate change. that is why we are deeply convinced that treaty changes are still necessary. we also believe that there is a strong need to communicate better with the citizens on a new treaty review exercise. this exercise is not about building european construction for its own sake, but about being able to address the increasingly globalised political environment and deliver on policies that really matter to our citizens. moving towards a treaty settlement will be the key issue of the european council. the german presidency has made a huge effort in the past months to build a new consensus among the member states and the european institutions. we support those efforts and we hope that the european council will be able to agree on the launch of a new intergovernmental conference. however, we must be very careful: the constitutional treaty is a compromise which at this stage is difficult to improve but easy to unravel. therefore, for new negotiations to be successful, the intergovernmental conference needs a to have a clear and stringent mandate and a clear goal in mind, i.e. a new treaty to be in force before the 2009 european elections. the commission will continue to play a central part in reaching a solution. if an intergovernmental conference is to be launched, we will be ready to bring forward our opinion in early july. a new solution should be able to command a true and durable consensus. it should be able to strike a balance between the voices of those who have already ratified the constitutional treaty and those who have not. however, keeping a high level of ambition is also essential. a lowest common denominator solution might bring short-term relief, but it could compound problems in the future. simply introducing minor institutional changes in the treaty of nice will therefore not be sufficient. the constitutional treaty was the fruit of a detailed examination by the convention; it is the result of a careful compromise agreed by all the heads of state and government and endorsed by the european parliament. as far as the substance is concerned, the major part of that work remains valid. the innovations introduced by the constitutional treaty are still pertinent and they need to be translated into reality. the community method must be protected, including the commission’s right of initiative. the single-pillar structure and the single legal personality are tangible instruments to enhance the union’s capacity to act in a global world. advances in qualified majority voting and, in general, the enhanced role of the european parliament should not be questioned. the constitutional treaty also provides a very good solution on how to involve the national parliaments and it strikes a good balance between the role of the national parliaments and that of the european parliament. the commission also remains deeply attached to the binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights and to the substantial innovations on the policies set out in the constitutional treaty. there must be no dilution of the single market, but we are open to examining new ideas for developments in certain policy areas in order to face new or reinforce key policy challenges, such as sustainable development, migration or energy. the commission shares the view that the european parliament should be closely associated with the coming intergovernmental conference, at least matching the involvement it enjoyed in the previous igc. together we should also continue intensively our efforts to engage citizens and civil society in an effective dialogue about the future of europe. together we ought to explain to citizens what is at stake and why a new treaty settlement is necessary to make the union capable of facing the challenges of the age of globalisation. this will be even more important in the crucial phase which will begin on the basis of the european council decisions, and i look forward to working closely with you to make this a reality. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. madam president, in a hemingway story called "the old man and the sea", the protagonist fights a merlin to bring it to port. it's a titanic struggle. but when he finally manages to reach port, the prey is gone, leaving the fish with only its spines. this, mr president-in-office of the council, is what this parliament does not want to happen with the constitutional treaty. we commend the german presidency for wanting to reach an agreement, but we want to make it clear that we want an agreement, but not just any agreement. that is why we have made it clear in the report drawn up by mr barón crespo and mr brok what we consider to be the essential content of the constitutional treaty which this agreement should contain: we have said so in paragraph 9. we also say that we must listen to everyone, but not just to those who want less europe (because there are some who just want less europe). do not just listen to them, listen also to those who want to improve the constitutional treaty. because all you hear is talk of sales, like the spring sales have arrived at the department stores. it is possible that an intergovernmental conference could improve the constitutional treaty: for example, by incorporating issues that were not on the table five years ago, such as climate change, energy or solidarity in energy matters, or, for example, by defining the functions of the coordinator of the anti-terrorist struggle, a matter of great importance today, after eta's announcement that it will kill again. so that plus is possible and we encourage you, mr president-in-office of the council, to make that plus. as the president of parliament has said before, we want to help you, and we want the european parliament to be present at this intergovernmental conference as well. we do not want to replace them, of course, but in paragraph 12 of the report we define the modalities of the presence of this parliament. finally, mr president-in-office of the council, this parliament will judge the outcome of the intergovernmental conference in relation to the constitutional treaty, and we tell you that in paragraph 11. we will not shake our hand in rejecting it if the agreement reached at the intergovernmental conference does not live up to expectations. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, we have to make europe stronger politically. that is one of the main tasks of the european parliament. for the european free alliance, ‘more’ europe means more opportunities for freedom for stateless nations, constitutional regions and national minorities. europe is the main field in which we can work and be together. for this reason, we need not only a treaty, but also a constitution for europe in the future. therefore, we must support a reform of the treaty in order to make europe stronger and to make the concept of european citizenship a common goal for all europeans. for that reason, in future the eu has to speak with a single voice on key issues, such as immigration, security, climate change and employment.
we will not tire of repeating that the european constitution is not the problem, but the solution. i think that those of us who were at the convention can say that the constitution we drew up there is, in fact, the best possible solution. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. now, what is at stake - and that is the purpose of the barón and brok report - is to save it; not to confuse it, not to confuse it, not to turn it into a 'thing' by taking a word from italian politics. we need a constitution, not some indefinable "thing". and for that i think we have to take into account three aspects. first, the message. look, i don't like it when it's called "the constitution". i don't like the symbols being taken off. i don't even like it when it's changed in a way that makes it incomprehensible. but, well, if there's no other way to do that, at least save the contents. it includes something that is too often forgotten: the extension of codecision and the charter of fundamental rights. and also, in terms of procedure, do we in this parliament realise that we are talking about a process to save the constitution that has enough secrecy, that has too much intergovernmental? after all, we're talking about what we want, but we often don't know what they're talking about. and i think that the european parliament should clearly address itself to the governments by saying what this report says, but it should also address itself to the national parliaments. if we reject the igc's result, we will ask those parliaments to do the same. let's be consistent, at least this time, with ourselves.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the high representative for his tireless efforts for peace, you yourself; you, mr president, for your visit to the region, for what it has to symbolize and for what it has to offer in solidarity; and commissioner ferrero-waldner for the unprecedented task that the european commission is undertaking in the midst of a serious political crisis, with the factions that make up the government of national unity now facing each other and in the midst of a very serious social, economic and humanitarian crisis. what can be done about this? i think that is very little more than what mrs ferrero-waldner and mr solana have told us: to redouble the european union's diplomatic efforts and to act on the basis of two premises. the first is that the internal struggles between the two factions that make up the government of national unity, faced in a blatant struggle for power, which is dramatically affecting the civilian population, must cease. and secondly, mr president - and this must also be said very clearly - an unwavering and explicit commitment by the government of national unity to democracy and the renunciation of violence. in the meantime, mr president, what can we do? commissioner ferrero-waldner has made this very clear: try to apply the humanitarian aid mechanism with maximum flexibility, increase its allocation and redistribute it among other priorities. mr. president, the maximum sentence under the penal code of my country is thirty years and one day. mr solana reminded us today that 40 years ago the six day war, in which gaza, the west bank and the golan heights were occupied, ended. and the situation remains enmeshed and bogged down. forty years is more than one society - or two societies, as mr solana said - can tolerate in terms of suffering and death. i believe that this parliament must respond unitedly in support of the representatives of the council and the commission so that the european union, in the midst of the international community in general and the quartet in particular, does everything possible to give - as mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner said - a new chance to peace in the midst of a society and a region which has already suffered too much.
on behalf of the green group, israel won the six-day war, but has lost peace with forty years of occupation. we now see that there is a dangerous trend towards the iraqification or tribalization of violence in the middle east. the emergence of fatah al-islam in the palestinian camps of lebanon and the growing fragmentation of the civil conflicts in gaza do not bode well for the future of the region. we see the palestinian problem externalized throughout the middle east as it mixes with the conflicting interests of different actors. we run the risk of hitting rock bottom too soon. are we going to wait passively for the palestinian authority to collapse? like i said, we can't allow that. what are we gonna do to stop this from happening? is it a foretold death, chaos and violence of the war of all against all? gaza can wait no longer. the european union cannot continue to turn its back on the democratically elected palestinian unity government. this european policy has contributed to the popular discredit of any hint of moderation on the part of hamas and fatah, because it shows that acceptance of the mecca agreement does not change the embargo at all or improve the terrible living conditions in the huge prison called gaza. first, the european union must enter into a dialogue with all parties, including hamas, to promote a stable unity government. secondly, we must resume direct financial aid to the palestinian authority and get israel to return the palestinian tax money it keeps. and finally, we must work towards extending the ceasefire from gaza to the west bank, by building up international guarantees, by sending european and arab troops under a un mandate to gaza and, if necessary, to the west bank. we also call for the release of the 45 members of parliament and the israeli gilad shalit and for an end to the launching of the kassam rockets, which are israel's overwhelming response. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i think we can congratulate ourselves on the consensus reached by the groups in this house on the text we are going to put to the vote tomorrow for the fifth session of the united nations human rights council. the council's work has not been easy since it was set up. it is therefore important that the european parliament should once again show itself to be coherent, once again, on how to proceed in general with the promotion and safeguarding of human rights and, in particular, on how to facilitate and improve the work of the united nations human rights council. the balance sheet of its activities shows some deficits which must be addressed and which are based on two problems, basically. on the one hand, the weakness and inadequacy of the responses to dramatic and urgent questions which call for much more vigorous action. i am referring, first of all, to the dramatic situation in darfur, which should keep us all on our guard and alert. secondly, the need to improve substantially the council's own internal mechanisms and to speed up the dynamics of relations between the member countries in order to work more effectively and more ambitiously. both of these issues underlie a fundamental issue on which parliament and the european union can do important work. i am referring to political differences, which must not interfere with the common, unwavering commitment to substantially reduce the vulnerability of the world's populations to human rights abuses and violations. this is a crucial aspect, because europe must be at the forefront of the equal treatment that must be given to all countries as far as human rights dialogue is concerned. we believe that this philosophy should be spread in the council and that the forthcoming romanian presidency of the un human rights council can be a good opportunity for these imperatives for improvement to be realised.
on behalf of the green group, the human rights council was born as a substitute for the commission on human rights and faced the challenge, not easy, of not falling into excessive politicization and governmental interference in something as important as ensuring universal respect for human rights. however, the progress made so far, at least in this area, is at least worrying. just yesterday we heard jody williams, the human rights council's special rapporteur for darfur, lament the enormous pressure she was under to make her report, she said, acceptable to all. we all know what this means. it means eliminating or at least toning down criticism, keeping the tone to a minimum so as not to be uncomfortable. but the most serious thing is that these requests were made in order not to jeopardize the continuity of the council. we are in a bad way if a structure like the human rights council gives priority to its own survival instead of what should be its first and foremost responsibility: to ensure the protection of human rights in the world, which implies, among other things, pointing out those responsible for violations, even if these are governments, or mainly if these are governments. the council's first anniversary is a time to take these risks very seriously if we do not want the council to become just another structure that serves to cover up the shame of those who constantly violate the most fundamental human rights, inside and outside its borders. with this resolution, which was adopted unanimously by the european parliament and which i welcome, we urge the council, and we also encourage it, to take a strong leadership role in the fifth session of the human rights council, which we know will not be easy. but there are at least two issues we would like to see highlighted in your management. first, to ensure that the special rapporteurs are chosen on the basis of their independence and capacity and that they can continue to function also as independent rapporteurs. secondly, the universal periodic reviews should also include the participation of independent experts. only then can we guarantee the credibility of this council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have been bombarded with images of the desperate situation and deaths of migrants. once again these images reflect the most dramatic and visible face of illegal immigration. they once again reflect a reiterated humanitarian emergency to which an immediate and forceful response must be given. this situation is not going to stop on its own. more than 9 000 people have already died trying to cross the mediterranean and this figure will continue to rise as the weather improves. in the past week the authorities of a member state have failed to fulfil their basic international obligations with regard to the rescue and reception of shipwrecked persons. it is not enough to condemn the state for its unacceptable attitude and ask it to take responsibility so that this situation does not happen again. nor can we expect to delegate the fight against illegal immigration to the captains of the fishing fleets. we are not facing a maltese problem: it is a european problem to which we must give a global response in solidarity with all of us. i would like to stress that all member states share responsibility, transparency and mutual trust. i therefore call on the council, the commission and this house to take immediate and concrete measures to put an end to this unacceptable situation. frontex must not be a mirage and must have the resources to ensure that joint surveillance patrols are permanently operated throughout the year in high-risk areas. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to debate and fight among europeans while immigrants continue to drown. let's move now.
i would like to begin by congratulating the commissioner on taking his responsibility in this matter. i hope it's not just a word, although it's certainly a good thing to start with a word. it is absolutely intolerable that we can let a group of human beings die while the governments and bureaucracies of different states argue over who is obliged to save shipwrecked people who are dying of starvation, drowning, in the sun... malta has its obligations and its attitude has been intolerable and deserves condemnation. but the union must be able, of course, to support malta today, spain, the canary islands yesterday, or wherever tomorrow, when it saves the lives of those who want to join the european union. summer begins, and with it, the human stream returns, of those who want to go to london or hamburg to fulfill their dreams, but they will die on the beaches of the south. that's the message to be conveyed. these days we are in the midst of a debate on the future of europe, on what we want and what we can do together. the european union is given legitimacy in areas such as this. and i'm not just talking about credibility, i'm talking about legitimacy, and i'm not just talking about the credibility of the people. the legitimacy of the european union may also be lost here. what union is there among us that can organise and regulate all sorts of issues - some of which many of our citizens consider absurd, even stupid - and that is incapable of organising things so that those who try to reach our borders do not die, those who try to enter our castles do not die, but instead die at the gates of the wall? mr vice-president, you have a historic challenge, a political and historic challenge. you have a responsibility to promote solidarity, but if solidarity does not come out, you have a responsibility to impose it. and it is in your power to do so. solidarity, if it does not come out, will have to be imposed by you: imposed politically, imposed by shaming those states which do not assume their responsibilities and imposed by force with legislative proposals so that each one bears his responsibility before the present and before history, with so many deaths attributed to governments which do not assume their role.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are dealing today with three cases which mark a very important step forward in crossborder police cooperation in the field of european internal policy. this concerns first of all the prüm treaty, which was originally an international treaty between a few member states - there were seven at the beginning, ten more states have joined it so far. this treaty has led to the networking of national dna and fingerprint databases and vehicle registers for the first time in europe. we have thus laid the foundations for a modern police information network in europe, while maintaining a high standard of data protection. this treaty between some member states is now being transferred to the european level. it will be integrated into the legal framework of the european union and apply in all 27 member states in terms of its core elements. we are not only contributing to the safety of european citizens, because the experience gained in comparing dna between a few countries has already led to the identification of criminals and the prosecution of serious crimes. we are also helping to strengthen the european union's capacity to act, because it is right that this treaty should not be treated in accordance with international law in the future but should become part of our common european legal framework. i would like to thank all the member states, but also the european commission and the members of the european parliament who have helped to make the prüm treaty possible despite a very tight timeframe. we will also take due account of the opinions of the european parliament in the transposition and implementation of the directive. we will decide next week on the visa information system, on which we reached political agreement with the european parliament in may. after agreement at astv level, there is a good chance that the council will confirm the access decision next week. a formal agreement will be reached when the linguistic examination is completed. the visa information system is a particularly important instrument for strengthening the area of freedom, security and justice. we will use it to store and retrieve alphanumeric and biometric data in the visa process. this will help us to better combat multiple visa applications, identity theft and other fraudulent activities. the vis access decision shall also allow the security authorities to consult the vis for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences. these newly created investigative capabilities of the security authorities will make a decisive step forward in future in the protection against international terrorism and organised crime. i would like to stress that the agreement we have reached with the european parliament is a very balanced agreement which brings the various arguments put forward into a reasonable balance. if we are to improve police cooperation in europe in the way that these two measures will, and thereby increase the security of our citizens, we must also ensure that data protection is given a prominent place in the european union and that the misuse of data transferred between member states is prevented and effectively combated. i am therefore very pleased that in recent weeks we have made important progress on the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar, that we have been able to discuss a new draft in two readings in the council working group in agreement with the rapporteur of the european parliament, and that we have significantly reduced the number of reservations that in the past have prevented rapid progress. this new revised design ensures a high level of protection. the level of protection of council of europe convention no 108 of 1981 and the additional protocol of 2001 will be fully ensured. we shall also find reasonable solutions to the questions of scope and the third country regime. the european parliament has made a very important contribution to this, and i would therefore like to thank the presidency once again for the extremely rapid handling of the revised draft. we are on the way to finding good solutions, particularly with regard to the adequacy of the level of data protection in third countries and the introduction of a system of forwarding to non-public bodies. i also believe that the evaluation clause proposed by the european parliament in terms of scope is a very constructive solution and we will use the remaining period of the german presidency to make further progress. the commissioner frattini's 15 principles on data protection have helped us to identify the essential points at issue. we will propose a declaration of intent in the council and will promote the proper consideration of these principles in the further course of the discussions.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have little to add to what mr altmaier has said on behalf of the council. on the first of the subjects in this debate, i can say that we have supported from the outset the initiative of the german presidency to transfer most of the provisions of the third pillar of the prüm treaty into the system of european legislation. this will facilitate and strengthen crossborder cooperation between police authorities and will certainly facilitate an absolutely indispensable element if we are to strengthen the security of the european area, namely the exchange of information necessary for the prevention and suppression of crime. of course, this exercise is also based on demonstrating the usefulness of the provisions of the treaty where they are already applied. we have had the opportunity to read an interesting report from the presidency on how the implementation of the prüm treaty is working with positive and surprising results between germany and austria: the commission has already discovered serious criminal liability through the use of certain provisions of this treaty. there's one important aspect: the application of the principle of availability, i.e. the exchange of information facilitating the flow of information, must be accompanied by appropriate protection of personal data. in the event of misuse, there must be clear rules of prevention to prevent this from happening. i think it is important that the council confirms its decision, which has already been taken by the presidency and which i very much welcome. i am confident that it will be adopted next week in luxembourg. it contains a clear reference to the protection of personal data, because unfortunately we do not have the framework decision on data protection in this area. it is therefore clear that the council decision itself, which transposes the articles of the prüm treaty into the european acquis, must take account of data protection, just as it is a prerequisite for making the exchange of information compatible. a final aspect of the decision concerns periodic evaluation. it will be an important assessment, both of the operational effectiveness, that is, of how this set of provisions will work, and of the operation of the safeguard clauses. this assessment will also be useful to parliament, which will of course be informed. i can only congratulate mrs ludford, the rapporteur, and the presidency on the visa information system and congratulate them on the joint effort to reach a good agreement. a good agreement will somehow be useful in meeting both the security requirements demanded by many governments and the needs of personal data protection: these are non-negotiable rights for the european union! at the consulates, at the border posts, we will have better tools that will work better and be available to honest travellers, while allowing the police to identify serious cases of violation of the law. the rules on data protection have been firmly embedded in the visa information system agreement. these rules, including those on fingerprints, were absolutely necessary. this agreement will enable the commission to develop the technical implementation that will be necessary because, as you know, our objective is to make the vis system operational by spring 2009, in accordance with the timetable. in the operational management of the system there is a specific requirement: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the programme. this technical structure may be proposed operationally within two years of the vis becoming operational, both for the economic implications to be assessed and for the technical impact assessment to be carried out. i'll give you my personal assessment: if there is to be an operational management body, it cannot be limited to the vis alone, it must be a single operational tool for the management of sis ii and vis together, in order to optimise the use of resources and work capacity. the third theme concerns the framework decision on data protection: i should like to thank mr roure again for his report, which gives the council a lot of encouragement. i put forward the proposal back in 2005, i appealed to the council of ministers on several occasions, and today we are moving towards a common solution. on the first point, i repeat my opinion, which is well known: i would like to see these rules on data protection, the third pillar, applied also in the internal legal order of the member states, not just for crossborder data exchange and crossborder cooperation. i therefore agree with mr roure's proposal, but within three years at the latest of the adoption of the framework decision we will have to re-examine its purpose, its scope and therefore perhaps also the possibility of extending these rules to the internal rules. three years is a long enough time. mr roure speaks of an evaluation, this one we are talking about, to harmonize the data protection rules even further. one does not exclude the other, both can be done by taking the opportunity of the report which three years after the entry into force will have to say whether the mechanism has worked, where it can be improved and where it can be further harmonised. on one point all should agree, the need to exclude the use of data for purposes that are not predefined, i.e. personal data can be used for police and security purposes only by indicating first which categories of objectives the security authorities are proceeding with. this is a key principle, and we should be firmly committed to it. the debate on data protection supervisory authorities is still ongoing, and it will certainly require a thorough reflection because the current authorities and the future european authority have very different characteristics, so a more thorough decision is probably necessary. i contributed an idea of 15 basic principles to help facilitate the agreement. i am very pleased that the presidency of the council finds it useful to use the 15 basic principles i have proposed. in conclusion, we can make up for lost time, but we are far behind on this issue.
ladies and gentlemen, if i may, i would like to point out that there was a group of guests in the gallery, a group of men and women known in my country as 'war children'. they were children who between 1936 and 1939 fled spain, from the fascist bombings, were evacuated and found the solidarity and affection of families in belgium and the united kingdom. today, at the age of over 75 years, they have all come to visit parliament, to be among us, and i think it is very important and very exciting that we pay tribute to them and, above all, that we pay tribute to the solidarity of the british and belgian peoples, who welcomed them and gave them the family that they had been denied in their own country.
opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. - mr president, the committee on legal affairs was asked by the committee on civil liberties to examine the legal basis of the proposal for a council decision on the deepening of crossborder cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and international crime. the proposal put forward by the governments which took this initiative was based on two articles: article 30 (a) and (b) concerning operational cooperation, and article 31, and, in addition, article 34 (2) (c). the reference to article 34 (2) (c) and the other references above implied that cooperation measures could be adopted but not legislative approximation measures and in fact the text of the proposal implies legislative approximation measures. the committee on legal affairs considered that the applicable article would not be article 34 (2) (c) but article 34 (2) (b), which allows for the approximation of laws. this proposal from the committee on legal affairs, which was unanimously adopted by the committee on legal affairs, has been accepted by the committee on civil liberties, and i therefore believe that the proposal is correct and that it should be adopted by this parliament.
mr president, for some years now jellyfish have been invading the mediterranean coastlines. many people need to be cared for because of their bites, which cause pain, inflammation, and disorders. in fact, in some places the authorities advise against swimming in the sea. this plague is a symptom of the imbalance suffered by the mediterranean ecosystem. the abuse of certain fishing practices is leading to the disappearance of species such as bluefin tuna, which compete with jellyfish for zooplankton, and loggerhead turtles, which are natural predators. the warming of coastal waters as a result of climate change and their increased salinity as a result of the reduced freshwater supply due to drought also contribute to this overfishing of jellyfish. experts warn that the problem must be addressed immediately, or it will grow every year. the government of my country, spain, is carrying out studies and action plans. we are facing an environmental problem which affects all the coastal states and which requires a community approach. this issue is having a very negative impact on the tourist industry throughout the mediterranean basin and this parliament and the other community institutions should pay more attention to it.
mr president, i too would like to begin by congratulating mrs gibault on this report, which aims to study the problems and difficulties faced by people in the arts in general, in matters such as health, social security, unemployment, retirement and also mobility, and if possible to provide solutions to them. i shall not go into these matters - people before me have done so - but i would like to refer briefly to art studies. firstly, its importance and therefore the need to pay attention to art education from childhood must be emphasized. secondly, i would point out the need for the member states to recognise diplomas and certificates issued by national conservatories or art schools, in order to gradually converge and, if possible, also towards the bologna objectives by 2010. and thirdly, i would like to stress the importance of encouraging regulated artistic studies which are equivalent to other official branches of study recognised by the member states, so that they not only enable pupils to develop their artistic talent but also help them to train and qualify to be competent in other professional fields. the cultural, artistic and entertainment sectors need it, so as not to frustrate the expectations of art students. this requires investment in the cultural fabric, in infrastructure, in the promotion of artistic training and cultural activity. i hope that the member states will give due attention to this report, which can be of great help to these people.
member of the commission. mr president, we are currently in the final and decisive phase for the approval of the reform of the fruit and vegetables sector. we launched the debate on 24 january 2007 and since then we have received lots of very valuable input, not least from the european parliament and the report of mrs salinas garcía. i thank you for this and for your constant support for the general objectives and the general principles of the commission proposal. when considering the substance of your opinion, i have chosen to focus on a few issues to which you have given very special attention. firstly, on producer organisations, it is clear that both the commission and the european parliament believe that producer organisations should be maintained and even further reinforced in order to increase the degree of the concentration of the supply. this is absolutely fundamental if the sector is to match the huge concentration that we see these days in the retail sector. as you know, we have proposed a number of new initiatives in order to make our producer organisations much more attractive. we have proposed additional community financing of 60%: firstly, for mergers between producer organisations and associations of producer organisations; secondly, for regions where the level of the concentration of the supply through producer organisations is below 20%; thirdly for organic farming; fourthly for new member states and, finally, for the outermost regions. i am aware that you have requested even more action to be included in the additional community financial assistance of 60% to the operational funds, such as joint action between producer organisations or integrated production. however, what we have proposed will already make a very positive difference. i should like to stick to these measures in the first place. as you surely know, we also need to be attentive to the budgetary constraints. on crisis prevention and management, i agree with you that it is one of the most sensitive points of the reform and i should like to thank you for the ideas that you propose in your opinion. however, i cannot accept the idea of a separate fund for crisis management and the need to define what we actually mean when we talk about a ‘crisis’. a separate fund would result in a substantial budget increase and, moreover, will not contribute to further simplification. with regard to the use of a percentage of the national reserve for crisis management, this is not acceptable either. the national reserve was created at the very beginning to accommodate particular situations in the framework of the single payment scheme and it is not appropriate to devote this budget to another objective or other measures. however, i understand your call for more flexibility in order to facilitate crisis management. rather than making a completely separate structure, i should therefore positively consider adding more flexibility to the structure proposed in our initial commission proposal in order to make the scheme as efficient as possible and to avoid a major decline in prices. nevertheless, i want to underline that we also need to bear in mind that any modification of the current proposal has to respect the overall budgetary constraints, as well as the need for simplification. on the inclusion of fruit and vegetables for processing in the single payment scheme, you have requested an optional transitional period, in particular for tomatoes. you are also in favour of a separate payment for tomatoes for historical producers in the new member states. i am open to accept a short transitional period in which member states could decide to grant aid per hectare. nevertheless, one should bear in mind that full decoupling must be both the precondition and the end goal – so final decoupling at the end. i am also aware that the soft-fruit sector is facing difficulties. the commission analysis has shown that fragmentation of both production and marketing has contributed to the difficulties faced in recent years by the soft-fruit sector. on the basis of this report we have considered that the best way to address the problem is to add incentives to increase the number of producer organisations in the new member states, which is what we did in our original proposal. nevertheless, taking into account the sensitivities of this soft-fruit sector, i am open to considering specific smaller support, but i want to make it absolutely clear that it must be transitional and limited to certain products. finally, on promotion of fruit and vegetables, i fully agree with you that this issue is of huge concern not only to agriculture but also to health and to consumer policies. we produce plenty of high-quality fruit and vegetables in the european union, but our citizens do not consume enough of them, with growing consequences for their health. i would be in favour of a school fruit scheme to be implemented in line with the position taken by the commission on 13 may 2007 in the white paper on a strategy for europe on nutrition, weight and obesity-related health issues. however, before doing this we would need to carry out the necessary impact assessments of such a measure. i have asked my services to undertake such work immediately. those are my first comments and i am looking forward to a constructive discussion with the honourable members of the european parliament.
the rapporteur. - madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank you not only for being here but also for your cooperation and availability with this rapporteur. the truth is that we are faced with the reform of a very important sector, which you know very well. it represents 17% of our final agricultural production, although it receives only about 3% of the aid. it is true that this sector, which we are discussing today, is a very dynamic sector. but it is also a very fragile sector, with structural problems, exposed to increasing external pressure and also to pressure from the large distribution. the report we are debating today and which we are going to vote on tomorrow is the result of a long process. it is an open report, as i believe the position of this parliament has always been with regard to the commission. we have always been looking for agreements, but at the same time it must be said that this is a realistic report. it is complicated, because we are talking about 40 different products for 27 countries. it is not for nothing that it has received more than 380 amendments in the committee on agriculture, but it is also true that it has only received two votes against. certainly not everything in your proposal, in the commission's proposal, seems to us to be negative. i think it is very important that producer organizations should be seen from the outset as the cornerstone of the reform. but the truth is that in parliament, and in the whole of the european union, there are some problems which we have considered to be the main ones in all the member states in the reform. firstly, the decoupling of aid to processing, as the commissioner has very well pointed out. the second problem is the lifting of the ban on growing fruit and vegetables on land eligible for the single payment. and above all, we in parliament insist on the absence of a real crisis management mechanism. i think that the european parliament has made a great effort to reach consensus on these three issues. firstly, we are in favour of maintaining the current marketing standards. it is true that they should be somewhat simpler, but we are in favour of maintaining these marketing standards. parliament has spoken, and will speak tomorrow, against the lifting of the ban on fruit and vegetable cultivation on eligible land. at least until the commission has submitted an impact assessment as required by the court of justice. we call for the strengthening of producer organizations, in the sense already mentioned: increase their funding to 6%. and in the cases of the 60% increase in bonuses, as the commissioner has very well said, i hope that some requests will be taken into account, such as integrated production or designations of origin. where we have made a great commitment, because it is very important, because it is a fragile sector, is in the need to create this security fund for crisis management. i think that is, after hearing what you have said, what separates the commission most from the position - i think almost unanimously - of this parliament. we have made a commitment, and we continue to make a commitment, to this crisis fund, which is open to all producers - including non-members - and is financed by two thirds from the european union and one third from producer organisations. we also insist on the need for a price observatory. our future for this sector is not subsidies, it is the market. and we must have reliable and up-to-date information on market developments. finally, on decoupling, i am glad to hear that the possibility of a transitional period is finally being seen, glimpsed. there are some dual-use products, such as tomatoes and citrus fruits, which, under the initial proposal, may lead to the abandonment of certain productions. we therefore clearly support a transitional period, and let us hope that it will not be as short as what has been said here tonight, but that it will be as long as necessary to enable the sector to continue to adapt to the single payment scheme. i believe that this voluntary transitional period may allow for some kind of partial decoupling which may be a transitional measure. we also stress the need to increase aid for red fruit. i am also glad to hear your words, because i think that is clearly a need that has been pointed out by parliament and considered by the commission. finally, i would like to thank all those who have helped me during this year of work, the shadow rapporteurs, all the officials of the european commission for their contributions, for their collaboration with this rapporteur, the committee secretariat and all of you, because i believe that the report we are voting on tomorrow, the result of a great consensus, has also been enriched by the contributions of the other groups and of society as a whole.
the fruit and vegetable sector is today one of the most dynamic sectors of european agriculture, mainly because of the efforts made by farmers, producers, to improve marketing networks and to increase the quality of their products and to concentrate supply. it cannot be said in any way that the fruit and vegetable sector is dependent in any way on aid from brussels. it is rather successful in a very aggressive market, because those who participate in it work hard and the money they receive does not represent more than 1% of the turnover of the farms. a large majority of these producers are not now applying for subsidies or early retirement aid. what they are asking and demanding of us are mechanisms to deal with the problems of the present, which will only get worse and worse in the future. it is well known, and i should like to remind you all here, that the fruit and vegetable sector is the great bargaining chip in the agricultural negotiations which the european union is holding at the world trade organisation. in future, the existing market pressures will be aggravated as the existing tariff barriers are dismantled. i would therefore like to call on the member states to put in place appropriate crisis management mechanisms in view of the reform of the sector which will probably be adopted next week by the council of agriculture ministers of the union. crisis management, as the rapporteur has already indicated today and as many of you also know and acknowledge, is a trendy subject and will be important in the future for all the sectors of the common agricultural policy as a result of the dismantling of intervention measures. however, in the case of fruit and vegetables, this is also a problem whose solution is urgent because of the strong competition from imports from third countries and the pressures also coming from large-scale distribution. something must be done to offer them an imaginative solution to help the sector face the critical moments ahead and the solution is being given by this parliament with mrs salinas' report. this is a specific fund for serious crises, intended to launch certain actions as mutual funds and to which the whole sector would have access. this would be a very positive step, given that we are not deviating from what we have done so far, which is the co-responsibility of the producer. i believe that this report sets out a pioneering approach to crisis management for the fruit and vegetables sector, which other sectors will have to follow in the future.
mr president, the president-in-office quoted baltasar grazián in his speech and reminded me that my compatriot used to say that 'good, if brief' was 'twice as good'. i believe that one of the tasks we have in the european council in relation to the constitutional treaty is, as mrs wallström has said, to make it an accessible, understandable and clear document. and that is possible to do. the committee on action for democracy in europe, chaired by giuliano amato, has shown that: from 448 articles we have gone up to 71 articles; from 67 000 words to 16 800. so, briefly, but also good, as grazián asked: good because we consider the content, and we maintain the essential content of the constitutional treaty. so it is possible to do so, mr president. and i think that, judging by the spirit of today's speeches in this parliament, there is a very large majority in this house - and we shall prove this later in the vote on the barón/brok report - which wants to maintain the essential content of the constitutional treaty. so, mr president-in-office, you are taking over the european parliament's momentum in this direction today. the dear colleague and friend schulz spoke today about physicists and the importance of physics. when i was doing other things, mr president, i remember playing friedrich dürrenmatt's the physicists and i remember being isaac newton at the time. in the last speech, newton said that you cannot stop the progress of science and that you should not be afraid of the progress and the advances that are made. i believe that we should not be afraid of the progress and advances that have been made in the constitutional treaty either. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the council has said that in the next two weeks he has to go through a narrow corridor to get an agreement in the european council. i think it is rather a narrow street, because you are acting in public and after the convention you cannot decide everything behind closed doors. this is a change which the european council must take very seriously. what is done must be done with light, stenographers and the internet, and that is a message which i think not only the presidency of the council but all governments should bear in mind. secondly, in relation to our proposal, we have not summed up as much as the working party chaired by our dear friend amato. our proposal is not to leave out parts i and ii of the convention, and i very much appreciated what you said about respect for the charter of fundamental rights. and finally, mr president-in-office of the council, in order to make a simplified treaty, i would suggest that you add a motto to europe as a union in diversity, which would be 'liberté, egalité et fraternité'. why would you do that? because this is a union of sovereign and equal states, also of citizens; because we are all equal and there is no state or actor that can impose its will on others and fraternity demands that we solve the problem of others, but not at the cost of bringing the problem to our home. i think that this proposal would also be immediately accepted by president sarkozy, who has bravely brought france back onto the european scene. (applause) i would like to thank
ladies and gentlemen, the point raised by mr schulz and commented on by mr gollnisch is undoubtedly a point of extraordinary interest for the proper and proper functioning of this house. article 9 (2) is clear: members must show respect for one another in their parliamentary work. the article does not provide any further details. it is therefore for the presidency to judge whether a statement is offensive or not. i, mr schulz, was not in the chair at the time of the incident you mention, so you must understand that i cannot comment on the president's actions. in any case, you must all be clear that, in accordance with our rules of procedure, no insulting, abusive or offensive expression may be used in this chamber for another member of parliament. (protests and applause) mr helmer, we have settled the point.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i was a guest at this debate on the rules of procedure and i must now ask you to return to the discussion we had before the debate on the rules of procedure, namely on the forthcoming council. i would like to begin with a parallel which has been drawn very frequently in the debate, namely between the g8 summit currently taking place in heiligendamm and the next european council. there are indeed overlapping themes. mr markov, i want to speak directly to you because you have made yourself the proxy for all the critics who are protesting or criticizing the g8 summit at the moment. i would like to say, in my personal assessment, that either the g8 conferences are criticised for not being legitimate enough to make political decisions, or they are criticised for not being sufficiently clear and precise and - as far as climate protection is concerned - not making sufficiently demand-oriented decisions. the two, mr. markov, do not go together! (applause from the centre) we should all - and this is not a partisan statement - think very carefully about the political consequences of continuing to criticize political summits. the last thing we should be doing is criticizing summits of this kind, especially those who have something left over, who know that in a world that has become more difficult we need politics in dialogue. if anyone criticizes the summit in heiligendamm because we are discussing controversial issues on climate protection there, and is afraid of such a controversy, he should not participate in such summits. but waiting will not bring the desired result in a different situation of interests. i would like to remind you of our own european debate on climate change, which we held until march of this year. it was not at all clear that we would agree on a common outcome in march. sometimes it is necessary to argue, and arguing moves things in the right direction. i hope so too for heiligendamm! the european council is a meeting of the heads of state or government of the member states, and the european council is a meeting of the heads of state or government of the member states. i know, of course, that this confidence is coupled first of all with a great expectation of us that the questions which are still open concerning the european council and the constitution will be resolved in the coming weeks. i can only promise that we will do so with unchanged ambition. and we will not only be spending time in discussions, but we will also be trying to make creative proposals where it is still necessary. i agree with all those who have said here today: there must be no alternative to success at the european summit! (applause from the centre) some have criticized the lack of publicity. that is a debate which we should put aside for the moment. you all know better than i do that nothing is more public than a debate on european legislation! you know that we need a unanimous european council decision beyond the debate in parliament. there's no reason not to. it is in your interest too that we prepare as well as possible the conditions for the success of this council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when we meet in the european council, of course, any proposal will be public, and i am well aware that we as the presidency will be criticised for any new wording that is included in it. if the council as a whole agrees to the proposals, then the council and, in so far as the commission is involved, the commission will be criticised. there will be enough publicity and enough criticism anyway, so we must not burden the necessary work phase up to the council with unnecessary criticism. i think we've reduced the number of open questions in the process significantly in the last few weeks. that's a good sign. (the president declared the chamber in order.) the corridor in which we must now seek the solution has become clearer. i hope that you will all help to convince the governments, which we all know are still somewhat sceptical about the great project we are all working towards at the end of the german presidency of the council. i thank you for this debate. let us work together for success during the european council and let us not lose confidence that the sense of shared responsibility is sufficiently widespread among all 27 european governments. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, it is unthinkable to ask people who are actually paid to talk together to shut up. that is how you make decisions here. i have two final remarks. i should like to remind you of what mr watson did in his speech: he brought the spirit of mark twain into this chamber. he quoted mark twain, and, for those of you who were not here, mark twain said that at the end of the day when all is said and done more has been said than done. we now need to move from words to deeds on an institutional settlement. we feel that we deserve a second chance but cannot afford a second failure. i just have two things i would like to send with mr steinmeier. i look at the leaders of the political groups and at the minister in doing so, because we have to realise that we have a joint responsibility to explain and make it clear to people how this method of intergovernmental negotiations will have to be combined with explaining and listening to citizens; how we have a responsibility to communicate about this process with full respect of the fact that this and all its details cannot be negotiated in public. we have a joint responsibility to do as much as possible to involve citizens and civil society and make it an open, transparent and democratic process to the highest level possible. we must work together on this. secondly, it is time for me to repeat that the commission’s position on an issue that several of you raised and which concerns the european parliament’s involvement on this issue is that we see that the european parliament should be closely associated with the intergovernmental conference, at least matching the involvement that it enjoyed at the last intergovernmental conference. that is our position. finally, we also have to work together to work out the political narrative in communicating with citizens, and that has to do with embracing the issues that concern most citizens. they are worried about migration, climate change and energy, and we have to send the message that we want to equip the european union and its institutions in the best possible way to meet these new political challenges. (applause)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
mr bonde: the interpretation of the presidency, which, as you know, is the one competent to interpret the rules of procedure (with all due respect to the legal service, of course, but it is not the legal service but the presidency that interprets the rules of procedure)... the presidency, it said, takes the view that the reference to a document which exists, whether or not it has been ratified by all the member states, and which has been signed by all the heads of state or government, whether or not it has been ratified by all the member states, can be cited as a reference in the motion for a resolution. the presidency therefore considers that its objection is unfounded. (applause and protest) (parliament rejected the oral amendment)
the voting is closed.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 1 p.m.)
mr president, the vote was taken at the right time and in the right way, and as far as i can remember, mr president, i have never seen a vote in this house repeated because of a machine failure. i've never seen him before.
mr president, on 16 may, at dawn, a group of young spaniards and portuguese people (seven in all) did something that i would consider unwise: after a few parties they took some latvian flags in the city of riga, at which point they were arrested by the latvian police, imprisoned and some even ill-treated. for some time the spanish embassy was not informed of the arrest. in addition, they were kept in prison for 17 days and were not allowed to leave latvia for a month. the problem is that these young people are accused of serious attacks on the security of the latvian state - i would rather call it a gambra - and the question arises to what extent the latvian authorities realize that by extreme this kind of security measures and applying criminal legislation adopted for other issues they are not conforming to the normal behavior of the authorities when maintaining security within the member states. i would like the latvian authorities to be aware that their behaviour in this case has not been normal.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, thank you, mr hökmark, for this excellent report. we openly support the commission's initiative calling on all member states to overcome the imbalances in broadband, because broadband should be a general and universal service and it is the only way to bridge the digital divide, not only between cities and rural areas but also between some city districts and others less favoured. but to achieve this objective, a number of aspects need to be clarified. the first of these is the technologies that must be used to achieve this, because we all have the right to use the same form of connection, an interoperable form. that is why we emphasize that in order to achieve technological neutrality we need free standards and the extension and involvement of broadband. i therefore believe that the commission's initiative should consider mobile, wireless broadband services as a solution for hard-to-reach regions. for this wireless access there are legal problems, there are technical problems, there have been courts that say it's not possible. and i would also like to have an answer from the commission on competition and internal market issues. the other thing i would like to know is whether the fact that broadband distribution is done in a particular way could create a specific technological dependence on a particular company. what we mean is that we cannot create a technological dependence on a few companies, and that is why the regions must be educated in technology to promote the use of free standards in all of them. we must applaud the fact that mr hökmark has included in his report a proposal for full, clean and competition-neutral financing. but i would like to know what mechanisms should be used to achieve that neutrality and how we can reward innovation to achieve our ultimate goal, which is to distribute broadband to all users in europe.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr hökmark on his report. the fact is that broadband deployment has not yet been achieved in the same way in all member states and regions. i would like to refer in particular to the island regions. the high cost of broadband networks and services and lower return on investment in isolated and sparsely populated regions should never be a reason to justify access limitations. the potential discouragement of suppliers due to lack of commercial interest should be compensated by strategies based on greater technological development and innovation so that operators have better opportunities to enter the market. finally, i would also like to highlight the public service mission of ict-related infrastructures and services; it is the responsibility of the public authorities to guarantee access to ict for all citizens so that its benefits reach the entire population without exclusion.
member of the commission. madam president, i should like to thank the honourable members for their comments and the interesting debate. i have taken good note of what you said and i will convey your message to my colleague mr mandelson for his consideration. i am sure that he, like me, will be impressed by the high degree of consensus in this house. rather than going into detail on the different points raised this evening, i should like to say the following. it is true that many problems exist and our relations are complex. however, this is not surprising given the enormous depth and breadth of cooperation between the russian federation and the eu. in spite of a number of difficult issues, we should not forget that our cooperation with russia is very successful on many issues. i have already referred to the example of competition policy, where we have established good cooperation, and we have made good progress in aligning our regulatory systems. there are many other examples that i could refer to. at the same time, it is also clear that we need to tackle the challenges in our relations. we want to work actively with russia to find solutions to the outstanding issues and we need constructive engagement: only an active dialogue with the russian side, including on the difficult issues, will allow us to find solutions that are in our mutual interest. several members asked when the eu will be ready to start negotiations on the new agreement. negotiations on the new agreement will take place as soon as we have the mandate from the member states. the commission is working actively with the presidency, the member states and russia to overcome the remaining difficulties. we and russia have an interest in a new eu-russia agreement to replace the existing partnership and cooperation agreement, as our relationship with russia has developed over the last decade. a new agreement would take relations to a new level and enable them to reach their full potential. however, there is no time pressure: the present partnership and cooperation agreement remains in force and the ‘common spaces’ roadmap provides us with a substantial agenda for the short and medium term. there will be no legal vacuum. mrs foltyn-kubicka and mr seppänen mentioned polish meat. the commission is working with poland and russia for the lifting of the russian ban on imports of polish meat and plant products. we have been very active at all levels to demonstrate to russia that poland fully complies with eu legislation and eu-russia documents concerning veterinary and phytosanitary issues and that the bans should therefore be lifted. discussions will certainly continue. mrs budreikaitė and mr paleckis raised the question of the druzhba pipeline. the lithuanian government has raised this issue. the commission has kept in close contact with the russian energy minister, mr kristenko, and we are urging the russian authorities to provide lithuania with full information on the state of the pipeline so that a satisfactory solution can be found. several members spoke more generally about eu-russia energy relations. energy is an area which demonstrates our interdependence. russia needs european markets, investment and know-how just as much as europe needs russian oil and gas. we continue to believe that the energy charter treaty offers a good multilateral framework for international trade and investment in energy. at the most recent summit, a decision was taken to establish an early-warning mechanism. this can help make eu-russia energy dialogue more operational. energy will obviously have an important place in the new eu-russia agreement. as president putin assured us at the last summit, russia respects the key principles of the energy charter treaty and we expect them to be reflected in the new agreement. mrs oomen-ruijten asked about developments in russian investment law. i have to make it clear that this is at present a draft law, covering strategic sectors of the economy. the commission is following the developments closely. we will soon start an investment dialogue with russia and we will be able to discuss this with you further. finally, on the question of the rule of law, human rights and democracy, i can assure you that the commission will continue to press the importance of respect for common values and will ensure that the new agreement also reflects these values. in conclusion, i should like to thank the rapporteur once again for an excellent report. we will take it into account as much as possible in our work with russia.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ferreira, and the committee for this excellent report. once again, this annual report proves the added value parliament brings to competition policy development, and i am grateful for that. as you rightly point out in the report, an effective competition policy plays a key role in achieving the lisbon strategy goals. to remain effective, competition policy needs to keep up with the evolving world around it. i am very pleased that parliament supports the commission’s efforts to modernise competition policy, and in particular the work we did in 2005 to pursue a more refined economic approach. i agree with the report on very many issues, so i shall just mention three points where your comments really struck me. first, as you note, state aid control is essential to maintain a level playing field in the internal market. through our ongoing reform, we are redesigning our rules to make them more simple, more transparent, more user-friendly, more coherent and more predictable. our rules focus on the areas where limited amounts of aid can have most added value – competitiveness, the environment, training, regional cohesion, research, development and innovation. we have made good progress with the reform, but member states must also do their share, as you say, particularly when it comes to recovering illegal state aid quickly and effectively. the second point that struck me was that 2005 was the year we launched two major sector inquiries. i agree with you about the value of these tools for a forward-looking policy. in the energy sector, you are right to be concerned that the facts show serious barriers to competition. the commission will continue to pursue individual competition cases, working in cooperation with our colleagues in the national competition authorities. regulation in this sector needs to be improved, with the requirement of ownership unbundling a priority. third, you are right that, in today’s globalised world, competition authorities need to cooperate more than ever before. europe has a key role to play in encouraging strong competition cultures elsewhere in the world. at the same time, europe needs to be able to respond to unfair foreign subsidies. the common commercial policy – rather than matching aid – is the proper tool to address this. subsidy competition would undermine europe’s cohesion, create damaging subsidy races within our internal market, and bring serious risk of wto litigation. i am looking forward to the debate.
madam president, madam commissioner, i shall use the so-called case method in my speech, that is to say, i shall try to draw from a single, specific event conclusions which can be applied generally. as the honourable member knows, i have repeatedly been interested in the issue of the takeover bids in spain concerning the electricity company endesa. my colleague from the liberal group has referred to the national champions and i think this case fits perfectly into that context. as the honourable member knows, the present spanish government did everything possible to prevent the entry into endesa's capital of a german company, e.on, a behaviour which has already earned it the initiation of two proceedings by the commission. the first is against the general decision empowering a particular committee to lay down specific conditions, and the second concerns those specific conditions. the commissioner knows exactly what i'm talking about. then an italian company, partly public, entered endesa's capital. i have put a question to the commissioner, whose answer i have received today, and in which she says that she is investigating the restrictions on voting rights which have been introduced by the spanish government. the third problem in this case is that the person responsible, the president of the national energy commission, the spanish regulatory body appointed by the socialist government, has submitted his resignation to the socialist government itself, in protest at what he has considered to be attacks on its independence. that's what he explained in court. unfortunately, we have not been able to get him to explain this in this parliament, although i do not despair that there will also be light and stenographers here, that is, open transparency. i would like to know whether the commissioner is concerned about this, which affects the proper functioning of the whole european market, and is therefore a european matter as a whole, and which, if i may say so, also affects legal certainty, the good name and the good credit of my country on international markets, which, believe me, madam commissioner, is what i care most about. i would like to know from the commissioner whether she has already done any research, whether she intends to do any research, whether she intends to draw attention to the socialist government and whether she intends to carry out any reforms to combat this issue. i am grateful to the president-in-office for the opportunity to speak. i have gone a little too far because my spokesman, mr evans, was not present and i thought he could make good use of his time.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think our parliament has done well in changing the agenda to deal with the situation in the middle east. unfortunately, i have little faith that our debate will allow us to make progress in finding a solution to the conflict, but in any case, it is clear that we should have celebrated it. just a few days ago we had a debate in brussels with the high representative and commissioner ferrero on the situation in the middle east, in which we recalled the 40th anniversary of the six-day war, in which israel invaded gaza, the west bank and the golan heights. today, 40 years later, we have to see that the situation is still unstable, that - as the french press reminded us yesterday - it has not been possible to build a palestinian state and that, unfortunately, there are de facto two opposing governments. in addition, there is a very serious political, economic, social and humanitarian crisis. you asked, mr president, what the international community in general and the european union in particular can do, and it is clear that what we must do is, first of all, to support mahmoud abbas and the moderate government of salam fayad, which is not only the government of the west bank but also of gaza. the international blockade - you have also mentioned this, mr president - imposed on palestine since hamas won the elections must also be lifted. we must therefore welcome the decision taken yesterday by the general affairs council of ministers to resume direct aid to the palestinian national authority, and we hope that the meeting to be held today in washington between the president of the united states and the israeli prime minister will take the same direction. it is also time, mr president, for israel to transfer the amounts due to palestine in customs duties. but, mr president, all these conditions are necessary, but they are clearly not sufficient, because we all know that at the moment there is still a situation of violence in gaza and that, in fact, in the difficult equation between war and peace, progress in the middle east can only be made by renouncing violence as a means of political action, by recognizing the state of israel and by all the acts which, like the release of the british journalist alan johnston, contribute to the objective of peace prevailing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all political men and women in this house, and we know very well that the most highly valued asset on the stock exchange of political values is unity, and that without unity the dream of a viable palestinian state living in peace with its neighbours cannot be realised. mr president, you have said it very well, it is time to silence the guns so that dialogue can prevail and peace can be consolidated, and it is up to the european union, together with other actors such as the united nations or the arab league or the other members of the quartet, to mobilize all its efforts to contribute, with intelligence and generosity, in a way consistent with its tradition and its values and, of course, from the perspective of humanitarian aid, to the establishment of a just and lasting peace in the middle east.
mr president, education and training are indeed a fundamental right and are also an essential element for the fulfilment of other social, economic, cultural and political rights. the key to making progress in reconciling family, work and student life, as is the case here, is to address the complex issue of time allocation and management, not of women but of society as a whole. and to do this, therefore, it is necessary to propose social and economic reforms that guarantee, among other things, a modification of the current majority guidelines, according to which it is women, by definition, who bear most, if not all, of the family and care responsibilities. the answers to this challenge must come from the promotion of what are called everyday policies, with a comprehensive view of needs and establishing cross-cutting public service policies, ensuring the provision of measures such as kindergartens or public mobility, and with a flexibility in working hours that responds to the different concrete realities, without this entailing a detriment to the quality of the service, as well as economic and fiscal aids that allow, in the end, to form a family is a personal decision, also between people of the same sex.
mr president, students with family responsibilities have to cope with specific situations and needs in terms of housing, childcare, flexibility in the pace of study, which is not always taken into account in the educational and social systems. public policies for reconciling private and professional life must therefore not ignore the needs of young people during their studies. in this context, female students are also in a particularly vulnerable situation, since even as students they are the ones who take on the majority of family responsibilities, not only in the case of motherhood, but also when it comes to caring for an elderly dependent person or a disabled person in their care. without adequate support, young women are more likely than men to drop out of school and not return to school, leading inevitably to unequal opportunities for women and men in their future working lives and, consequently, to a loss of human potential that is important for the labour market and for society as a whole. the level of education has an unquestionable impact on employment, as has been said by previous speakers. statistics show that unemployment rates are lower when education levels are higher. for this reason, if the european union is to meet the target of increasing the female employment rate to 60% by 2010, clear measures must be taken to ensure that work-life balance policies are applied from the young age when they are in training. the recommendations in this report are therefore very important, and i would like to congratulate mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou on her work.
mr president, in 2005, at gleneagles, the g8 leaders sent an encouraging message with the promise of 42 billion for africa for health aid, focusing especially on aids, malaria and tuberculosis. in 2007 we have a new pledge, 44 billion euros. is the engagement really new? we don't know that. or is it just a new way of disguising a failure to comply, as all the big ngos that closely follow these calculations have denounced? there is no specific timetable, it is not clear how it is linked and how this new promise relates to the previous promises. we must tell the citizens from here that our governments are not acting in a way consistent with the discourse they are issuing. the same leaders who see people in their homes leaving africa in fear, who are willing to risk their lives to die in the mediterranean, who are saddened by these dramatic images, then fail to live up to their promises when they have to turn them into political decisions. commitment must grow in aid - yes, certainly, very especially in health and education. but compromise must also be brought to the negotiating table. in its communiqué, the g8 calls the success of the doha round vital to the economic growth of the african continent, the g8 says. but it would be hypocritical for us to separate our humanitarian or aid speeches from our conduct at the negotiating table in the doha round, and i am not just talking about the european union, i am talking about the whole of the first world, the first world that has met at the g8. we cannot separate the freedom of trade, the reality of trade, the reality of what doha can mean for those countries, from our humanitarian and aid speeches. our promises have to be translated at the negotiating table into something more than what is being offered in cash. and finally, the help has to be rational. the support of the g8 for the african infrastructure consortium (ica) is to be welcomed; it is a concrete measure that i would like to highlight here.
member of the commission. mr president, let me start by thanking mr libicki and mr cashman for their hard work in preparing the report on behalf of the committee on petitions on the third fact-finding mission to valencia. this mission gave committee members an opportunity to meet the representatives of the administrations and the complainants and to gain first-hand experience of the situation on the ground. the urbanisation projects in spanish regions at stake involve three main aspects: public procurement, fundamental rights and environmental rules. let me give you a few indications of our actions in these areas. firstly, on public procurement: the commission takes the view that approval of integrated action programmes under the valencia land planning law involves the award of public works and services contracts. we consider that some activities were carried out in a way which infringes eu public procurement legislation. i informed parliament about this in december 2005. we thus decided to launch infringement proceedings again spain on this issue. the commission challenged the existing law on land and town planning at the time. on 30 december 2005, the regional authorities approved a new land law which revoked and replaced the previous one. however, the new law does not correct some of these infringements, which relate to tender notices or the information required by tender notices and the unclear definition of the contract's object. it contains other provisions that are also incompatible with the directive on public works, supply and services contracts. we pursued the legal procedure during 2006. the replies we received from the competent authorities were not convincing. i therefore intend to propose that the commission should refer this case to the court of justice. secondly, with regard to fundamental rights, the commission cannot intervene in this area. in our view, the alleged infringements of property rights do not involve any provision of community law which would enable the commission to intervene on these grounds. thirdly, on environmental legislation: here too the commission can only take legal steps when community law is infringed. however, as far as the environment is concerned, land development policy as such does not fall within the competence of the union. the departments under the responsibility of my colleague mr dimas do, however, investigate land development cases where these are alleged to infringe community environmental law. i can assure you that the commission will continue to see to it that the competent spanish authorities comply with eu environmental rules when implementing urban development plans. the commission has already taken action in other cases when they fell within its remit, i.e. when urban development projects breached environmental directives, for instance those on water or on environmental impact assessment.
i am not going to go into the substance of this matter, because it has been discussed on many occasions in the committee on petitions itself. but i do want to come to something that i think is important, and that is that, by bringing this resolution to this house, we are faced with a problem of competence, because this resolution, i believe, ladies and gentlemen, is encroaching on national competence. you want to replace decisions of regional parliaments, you want to replace decisions of national parliaments, you want to replace the constitutional court itself, you want to replace the spanish judicial body, that is to say, this resolution is an unprecedented invasion of powers. and that is why i think that the legal service of this house should tell us whether everything can be voted on here, when, as in this case, national and regional competence is being trampled underfoot. the truth is that the commission's answer has reassured me, because when it says that it has not been able to intervene and that it cannot intervene, it reassures my political group, because, of course, the parliament or the government of valencia have always acted in accordance with the law, in accordance with the judicial approaches that this government has always defended. and i just want to end with a question that we have heard all along, even in the committee on petitions itself: we were told that the citizens would remember, that the citizens would speak at the ballot box when they voted, and that they would make the government of valencia or the government of madrid pay for what was happening. the citizens have spoken and have clearly expressed their support for a programme, a known project, for what has been done in the community of valencia, for what has been done in the community of madrid, and they have given the majorities, not relative majorities, but absolute majorities, to the governments of the popular party, both in madrid and in valencia.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i do not believe that the main objective of the committee on petitions in its excellent work was to bring down this or that regional government in spain, however regrettable its actions may have been. what the committee on petitions has done is to act on a principle which is politically unquestionable. when it comes to defending the rights of citizens, there is no national sovereignty or national borders that matter. the point is that in some autonomous communities in spain, not in the whole country, certain autonomous governments, certain local governments are attacking the environment, attacking the sustainability of citizens' lives and, therefore, violating individual and collective rights. this is the case in valencia, in madrid, my autonomous community. the president of the community of madrid has not only done so in the past, but intends to continue to do so: her projects were already moving in that direction. it is not about houses, but, for example, she is determined to continue to carry out the project of a road before the m-50 and which she now calls the m-61 that she wants to destroy, nothing more and nothing less, than the mountain of el pardo, a place of fundamental ecological importance. i would like to congratulate the committee on petitions and say that it has been right - and this resolution does so again - in responding to the demands of petitioners and citizens, and i would also like to express my solidarity with a serious work and, of course, say that the insults that have been received by the integrity of this house and the members of that delegation were as unacceptable as some of the content that is intended to continue to be maintained here. reason is above all.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, mr iturgaiz, winning an election does not give you the right to hate european legislation. the public interest to justify a major embezzlement cannot simply emanate from a majority vote of a few councilors in a municipality. a political majority cannot be used as an excuse to empty local democracy of its content by creating parallel town halls whose protagonists are the insatiable urban developers and the omnipotent builders. the mere approval of a town planning project does not give the right to mortgage the conservation of water resources and valuable land for several generations by a flood of cement everywhere. there has been a lack of greater transparency, a minimum of respect for smallholders and public participation in all processes. the scandal of the valencian, andalusian and madrid bricks is a european scandal which demands a european response. we demand that the commission act with energy and urgency in the face of flagrant violations of the public procurement directive, the water framework directive and the habitats directive by the valencian authorities and other regional governments. many of the 750 000 houses built in spain last year, more than in france and germany combined, have not respected community law. what is the commission waiting for to act?
mr president, the missions that this parliament has carried out to the valencian community are the result of cases of urban abuse that have been reported, which have been reported by the media, and which have worried many citizens. it is not the visits of members of the european parliament that scare off potential home buyers. these missions are precisely a contribution to ensuring that the tens of thousands of european citizens who wish to reside in our territory do so with the confidence that their investments are made in a place with clear rules of the game and in an environment which respects the environment. future customers are becoming more demanding every day and these two elements are a competitive advantage that we cannot allow to be destroyed by uncontrolled urban planning. in recent years, complaints of such abuses have increased from citizens who believe that they have indeed been victims of acts that have affected their property or that have seriously deteriorated the environment in which they live. however, i also want to say that i don't think they are widespread, nor do they happen every day. but the promises made by the regional authorities before these missions have not been fulfilled, nor have they solved the problems, nor reformed the laws, nor taken care of those affected, nor implemented the recommendations approved by this parliament in 2005. on 27 may there were elections in the valencian community and it is true that this is a good time to start a new stage and, above all, to rectify, to acknowledge, first of all, the existence of this problem, something which the regional government has not yet done. and to accept the fact that you've been unable to solve it until now. it is also time, of course, to abandon the arrogance and contempt which he had for members who visited the community. and i would like to say in conclusion that my party, the socialist party, is once again, as it has done on several occasions, lending its hand to help solve this problem. it therefore reiterates, in the case of the region of valencia, the need for a broad political and social agreement involving all the parties concerned, which, of course, has as its premise the reform of the valencian town planning law in order to bring it into line with the treaties and to increase legal certainty for all parties, and which also includes, of course, the introduction of mechanisms of assistance and arbitration for citizens who consider themselves affected by urban abuse.
member of the commission. for fear there has been a mistake they do not exist yet. mr crowley’s question was whether we could consider preparing an information leaflet and this action was also recommended by the expert group on mortgage credit. we are examining this and will attempt to see what we can do in terms of having a proper information leaflet, subject to the various caveats i myself entered about how this would be produced. i congratulate the member for her initiative in tackling this in an obviously professional capacity i imagine it was a considerable amount of work. however, as i said in my former reply, we might endeavour to marry the expertise that is available out there among private organisations who might agree to having some type of joint approach, using what is already there rather then starting afresh ourselves. so perhaps the honourable member would be willing to give some of the information she has to my departments and we might exploit her obvious talents in this matter.
member of the commission. the external dimension of eu migration policy and commission action in this area has developed a lot over the last few years due to the needs regarding migration, in particular for the definition but also the implementation of a global approach to migration. we think this is important for the future and we are trying to do what we can to come to a global approach. in the context of this global approach, we are developing various initiatives relating to all aspects of migration. that means including legal migration, but particularly the fight against illegal migration, readmission and readmission agreements, return, reintegration, asylum, migration and development, and migration and integration. from the outset, i have personally committed myself to the 3% target in the neighbourhood policy instrument. i am already beginning to give definite form to the commitment as regards the countries under my responsibility. together with mr frattini and mr michel, i have just presented to the commission for adoption the 2007-2010 thematic strategy for the thematic programme on cooperation with third countries in the areas of migration and asylum. the programme provides for an indicative amount of more than eur 380 million over the period 2007-2013 for cooperation with third countries in the areas of migration and asylum, including on labour migration and reintegration of returnees. the commission delegations play a key role in the implementation of this ambitious agenda, both at political but also at operational level, and brussels-based commission departments systematically inform the commission delegations of, and involve them in, new developments related to migration. political dialogue with third countries is conducted jointly by the delegations and brussels-based departments. at operational level, delegations are also responsible, for instance, for identifying needs and constraints, to ensure that actions financed with community external assistance are properly implemented. in addition, delegations in countries where migration has emerged as an important new topic in the context of community external assistance are also assisted by the departments in brussels through training measures, thematic networks at operational level and support missions. through these measures, we in the commission ensure that the delegations are able to interact with the member states but also with third countries, and to implement migration-related community assistance.
mr president, commissioner, i have followed over the past few months the statements made by you and commissioners michel and frattini, and i am very encouraged by the commitments they have made. my concern is that sometimes in the european union we have too much voluntarism, we make statements and those statements are not followed by deeds because of the lack of means. for example, the frontex system has encountered enormous difficulties in controlling illegal immigration. the commitments made by the three commissioners would require the development of a new kind of external service of the european union, no longer economic, no longer political, but social and labour-related, something like the labour and social aggregators that all the member states have today. does the commissioner think that she can develop that kind of overseas service? do you have sufficient resources? what can parliament do to help the commissioner develop this new role?
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs mccarthy, on her excellent report, but i think this is a good opportunity to say something clear that can be understood by people outside the house, ordinary citizens. i have some professional experience in this area, and i must say that public procurement is the cornerstone of the fight against corruption. the transparency and the level of good governance of public administrations are measured by the level of functioning of legal rules and their implementation by the institutions. i would like to congratulate the commission on the work it has done in implementing these legal rules and to convey my appreciation to the court of justice for the correct application of these rules. however, as the rapporteur points out, we cannot be satisfied with the current situation, because there are many european union regulations which have not yet been incorporated into national laws and, unfortunately, there are still many public administrations within the european union which are not applying community legislation correctly. i believe that now - as the rapporteur recommends - is the time for the commission to draw up a major action plan aimed at ensuring compliance with community legislation and improving it, and, by working with the states which are responsible for implementing that legislation, at achieving effective implementation at all levels of administration, because there may be some countries which are not corrupt, but i would say that this is the greatest danger to the functioning of both the administration and our democracy. my thanks again to mrs mccarthy. i think we can adopt this report by a large majority tomorrow.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the committee on legal affairs has therefore proposed that the sole legal basis be article 175, with all the procedural consequences that this entails. that said, mr president, as a member from a country which has been very historically linked to mercury activity, i would venture to point out that amendment no 40 on mercury storage, tabled by mr callanan, is much more precise than the text which the commission had envisaged with regard to article 3 (1) (a). i would therefore, mr president, after having proposed this legal basis, also like to ask for support for mr callanan's amendment no 40.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for you mercury is just a toxic metal to be disposed of and which you have only seen on the thermometer when you have a fever. for me, the mercury also evokes a town in my province, almadén and its surroundings, whose mines were one of the birthplaces of the workers' movement in spain. the mercury evokes in me the thousands of men and women who have lived off it for centuries, hundreds of faces and names, friends whom i have accompanied as a socialist member of parliament for the last 30 years, explaining to them, convincing them, supporting them with alternatives to overcome the paradox that the progress of mankind, which eliminated mercury, seemed to condemn them to disappear. these neighbours have understood our efforts and have reiterated their confidence in us a few days ago by voting for the socialist party candidates in their town halls. today, as i remember these friends and reaffirm my commitment to them, i would like to thank them for their understanding, which is reflected in the text adopted by the committee on the environment and which we will improve tomorrow with some amendments. in this text there are three favourable facts which will be received in almadén with gratitude, interest and hope. firstly, it is recommended that specific community financial compensation be granted for the socioeconomic development of almadén and its surrounding area. secondly, it is recommended that priority be given to the location in almadén of the mercury deposit which is intended to safely store all the metal in europe. thirdly, the unquestionable argument of the experience and familiarity of almadén with the handling of mercury makes it common sense to locate the warehouse where more than 80% of the mercury in the european union is already safely stored. a countryman told me that bringing mercury from almadén to any other point would be like bringing the piano to the banquet instead of bringing the banquet to the piano to start playing in a concert. finally, we welcome the consistency of those who propose that mercury exports and other transactions can be carried out - as we said in the matsakis report - until 2010, with the date of 1 december, which leaves a little more room for mercury to circulate. i am sure that with the resolution we shall be adopting parliament will be in a good position to assume its responsibility for codecision in the corresponding procedure with the council.
mr president, this proposal for a regulation proposes that we ban exports of metallic mercury from 1 july 2011 at the latest, and at the same time it includes provisions on the safe storage of surplus mercury that will be produced mainly by the withdrawal of mercury cells from chloralkali factories; it is estimated that, in all of europe, these cells contain approximately 12 000 tonnes of mercury. the advance of the deadline for the ban on exports of metallic mercury breaks a consensus scenario drawn up both by parliament when we discuss the community strategy on mercury and by the agreement the commission itself has signed with euroclor, the european federation of chlorine manufacturers. the commission has agreed to end mercury exports from 1 july 2011, and i believe that these agreements must be respected and that the date of the mercury export ban must not be brought forward in any way. the surpluses from the chloroalkaline industry must be stored, because this storage is necessary. the resolution on the community strategy on mercury, adopted in march 2006, says exactly that it is appropriate to examine the possibility of designating almadén for the safe storage of existing stocks of metallic mercury or secondary metallic mercury resulting from the european industry never of mercury products that have become waste thus taking advantage of existing infrastructures, manpower and know-how in situ. i would also like to remind you that the text of the community strategy clearly recognises the historical importance of mercury for the almadén region and the need to compensate the region for all this. finally, i am against the amendments which propose that mercury should be stored in solid form rather than in liquid form. today, with the research that exists, we are not in a position to solidify mercury, so we have to store liquid mercury, which, moreover, is stored very safely, without in any case producing mercury vapors, which are the pollutants.
member of the commission. mr president, let me now turn to some of the key amendments in detail. amendments 1, 7, 8, 9, 20, 21, 22 and 44 imply a significant extension of the scope of the proposal through the introduction of an export ban for cinnabar ore, calomel, mercury compounds and some mercury-containing products, as well as through the addition of an import ban. the commission considers these amendments to be either unnecessary or not sufficiently justified. in the absence of mercury mining activities in the community, there is no need for an export ban on cinnabar ore. in a similar way, the community has been a massive exporter of mercury, but not an importer. the impact assessment concluded that secondary sources of mercury – recycling and recovery – will cover the remaining demand within the community. as mercury compounds and mercury-containing products are concerned, we would need a much more developed information base to justify such an extension. for the time being, it is not possible to estimate in a reliable way the possible impact of such a measure on industry and society, within the community as well as in third countries. using legislation to prevent a hypothetical problem would not be considered good practice in terms of better regulation. several amendments – numbers 12, 25, 27, 28, 29 and 45 – exclude the long-term storage or final disposal of metallic mercury, allowing for temporary storage only. it is worth noting that no environmentally and economically sound solution for the stabilisation of mercury prior to its disposal exists at present. amendments 6, 24 and 36 imply that preference should be given to the former mining site of almadén for the storage of mercury. the commission is well aware of the economic and social implications of the mine closure and the end of trading activities on the site. it does not, however, want to prescribe a single storage site to economic operators. amendments 8, 10, 13, 30 and 32 increase the administrative burden for industry, as well as for member states and the commission. the commission has strong doubts about the potential effectiveness and benefits of these very detailed requirements as compared to their costs. as regards the legal basis referred to in amendment 2, the commission proposal follows the line given by the european court of justice in its judgments in cases c-94/03 and c-178/03 concerning the rotterdam convention on prior informed consent for imports of chemicals. our proposal is very similar in character, as it proposes trade-related measures as an environmental policy instrument. we cannot, therefore, support the amendment to the legal basis. amendments 17 and 34 calling for the introduction of an article on penalties are, however, acceptable to the commission. in summary, the commission can support eight of the proposed 50 amendments fully, in part, or in principle. i shall give parliament’s secretariat a list detailing the commission’s position on the amendments commission’s position on amendments by parliament – see annex..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, in particular by ensuring that the protection of the environment is not restricted to the protection of workers from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, and by ensuring that the protection of the environment is not restricted to the use of chemicals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of workers from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, in particular by ensuring that the protection of the health of workers is not restricted to the use of chemicals.
member of the commission. mr president, i should just like to make one point. following the point raised by mr podkański, i should clarify that the solidarity fund does not pay out for income losses of individual farmers. i should like to thank members for their contributions to the debate, and i will inform my colleague mariann fischer boel about the concerns which have been raised.
i should like to thank you, commissioner, and your team for having stayed so late.
the debate is closed.
madam president, i am continuing where mr őry left off because i want to express the same concerns, the same reasons for satisfaction, and also congratulate the committee, the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, for being so courageous and for having entered this minefield with the determination and the will to move forward and to remove the obstacles we have seen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we say it, lisbon says it, the council says it a thousand times, but we see that we are not making progress. there is also an absolute need to respect and guarantee the rights of mobile workers who move within the community and within our own countries. i therefore want to express my concern about the difficulties that have arisen in the council and that may arise today in parliament. my concern, firstly, is that the council is once again holding back reasonable hopes and minimal hopes, progress that is minimal and is held back by national issues and national selfishness. i am concerned because this is not the first time, nor will it be the last, that the council seems to be deaf to the demands of the europeans. my concern is that the work done by parliament is said to be the basis for further work when parliament's consensus is no longer sufficient to unblock council positions. and my concern is that those same problems in the council will be transferred here to parliament, and we will have a difficult vote today. i hope, mrs oomen-ruijten, that the amendments which are intended to stop your report will not be accepted and that your report, which is reasonable and minimal, will be accepted with the support of all and will serve as a basis for further progress - something which europe needs and which is in great demand from the citizens, who are not sufficiently listened to by our governments.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the request by cyprus and malta to have their convergence status reviewed was submitted before the two-year anniversary of their participation in the exchange rate mechanism, which is 2 may 2005, and the reports of the european central bank and the commission have been submitted following the guidelines requested by greece, lithuania and slovenia. while it is always useful to improve the processes of enlargement of the euro area and to improve the involvement of the european parliament, my central message is to our cypriot and maltese compatriots, so that they know our position that cyprus and malta can join the euro area and should be able to enjoy all the advantages of monetary union from the beginning of next year. this enlargement of the euro area will be an important step in the process of european integration. for the first time since reunification, most of the member states of the european union will be part of the euro area.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, this house has already spoken out many times in favour of an international treaty on arms transfers. but what makes this debate and the resolution we have tabled special is that the united nations is already at work. a resolution adopted in december 2006 with the support of 153 countries was the starting point for the debate we are discussing today. and it's good to remember that 153 countries signed it, because this gives a really important legitimacy to the process. in this context, some points in the resolution we are presenting today should be highlighted: first, the 153 countries are asked to send the united nations secretary-general their reports as soon as possible, with the content they believe the treaty should contain, the scope of application and, above all, their opinion on the viability of the treaty. secondly, that these reports be based on existing international law, especially in relation to international humanitarian law and human rights in general. there are already important treaties to be taken into account. thirdly, that the governments of the states undertake to carry out a rigorous investigation into the degree of compliance and, in particular, non-compliance with the current regulatory standards, international embargoes and, in the european case, the strict application of the code of conduct on arms exports. the case of arms exports to sudan deserves special mention, among others, and we shall be dealing with this subject in particular at the july part-session. and fourthly, that governments should also pay attention to and give their full support to the creation of an expert group to be set up in 2008 to define the content of the treaty. finally, we must be aware that the process towards an international arms transfer treaty, even if it is already under way, will be slow, and that in the meantime arms sales in the world continue to grow. according to the ipc, sales in 2005, of which about a third came from the european union, amounted to usd 290 billion. in the meantime, therefore, we must be particularly rigorous and demanding with regard to the existing control mechanisms and pay particular attention to the control of intermediaries, to the enforcement of embargoes and to increased transparency and parliamentary control of these exports.
mr president, commissioner, the european union has devoted a great deal of time, effort and budgetary support to cooperation between the mediterranean countries. the sum of the two meda programmes is over eur 7 billion in commitments and over eur 600 million per year. meda actions, in our view, have been one of the great successes of the european union and have contributed not only to economic development but, above all, to democratic development and the defence of human rights throughout the mediterranean basin. i believe that a large part of the whole civil society network in the mediterranean countries owes its existence to the work of the meda programme. we are therefore very proud that the implementation of this programme, in all its aspects, is very good. the palestinian question has always been controversial from a budgetary point of view; it is the most contentious part of the meda programme. direct aid to palestine is very difficult to control, as one of my colleagues has said, both in its destination and in its application. i would remind you that in the last parliament we had a committee of inquiry on direct budgetary aid, of which i myself was a member, and as a result of which and from its conclusions a number of lessons were drawn and measures taken which served, among other things, to create this mechanism of transitional intervention. of course, we are now in a situation where the humanitarian and political realities outweigh any precautions we may have from the point of view of budgetary control over this budgetary aid. i therefore join the feeling of this house, which is practically unanimous, that we are in full agreement with this show of confidence in the palestinian government. we know that direct budgetary aid is very difficult to control, but we all take a vote of confidence so that with the help of all of us we can carry it through.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i welcome this report and i support the main recommendations made by the rapporteur, mrs batzeli. juvenile crime is indeed one of the challenges we have to address in our modern societies. i will give you an example. a recent study conducted by the european crime prevention network on bullying in schools showed that school bullying was, and still is, a significant problem in europe, involving between one in seven and one in three students within any given school term. as a first step, we need to improve our knowledge of the phenomenon by collecting relevant data. statistics collected at national level are not easily comparable because of the differences in member states' legislation and the different ways in which official crime statistics are produced. considerable work has been done in the past five years by the european crime prevention network to improve the quality and comparability of member states' criminal justice statistics. moreover, the network's website has become an effective tool for providing information, both to practitioners and the general public, on member states' prevention policies. in addition, the five-year action plan on statistics, adopted by the commission last august, will also include and measure juvenile crime and juvenile justice, so that we can have a broader view of this phenomenon at european level. as a result, we will be better able to identify policy needs and to develop indicators, taking into account the current work of international organisations, and will possibly be able to develop a juvenile crime prevention strategy at european level. prevention is clearly a key aspect of this area, and i share the rapporteur's view that we cannot merely use repressive measures to deal with this problem. we have to work on an interdisciplinary and multi-institutional basis. in particular, policies such as spatial planning, social housing, social inclusion, education and training, anti-discrimination and anti-racist measures, and integration of migrants, play an important role in preventing crime, in particular juvenile crime. moreover, the experience of networks operating in juvenile and urban crime prevention activities proves that all social activities to improve the environment, such as work on public spaces, renovation of squares, lighting, street cleaning, housing policy, facilities and social action services, contribute to an active and long-lasting crime prevention policy for young people. crime prevention must also provide an effective contribution to community safety policies, which aim to avoid the very emergence of crime risks, in particular by fostering healthy and caring societies that offer young people the necessary social environment for a sense of identity, integration and a purposeful life. we have to be aware that member states and the local authorities bear the main responsibility for implementing effective crime prevention policies. this is even truer for juvenile crime, which typically occurs at local level. the local authorities therefore hold the main responsibility for addressing the problem, ideally supported by the national authorities. however, cooperation and supportive action at european level can play an important role without replacing member states' national policies. i have already mentioned the european crime prevention network's important work in collecting and facilitating the exchange of information. however, the network has also played an important role in exchanging experiences and best practice between member states regarding effective prevention policies. moreover, a comprehensive comparative study of juvenile crime in all eu member states, as well as acceding and candidate countries, began last year and will be completed by the end of this year. i will, of course, make it available to you. such studies will provide a sound basis for future european policy developments in this field. over the last few years, substantial financial support has been provided for policy initiatives in crime prevention through various community-funded programmes. under the hippocrates and agis programmes, the commission has co-funded more than 120 transnational projects in the last five years in areas such as the design of safe urban environments, the exchange of best practice on juvenile and urban crime and the development of good practices in the juvenile justice system. in addition, in order to respond to the need for firm action against violence among children and young people, including bullying in schools, the commission has funded, and will continue to fund, several projects regarding peer violence and bullying through the daphne ii programme, which will be succeeded by daphne iii. the emphasis on bullying in schools has increased in recent years, as already mentioned, and there are several interesting projects ongoing. the new generation of financial programmes under the new financial perspective in the field of justice, freedom and security, particularly the programme 'prevention and fight against crime', will, along with daphne iii, offer substantial financial support to national and transnational projects in this field. finally, these will be complemented for the same period, 2007-2013, by additional and substantial funding in the area of education and training, youth, culture and citizenship. you are, i am sure, familiar with the new youth in action programme. as i have already mentioned, education is one of the keys to preventing juvenile crime, so these programmes constitute another important contribution to long-term prevention policies.
i would like to thank the committee on women's rights and gender equality and the experts who attended the public hearing, because their contributions have given us valuable information on the problem of juvenile delinquency in europe. i would also like to congratulate mrs batzeli on this report and my colleagues on their efforts and work. but the increase in juvenile delinquency in europe is a phenomenon we cannot ignore. the younger the offenders, the more worrying it is. that is why we in the european parliament must call on the member states to share their experiences and find solutions to reduce this phenomenon. this is also important not only to create a coherent and effective strategy but also to take into account the specific role played by the family, educators and society in general in the formation of young people's values. i would like to make a special mention of the role that politicians must play in this matter and, therefore, i welcome the initiative that was taken in la rioja, where the figure of the extra-school animator was created, a person close to young people who shares with them their leisure time outside the classroom and who enhances their development and social integration. we can now strengthen this initiative with more ambitious programmes, such as those the commissioner has explained. but when we talk about youth violence, we cannot forget the social issue. on 17 may 2003, sandra palo, a 22-year-old spanish woman with a mental disability, was kidnapped, raped, repeatedly run over and burned alive by four young people aged between 14 and 18. after serving four years in juvenile detention, one of them will be released one of these days. ladies and gentlemen, freedom comes with responsibility and our societies, which are free, must be responsible. if we want cases like sandra palo's to never happen again, we must flee from any message that generates a sense of impunity in minors and adopt effective measures that restore citizens' trust in the system.
the president of the council. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i would have to look into this matter you have just raised. but i have said it before: on the one hand, we must try to develop new initiatives in certain areas. when the commission presents this report, we shall see where the gaps are. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i ask for your indulgence that in my answer i now have to mention many technical things which may not always be understandable. but those who are deeply involved in the matter know how important the fundamentals are in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures in this area, namely on migration, under title iv of part iii of the treaty on european community. pursuant to the second indent of article 67 (2), the areas in which measures are adopted under the codecision procedure with the european parliament are extended by council decision 2004/927/ec of 22 december 2004 on the application of the procedure laid down in article 251 of the treaty establishing the european community to certain areas falling within title iv of part three of that treaty. most of the measures under these provisions are now taken under the codecision procedure. the european council has, however, taken the view that, until the entry into force of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, the council should continue to act unanimously on the measures referred to in article 63 (3) (a) and (4) of the ec treaty in the field of legal migration of third-country nationals to and between member states. these and other issues are still being examined in the ongoing treaty reform process.
madam president, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for the information he has given us, which, despite its technical nature, is obviously very familiar to this parliament. the fact is that we have a great deal of concern in parliament at the moment about the council's inability to resolve immigration issues through intergovernmental cooperation. i shall refer to just one case, the maintenance of the dublin ii regulation, which prevents us from showing solidarity with the republic of malta in dealing with the problems of immigration, which could be solved by a community approach. my concern is that the intergovernmental route is not enough and we have to move to the first pillar route; one example of this is the issue of the dublin ii regulation.
the president of the council. i agree with you that we as the european union must act when the information you have just described is available. but we've made a rule for ourselves. i can only take up your request in the interests of consumers and support the commission in informing the relevant bodies of the extent to which it has examined it and what action it can take. but i ask for your understanding that we cannot keep on changing roles. we have clear areas, and the commission is responsible for them. i cannot anticipate the answer of the commission, which will not be present at today's question time. i can only offer to ask again so that you, as the representatives of the citizens, can get a clear and appropriate answer from the commission.
we continue the debate on the report by mr klich on an area of freedom, security and justice: strategy for the external dimension - action plan for the implementation of the hague programme.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, the external dimension is essential in building the area of freedom, security and justice. i therefore welcome the fact that parliament has drawn up the klick report on this subject. there are threats such as terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking and illegal immigration which are global, international in nature and which the european union and its member states cannot tackle alone. the cooperation of third countries and, above all, of neighbours is essential. i would like to emphasize three basic ideas. the first is that building this space is an essential objective. the european union and its member states must therefore give priority to cooperation with third countries in their external action. the second is that this cooperation should not therefore be the sole responsibility of the very active and competent commissioner for justice, freedom and security, or the jha council, but also of the commissioner and the foreign affairs council, the high representative and the commissioner for cooperation. the klich report therefore places particular emphasis on this necessary coordination. thirdly, i share many of the views expressed in the commission's 2005 communication on the external dimension of the area of freedom, security and justice. but in the chapter on the principles governing policies towards third countries, i would have included the principle of positive conditionality. in other words, we must encourage and stimulate cooperation with third countries. we cannot be indifferent to whether or not they cooperate with the european union. for example, in a matter which is unfortunately so topical in spain, such as illegal immigration, it should not be the same whether or not third countries sign readmission agreements, whether or not they help to identify and document their nationals, whether or not they pursue or tolerate the activities of organised mafias which traffic in illegal immigrants. we must ask them, firmly, for their cooperation in all these matters and reward it accordingly. we should also monitor and evaluate this cooperation. and in this sense there is already an evaluation mechanism, established after the thessaloniki european council in 2003. ladies and gentlemen, we are in a globalised world, so interdependent that without the cooperation of third countries, the security and freedom of our citizens and the control of migration flows will be more fragile and more difficult to guarantee.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council framework decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information on criminal records between member states (com (2005) 0690 - c6-0052/2006 - 2005/0267 (cns)) (a6-0170/2007).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, at present information on criminal records does not circulate efficiently between the member states of the eu. this is not acceptable in a european area of freedom, security and justice and that is why the objective of the eu in the area of criminal records is twofold: firstly, to improve the circulation of information on criminal records between the member states and, secondly, to use this information outside the territory of the sentencing member state. as you know, in 2005 the commission adopted two legislative proposals dealing with these aspects respectively. a proposal dealing with the second aspect – circulation of information – was adopted in december 2006. political agreement on the proposal dealing with the circulation of information was fortunately reached by the council of interior ministers in luxembourg on 13 june. this instrument is another important step forward. in improving the way in which information is exchanged and made available to member states, it radically overhauls the outdated, inefficient system of information exchange under the convention on mutual legal assistance of 1959. in its place, it establishes a streamlined system that will ensure that information stored in a single member state is updated and then accessible to other member states. in addition, the information will be easier to understand and, therefore, of greater value to the end users. i note, with regret, that member states have decided that the follow-up work should take the form of council decisions and, even more regrettably, member states do not trust each other enough to accept that these implementing measures will be adopted not by qualified majority but by unanimity. i know that there are some amendments and i thank the rapporteur for the quality of his report. i share the spirit of the great majority of all the amendments proposed. i have a reservation concerning the amendments that propose the introduction of general provisions on data protection. why? because this instrument is a sectoral one: it contains a small number of provisions on data protection which are specific to criminal records and therefore they are more restrictive. therefore, my worry is that the application of general provisions on data protection will be too flexible and less restrictive. that aside, personal data handled as part of the implementation of the framework decision should be protected in accordance with the provisions of the future framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. you all know perfectly well that i am urging the council to find an agreement on such an important framework decision on privacy protection by the end of this year.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for their cooperation in this report and especially the alternative rapporteurs, mrs buitenweg, mrs vălean and mrs grabowska. information on criminal convictions is exchanged between member states through the mechanisms provided for in the european convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters of 1959, but this mechanism is seriously flawed. these dysfunctions were dramatically brought to light in the case of fourniret, a frenchman who was sentenced in the 1980s to seven years in prison for the rape of a minor and who was released after serving two years. years later, we learned that from his release until his rearrest in june 2003, fourniret had killed nine girls and was suspected of killing 12 others. he had managed to escape justice for more than 14 years simply by changing his address from one member state to another, where he also got a job at a school. it was clear that the mechanisms for exchanging information on criminal records needed to be modified and improved. the proposal for a council framework decision aims to replace the mechanisms for the exchange of information provided for in article 22 of the 1959 convention and to repeal the decision of 21 november 2005, all in order to ensure that the member state of nationality is able to provide a correct, prompt and comprehensive response to requests for information it receives in relation to convictions imposed on its nationals. as regards the measures contained in the council proposal, the following should be noted: - the principle of centralisation of information is maintained; - the framework is established to contribute to the design and development of a computerised system for the exchange of information on criminal convictions, based on the use of a standard european format which makes it possible to exchange information in a homogeneous, computerised and easily translatable manner by means of automated mechanisms; - the principle of compulsory transmission to the member state of nationality is included, eliminating the exemption from notification where the person also holds the nationality of the member state of conviction; and, finally, - the obligation to retain the information transmitted to the state of nationality is imposed. as regards the parliamentary measures proposed, i would like to highlight the following: - in order to ensure the integrity and authenticity of the information transmitted, the member state imposing a conviction should be regarded as the owner of the data relating to the judgments handed down by its courts and tribunals; - the future framework decision should provide for a set of additional safeguards in the field of the protection of personal data; - as regards the definition of conviction, in order to be consistent with other reports of this parliament, the definition contained in the report by my dear friend and colleague mr demou should be maintained; - the inclusion of convictions in the criminal records register of the member state of conviction is a necessary prerequisite, as it ensures the accuracy and correctness of the information transmitted; therefore, only information relating to convictions once recorded should be transmitted, but it is not necessary to clarify whether the data are to be retained before the conviction is handed down; - it is necessary to ensure that the other legal requirements, such as the nationality of the convicted person, the law of the member state of conviction, are met, or, on the contrary, whether the criminal liability for the offence is to be set aside, the responsibility of the offence is not only legally necessary, but also clearly established by the member state of the offence, for example, by the law of the nationality of the offence, or the offence, or the offence, the offence, the offence, the offence, the offence, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, as regards the conditions of use, mr frattini, i really share your concern about personal data. the proposal is much more restrictive than the existing provisions on judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which is justified by the speed with which background information can become outdated. therefore, whenever the criminal record of a person is sought for the purpose of a new criminal proceeding, a new request for information will be necessary. i would like to conclude, mr president, by asking the honourable members to vote in favour of the report's proposal and thanking them for their attention.
mr president, i have asked to speak because of some unacceptable allusions, but i have asked to speak mainly to thank my colleague carlos coelho, who has spoken not only as a friend but also as a person who knows what he is talking about. one word to demand rectification and an apology from mr kohlíček. mr kohlíček, ignorance, bad faith or immoral obedience is the only thing that justifies your unfortunate intervention in this house tonight. i am sure, mr kohlíček, that you have heard - i hope you have heard - about the presumption of innocence; i am sure that you have heard about the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 48 thereof; i am sure that you have heard about the universal declaration of human rights of 1948 and article 11 thereof. i do not think you are aware, and you need not be aware, of article 24 of the spanish constitution. but in all free and democratic constitutions there is an article 48, there is an article 11 and there is an article 24. so i hope that when you are in a position to understand what the presumption of innocence means, but above all when you are in a position to know the truth of the case which you, as you have said, are ignorant of from beginning to end, you will be in a position to make a private and public apology, and i will be in a position to accept it. unfortunate and unacceptable intervention to close the debate tonight, mr kohlicek. (applause from the right and the centre)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the report by mrs martine roure, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the progress of the negotiations on the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia (2007/2067 (ini)) (a6-0151/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr hubert pirker, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on asylum: practical cooperation, quality of decisionmaking in the common european asylum system (2006/2184 (ini)) (a6-0182/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened carefully to the discussion on the proposal for a directive on the review of the remedies directives in the area of public procurement and i would like to thank members sincerely for all their comments. in closing, let me stress a few key points. first, we cannot establish a truly open and competitive market for public procurement without effective remedies for businesses seeking redress. second, this is crucial to making sure that public contracts ultimately go to the company which has made the best offer. third, we really need to further reassure businesses, public administration and citizens that public procurement procedures are fair. later today, parliament has the opportunity to endorse a proposal which reflects the views it has already expressed in the report by its lead committee. on behalf of commissioner mccreevy, i would again like to thank the rapporteur, mr fruteau, and parliament for the importance they have attached to the subject and to stress that parliament’s vote is a historic occasion to contribute to fair and more competitive public procurement in europe.
member of the commission. mr president, i am really very pleased to be here today to discuss with you this very important topic of how we can improve consumer confidence in the digital environment. i would like to start my speech by thanking mrs roithová and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent and very close cooperation – and this is not just a matter of courtesy, but a sincere recognition of very hard work. i am glad that the commission and the european parliament agree on a common line in approaching this very important and challenging issue. this is clearly an important and ambitious report, and i think we all broadly share the same objectives and analyses of the problems. the digital economy – and more specifically e-commerce – has great potential to improve consumer welfare by making a greater range of products available, boosting price competition and developing new markets. it is also central to completing the retail side of the internal market. at present, retail markets are still fragmented along national lines into mini-markets, as mrs roithová indicated. this makes no sense in the age of e-commerce and the internet. e-commerce is changing the face of retail, but only at national level. the internet is borderless but consumers, businesses and regulators are not. fifty per cent of european consumers who have a computer at home have made an e-commerce purchase in the previous 12 months, but only 12% of those with a computer at home bought cross-border. this indicates the need for action to increase consumer confidence on the retail side of the internal market and the necessity to solve the fragmentation of the market to achieve finally a citizens’ market. as you know, since the beginning of the year we have launched two major initiatives for consumers: the consumer policy strategy and the consultation on the review of existing consumer protection legislation. our objective as a commission is to help the eu rise to the challenges of growth and jobs and reconnecting with its citizens. this objective will be met if, by 2013, we can credibly demonstrate to all citizens that they can shop from anywhere in the eu – from corner shop to website – confident that they are equally and effectively protected. the need to improve consumer confidence in the digital economy runs through every aspect of this strategy. mrs roithová’s report shows that the obstacles – including regulatory obstacles – are numerous. my predecessors made progress in tackling some of them with the unfair commercial practices directive and the regulation on consumer protection cooperation, which established the european consumer centre (ecc) network. my priority now is to tackle the remaining obstacles, with the reform of existing consumer protection legislation related to consumer contracts. as you know, we have initiated a broad consultation on the future of consumer protection, and we have started to analyse reactions from the stakeholders. we are looking forward to mrs petre’s report after the summer. your views and your support will be an important reference for our follow-up work and for specific proposals. the commission’s follow-up to the review of the acquis is a basis on which build consumer trust. the development of standardised consumer contracts may be something to investigate further once this solid base is established. one of the aims of this exercise is to reduce the regulatory fragmentation of the internal market by targeted harmonisation of issues that cause particular problems for consumers and businesses. we will, inter alia, consider whether standards and standardisation can play a role in this process. similarly for self-regulation. the commission has done some important work to establish a best practice model for self- and co-regulation, and we will continue to do so in the future. i share your concerns about the interplay of different legislation governing online transactions or digital goods. there are many precise laws, and consumers and businesses may not be sufficiently aware of their rights and duties in the digital environment. i will examine how best to clarify these issues with my colleagues, mrs reding and mr mccreevy. thanks to your input, we will explore the idea of a practical guide which would cover information society services and help citizens to understand their rights better. i would also like to thank you for insisting on the importance of enforcement – i fully agree with you. quality legislation is not enough if it is not backed up by effective enforcement. we have set up a network of national enforcers in the european union and we will now gradually enlarge the network to third country partners in order to enhance its efficiency. in conclusion, i would like to thank you for your commitment to helping european citizens to enjoy all the benefits of the internal market and the digital economy. i look forward to working with you to fulfil our common goals and to achieve a citizens’ internal market.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, thank you, mrs roithová, for this excellent report. consumer confidence in the digital medium depends to a large extent on the protection and clarity we can give the consumer in that medium. we must also take into account that smes are also consumers, and the european union must encourage the use of these new technologies and encourage smes to participate in online markets. at the same time, consumer confidence in such platforms needs to be promoted by ensuring that transactions are carried out in a transparent and fair manner. consumers need to be aware of their obligations and rights in the digital world. in some products, such as mp3 players, dvds and computer games, the consumer is forced to accept very strict conditions in the small print, and in some cases this borders on illegality and violates the right to privacy. at the same time, manufacturers of these devices are expanding the use of digital rights management systems to prevent unauthorized copying. this creates fear, which can undermine consumer confidence. and to solve the interoperability problem, you need open standards that allow for a safer, more open and more reliable environment. software patents are also a serious threat to software developers in smes who cannot afford the legal costs. fear in this environment is not compatible with the confidence of both smes and consumers. digital platforms can only facilitate growth and development if they are based on open and interoperable standards. standards can contribute to a less fragmented market and the use of open source software can also contribute significantly to the promotion of online security. improving consumer safety and confidence depends on a few keys: legislation, enforcement mechanisms and the creation of regulatory instruments such as codes of conduct and trust marks.
in writing. my vote in favour, like that of the other members of the spanish socialist delegation, reflects the intention not to paralyse the legislative procedure to which this report refers and the fact that i agree with the outcome of the consultation of parliament, as approved by the committee on civil liberties. however, i would like to denounce, by means of the following explanation of vote, the suitability of the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, who was fined and charged with contempt for refusing to cooperate with the court which is judging the alleged perpetrators of the very serious attacks of 11 september, the largest terrorist attack on european soil, which took place when he was director of police. in view of the seriousness of his conduct, the judge has initiated the preliminary procedures for the submission of a plea to the european parliament. i therefore consider that the attitude of mr díaz de mera of disobedience to the court and the content of his statements are incompatible with the role of rapporteur of the european parliament for reports on judicial and police cooperation between member states and the fight against terrorism, and affect the credibility of the parliament.
author. - madam president, i would first of all like to express my concern that this point concerning relations between the european union and the cuban government has replaced, in terms of urgency, another issue which i considered to be much more important and much more urgent, such as the situation of the refugee population in iraq. this is particularly worrying when, in reality, the underlying reason for this amendment has less to do with a fact concerning the caribbean island than with the already usual tendency of some of my colleagues in the pp to use the european parliament to make their particular opposition to the spanish government. it is not for me to defend the position of the spanish government; i am not a member of this government or its party, but i am concerned that such an important forum as the thursday afternoon session, devoted to situations of human rights violations in the world, is being questioned by such initiatives which are contrary to the very spirit of these debates. on the other hand, i would also like to recall that the council already adopted its conclusions on relations with the cuban government on monday, in which it once again reiterated its intention to maintain dialogue with civil society and offered to resume dialogue with the cuban government on the basis of mutual, reciprocal and non-discriminatory interest. cuba must make a lot of progress on issues such as freedoms, rights, especially political rights, and democratic openness, but, i repeat, this is not new, it is not an emergency; moreover, i believe that the council's position adopted on monday sets the parameters for moving in that direction, especially insofar as it departs from the united states' strategy based on a sterile confrontation and an embargo that is both ineffective and irresponsible, among other things, precisely because it makes it difficult to carry out certain reforms inside the island that would allow a more orderly transition. as we have said in our resolution, the greens/efa resolution, cooperation must be an instrument for development in order to achieve the millennium development goals and not a tool for political ends.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would like to reiterate what mr romeva has just said. the only reason why this issue has been raised here is because it is a matter of spanish internal policy which has nothing to do with the situation in the country in question. the people's party has instead preferred not to discuss a really important urgent matter, which is the issue of iraq. at this moment there are two million iraqi refugees inside the country and another two million who have been forced to leave iraq. and right now, countries, instead of welcoming these poor people who are fleeing the bombings and the killing in iraq, are sending them back to their home countries. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in iraq, but we should be concerned about the situation in iraq. this is a case of absolute inhumanity and it is not appropriate at this time for us to forget the plight of these people. so from our point of view, i think that this urgency is absolutely inappropriate and that we have missed the opportunity to deal with a case of real humanitarian urgency at a time when action had to be taken. there has been a conference on iraq very recently where this issue has been discussed, a number of resolutions have been adopted, and this parliament is unable to follow up on them because it prefers to deal with domestic policy issues rather than dealing with the real problems which concern humanity at this time.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sure that this time we will agree with mr cappato. madam president, i wish to speak precisely to support and acknowledge the work that some of our colleagues have been doing in relation to ethiopia for a long time and, in particular, that of our comrade ana gomes, not only because of the mission that took place at the time, but also because in all these years she has been denouncing and raising the situation in ethiopia very seriously. i believe that support for this resolution which we are going to adopt today can be fundamental to changing the course of the situation in ethiopia. it was significant, from my point of view, to see how both the chairman and the vice-chairman of the commission of inquiry into the events that took place two years ago had to flee the country, precisely because of the pressure exerted by the meles government on the results of their inquiry. this is something we cannot keep quiet about, especially when it was the european union that pushed, motivated and legitimized the elections in that country two years ago. it is therefore clear that the situation is worrying, it is serious and it requires an immediate response.
as has already been pointed out by other colleagues and as has been repeatedly stated in the reports of the united nations special representative for human rights in myanmar, mr paulo sérgio pinheiro, and the special representative of the un secretary-general for human rights defenders, hina jilani, the situation in burma is worrying and is getting worse by the day. i would like to begin by recalling the requests that have been made in this house on other occasions and that we must make again. it is absolutely unacceptable to extend the confinement of aung san suu kyi for another year, and that is why we must call on the government, on the burmese regime, to suspend it as soon as possible. it is also important to demand, once again, the release of all political prisoners and the guarantee of freedom of expression and freedom of demonstration, which are currently being violated in that country. but on the other hand, i also think it is important to remember the responsibility, as regards investment, that we as western countries have towards that country, and i say this because there are at least two elements that are key. first of all, let us not forget that burma now has one of the largest, if not the largest, natural gas reserves in the whole of south-east asia. and this is something that, logically, is very attractive. it is therefore essential that, in the case of any foreign international investment, we ensure that there is at least an analysis of the impact of such investments on human rights. and this is something that we forget too often. and secondly, i think it is important to remember that at the moment the sanctions imposed by the united states, as well as the restrictions imposed by the european union, are not being effective. and the fact that many asian countries are also clearly increasing their investments in that country forces us to also take a regional approach to the problem to ensure that, in some way, our actions, as well as those of our allies, are more effective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has not yet reached a decision on the budget. the commission is not prepared to accept this. you have fulfilled your duty as president of the council. the european parliament had asked you to convene an intergovernmental conference and to resume the constitutional path of the european union, a path which has brought us peace and prosperity and which now represents a model of democracy and solidarity in the face of a globalised world. after a two-year period of reflection, the majority of states and citizens voted to move forward with the future of europe. despite some of the cancellations, which i hope will not affect the cohesion of the eu, we have helped those who had difficulties with the treaty. we now have a mandate to draw up this reform treaty, and we consider that to be a positive thing. it contains a clear commitment to the eu's principles, values and objectives. the legal binding force of the charter of fundamental rights should, in my view, be enshrined in the treaty immediately after the preamble. the extension of the codecision procedure and the qualified majority voting are also positive. i regret, however, that clarity and transparency have been lost. the symbols, the flag and the anthem also bear witness to the joy and freedom of europe, as beethoven and schiller emphasized. i can assure you that we will continue to use these symbols and hold them with real pride. madam president-in-office of the council, it is with this conviction that we will now work together in the intergovernmental conference with the national parliaments and civil society to strengthen the european union constitutionally. we will continue to fight along the path which mr hallstein has called constructio continua and which mr monnet has called 'step by step'. and like sherpas, step by step, we climb the himalayas.
mr president, we must certainly congratulate chancellor merkel and, in particular, the president of the european commission, who is now achieving his second great success, after the adoption of the financial perspective, because we have avoided a certain risk of crisis. many in this house could have hoped for more, but it must be admitted that this is an agreement which is perfectly consistent with the community method. i am convinced that we will continue to function perfectly well until 2014 or, exceptionally, for three more years, with the decision-making procedure adopted in nice which, in the end - i would like to remind you of this - was adopted precisely to deal with enlargement. and i hope that, to complete the institutional package, the allocation of the 20 seats remaining in the european parliament will be made for the 2009 elections, of course, and strictly in accordance with the criteria of proportionality, that is to say, that it will be done in a fully democratic way. in line with the progress made in the field of justice and home affairs, i wonder if the igc could take the opportunity to provide the european coordinator for the fight against terrorism with content and functions. i believe that this figure reflects an objective need and, of course, a sensitivity that is very much present among european citizens, as the latest eurobarometer survey shows. i am sure that the european commission services will be watching to see that the terrorist group eta is called what it is. and in this same vein i am pleased to see that the peace process in northern ireland is mentioned in the last point of the conclusions, but i am also surprised to see that there is not even a single reference to the threat posed to european citizens and, in particular, to the spanish people by the breaking of the eta truce. any occasion is a good one to express the solidarity of the european institutions with those who every day see their freedom and even their lives endangered.
mr president, may this speech serve as a warning to the european parliament and the european institutions about accidents at work in the union. spain is currently the country with the highest number of accidents at work, accounting for 20% of all accidents in the european union. we are faced with a very serious fact: in my country alone there are 7 600 accidents for every 100 000 employees. we are faced with a figure which shows the need for a change of direction in economic growth, a wild growth which does not take into account the quality of employment. in spain, on average, three workers die at their jobs every week. last week, two people died while dismantling the stage for the rolling stones concert at the vicente calderón stadium in madrid. in carboneras (almeria) four workers also died. these figures indicate the need for radical change to achieve quality employment and to put an end to accidents at work and temporary work.
opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. - mr president, the committee on legal affairs was asked by the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to give its opinion on the appropriate legal basis for the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a uniform authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings. the committee on legal affairs has studied the matter and, firstly, we find that it is perfectly possible to have two different legal bases. we have, for example, the court of justice's decision of 1988 in the case of commission v council, which provides for this possibility of a dual legal basis where the objectives of the protection of individuals and the functioning of the internal market coincide. we believe that this directive is a coincidence. it is not simply a directive aimed at maintaining the internal market but also a directive which aims to provide the highest level of legal protection. there is no difficulty in the procedural aspect, because the procedure is the same: the codecision procedure. however, we believe that the legal basis of article 95 'based exclusively on the internal market' is not sufficient and that it should therefore be reinforced by article 175 (1), which concerns the protection of the health of individuals.
mr president, commissioner, i shall be speaking on the flavour regulation, and i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs murko, for the cooperation we have had and the good agreements we have reached. firstly, i have to welcome the commission's proposal, because it updates the legislation, while simplifying the approval procedures, centralising the risk assessment for marketing flavourings and the establishment of a positive list in the european food safety authority (efsa). the contribution of parliament to this report is also important and has been very well coordinated by mrs murko. we think that the comitology procedure is appropriate and we agree with it, provided that it does not deprive parliament of the possibility of examining it when it deems it appropriate. it is necessary to extend the application of the regulation to frozen spices and herbs, as technology requires. natural aromas must be labelled as such, because the consumer has a right to know this. as regards foods and food ingredients derived from genetically modified organisms (gmos) which meet the requirements of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed and those of this regulation, they should be subject to a single efsa assessment valid for both authorisation procedures. they should not be subject to two different procedures for the same purpose. natural herbs and spices have very particular characteristics and i think the solution that has been reached, namely to remove them from the annex, is a good one. the transitional period, which is not provided for in the regulation, is also a necessity as long as the existing legislation is in force. the amendments tabled by the european people's party go in this direction.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the energy package, which is a package of measures to be taken by the member states to ensure that the union's energy supply is not affected by the consequences of the crisis. the report which this house will adopt tomorrow answers the main questions raised by the commission in relation to this last paragraph, the internal market. the text adopted in the committee on industry, research and energy, agreed with all the political groups, shows that there is clear agreement on most of the issues and we hope that commissioner piebalgs will find our contributions useful in the run-up to the adoption of the third liberalisation package in september. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. the current system 27 member states, 27 different rules is a serious obstacle to the internal market, in particular as regards cross-border trade and the promotion of interconnections. it is therefore proposed that a european-wide body be set up to deal with these issues. we also welcome the council's firm commitment to achieving 10% interconnections between member states, which is of particular relevance for the peripheral states. at national level, it is called for national regulators to be fully independent of governments and industry and for their powers to be strengthened so that they can ensure that the law is complied with. regulators must ensure that markets are transparent, open to all and that there is no abuse by existing companies. we also agree that regulated tariffs should be phased out. this is the case in several member states where this type of tariff is used to prevent new companies from entering the market; in some cases it is so low that it does not reflect costs, which sends a false signal to the consumer. we are in a period in which a radical change in consumption habits is necessary and to achieve an optimisation of energy resources it is necessary that citizens are fully aware of their real value. the report also introduces a social chapter, reminding member states that the completion of a competitive energy market must not in any case lead to a weakening of consumer rights and that obligations towards the vulnerable sections of society must remain in place. the most hot topic in the report is the separation of ownership between the generation and transmission levels of electricity. it is the majority view of the committee on industry, research and energy that this separation of ownership provides us with an appropriate measure to achieve greater transparency, to secure investments and to guarantee access for new entrants to the market. these are the main points of the report, mr president, and i can only thank the directorates-general for translation and publishing and the bureau of this parliament for their invaluable help. without it it would not have been possible to conclude this report in just four months, in time to achieve an effective presence in the legislative process. i would also like to highlight the excellent cooperation with the alternative rapporteurs and the political groups. it has been a real pleasure to negotiate this report with them and let us hope that the vote tomorrow will bring a happy end to all this work.
madam president, we agree on the need for a genuine internal energy market which is transparent and open and which contributes to reducing costs for citizens and businesses. the internal market should stimulate efficiency and investment, contribute to security of supply and allow even small firms to access the energy market. since 1990 the priority has been market realization, but this is not a sufficient response, as the reality in many states shows. almost all member states have problems in this respect. what is needed is to continue along the path we have started, namely the construction of a common energy policy that offers everyone confidence and a clear framework to achieve the objectives proposed by the commission in 2009. finally, given the importance of the social dimension of energy policy, the inclusion of measures to combat energy poverty is to be welcomed. the need to urge the commission to present its proposal for a consumer charter by the end of 2007 should also be emphasised. congratulations to the rapporteur.
madam president, commissioner, i too am convinced that, in order to make progress towards the establishment of a competitive internal market for gas and electricity, the line of the vidal-quadras report is the right one: to propose the complete separation of ownership, to protect consumers, to increase transparency, to strengthen bilateral cooperation and the independence of regulators and to raise the level of interconnection between the member states. in this connection, it is very important to speed up the appointment of coordinators for projects which are experiencing difficulties in implementation. a better investment climate for interconnection capacity requires a european transmission network for gas and electricity with european medium- and long-term planning and overseen by a possible board of regulators. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the time i think will be shorter the more we are able to avoid using the difficulties that individual member states encounter in their path in a partisan way. we must all work together to move in the direction we believe is right: this is our responsibility as european parliamentarians and this can also be our success.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the use of mercury in the manufacture of products. it is appropriate to introduce restrictions at community level on the marketing of measuring and control equipment containing mercury for use by private individuals, with some exceptions in the health sector. we want to prevent considerable amounts of mercury from entering the waste stream. in this way we will contribute to ensuring a higher level of protection of the environment and human health and to the preservation of the internal market, in accordance with article 95 of the treaty. mercury and its components are extremely toxic to humans, ecosystems and nature. mercury pollution, which began as a diffuse local problem long ago, is now recognized as a global, chronic and serious problem. as regards the possibility of a total ban on the use of mercury in all measuring devices covered by this proposal, it should be noted that the experts consulted have concluded that hospitals need very precise devices to treat potentially life-threatening conditions such as hypertension, arrhythmia and pre-eclampsia. mercury sphincter manometers ensure the precision and reliability necessary to preserve patient safety, so for the time being in this proposal we advocate exempting these instruments from the ban until there are full guarantees about the operation of possible alternative instruments. i would also like to stress again to the commission the need for it to take short-term measures to ensure that all mercury-containing products currently in circulation are separately collected and safely treated, otherwise this directive would lose its practical effect. on the production of new traditional mercury barometers, which has been the most controversial item in this parliament, we proposed an agreement that there should be a two-year transitional period for manufacturers to adapt to the new standards. unfortunately, not all the political groups have signed it, although i believe that we will have a sufficient majority in this house to approve it. as for the manufacturers of these barometers, i would like to say that they will have this two-year transitional period to stop using mercury in their industrial processes, which will not cause them any competitive disadvantage or economic damage, since we know that they have been manufacturing this type of barometer for some time without using mercury. it is necessary to remind our citizens that these devices can be a danger to health and the environment, since they can easily break and end up in landfills, or, worse still, when they are incinerated, mercury is dispersed into the atmosphere, polluting the air, the soil and the water. this is how mercury enters the food chain, first in fish, and then in us humans. as this house is well aware, the committee on the environment has rejected by a majority, at this second reading, the amendments tabled to allow the manufacture of new mercury barometers to continue. i think it would be irresponsible for us to accept this request and i therefore ask all the honourable members to vote against it, as the council and the european commission also propose, and i thank them for all their efforts to avoid a possible compromise. finally, i would again ask the commission to raise public awareness by organizing information campaigns on the health risks of exposure to mercury and the environmental problems that this substance can cause, since i fear that the public is still not sufficiently informed about its toxicity. i am grateful to the commission for its work and for the opportunity to reach an agreement at second reading. i would also like to thank the council and the political groups who have supported this proposal.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, today the president of the european parliament, mr pöttering, referred to this report by mrs hennis-plasschaert when condemning the latest and recent terrorist attacks both on european territory where airports were the targets and in third countries such as yemen in the case of the murdered spanish tourists. in the latter case, the objective was not specifically an infrastructure, but tourists travelling in a vehicle on a road. this reference once again highlights or reinforces the importance of this exercise which the commission is proposing to us and for which i am very grateful to the commissioner. this is not a single measure, but rather a long process which started in 2004 and is now being translated into increasingly interesting and effective measures. given the complexity of our european society, which is based on these complex and open networks of communication, supply and services and on which the economy is based, we must defend them and defend ourselves against the vulnerability they can present to terrorist attacks and attacks. i would like to say that my group was more in agreement with the commission's initial and original proposal regarding the definition of european critical infrastructure, in the sense of infrastructure shared by two or more countries, or of a state affected by an infrastructure of another member state. for us, for example, the eurotunnel could be a good example of how to apply this optimal protection against possible attacks, not to mention airports, etc., where we have already suffered such attacks. so tomorrow we will maintain this position in the sense of the original commission proposal, because we want to continue to hope that perhaps in the council we will find a greater echo. we would prefer to continue to grow towards more integrated and european approaches, and we would prefer to avoid savings which seemingly avoid costs but which we might regret in the future. we do support everything mrs hennis-plasschaert says about protection against third countries; we support everything relating to the protection of individual data that appear to be involved; we support, of course, everything relating to the necessary confidentiality. we already have a long experience in dealing with this confidentiality, both at national and commission level, and we do not believe that it will be breached in this case. we hope that this will overcome the regressive position that we had to accept in the committee on transport and tourism and which my group still does not share. we hope that with the proposal that will be voted on tomorrow we can make further progress and that both with what parliament proposes - and i thank mrs hennis-plasschaert and all the colleagues for their great work in this - and with what the council proposes we can achieve better protection of our european critical infrastructures.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs wallis, on the work she has done. i think we will get a good agreement, that parliament will support this proposal by a majority and that we will have a new regulation on non-contractual liability. i would point out, however, that this regulation is only going to be the beginning. there is a fundamental difficulty in the whole field of private international law and in the conflict of laws, which is the sheer inability of judges to apply a law other than their own. in the european union as in general we have trained judges to apply their own law. as soon as a question arises in which they have to apply foreign law, there are enormous difficulties. it is clear that if two englishmen have a traffic accident in france, they will apply the french traffic rules - they could not consider that the driver on the left is the one who acted correctly. now, in the second part, with regard to the civil liability to be determined, if the judge is english, i have great difficulty in thinking that he would accept the application of the rules of limitation of liability which exist in french law and that he would not apply the rules of english law. so i think, as i said before, this is a work in progress. commissioner frattini referred to a subsequent study by the commission - which is also referred to in the draft regulation - which is the applicability of the law by the courts. i think this is the second part, a second essential part. those of us who have worked in this area have seen that there is a general tendency for courts to apply their own law, the law of the forum. therefore, this convention or this regulation cannot be interpreted without taking into account the applicable jurisdiction at any given time. in large part, the court will determine the applicable law because judges usually resort to any subterfuge. here, for example, we have eliminated the subterfuge of referral, but there is still the whole issue of public policy - the public policy clauses - which contain the mandatory provisions of national law contained in the draft convention. i therefore have the impression that, on the basis that this parliament will approve by a large majority the proposal put to us by mrs wallis, once it has been approved we will have to continue working on this matter. we are certainly looking forward with great anxiety to the commission's studies on this subject and, above all, to an important element, namely the work with the people who will have to apply this regulation: the judges themselves. we wonder what the attitude of the judges is and what the practice will be in applying this regulation, since the experience with international conventions and with the application of the rules of private international law of the states shows us this general tendency for the judges to apply their own national law.
the next item is the report (a6-0246/2007) by mr markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 97/67/ec as regards the completion of the internal market for community postal services (com (2006) 0594 c6-0354/2006 2006/0196 (cod)).
mr president, we appreciate the rapporteur's attitude on this occasion, mr ferber, for, still taking a radical and simplistic liberalising position, which even made national interests transparent, he decided from the outset to accept commitments which provide a greater base of support for this parliament in a report as important as this one. but my special recognition and congratulations go to brian simpson, who has achieved the commitments, for the difficult and thankless but successful exercise he has made in achieving fundamental objectives for our group: firstly, to maintain and protect the definition of universal service in its most demanding sense, which ensures economic, social and territorial cohesion, with a daily presence throughout our territory, at an affordable price and with a quality public service. this was necessary to clarify and ensure sufficient financial stability, and we did not share the commission's unclear position, and that is why we believe that the exercise which the member states must carry out is not a mere formality and we demand that the commission takes it very seriously. we also consider the social safeguard clauses to be fundamental, and we call on the commission and the member states to develop and implement them fully. we therefore encourage trade unions, operators and regulators to work on them in depth, so that this exercise goes hand in hand with that of the member states. at a time when we are fighting against precarious employment, against unemployment for women and for quality local services for citizens, we felt a great responsibility to make these conditions worse. we therefore believe that the challenges of the future are to ensure the financing of universal service in a stable and secure manner and to guarantee quality employment in this sector. parliament will be very vigilant to ensure that this is the case.
madam president, financial services are a strategic source of efficiency and prosperity in a globalised economy. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ieke van den burg, on her report, which is a profound reflection and a valuable contribution to the future of financial services policy, by setting out important guidelines for exploiting its potential: firstly, building on our strengths, following the line of the march resolution to remove obstacles to facilitate transeuropean acquisitions and the acquisition of shares in banking, insurance and investment companies, so that our operators can take advantage of the internal market and prepare to compete with global engines. second, by reducing weaknesses. there is a clear example in rating activities where this weakness exists as a result of a regulatory vacuum and the absence of european operators. the report proposes an appropriate treatment in both cases. third, by controlling risks, both those affecting overall financial stability and operational risks resulting from market distortions or malfunctions and unfair practices or insider dealing, or those resulting from the excessive concentration of some high-end financial services activities in large companies, such as rating agencies, large auditors and investment banks. the treatment is equally correct: on the one hand, close monitoring by the competition authorities to prevent abuses and barriers to new entrants, on the other hand, demanding that the commission, following its approach of sectoral studies, examine the situation in depth and, finally, making progress in the integration of european financial supervision. as regards the architecture of financial supervision, although the current system is not perfect, it is working reasonably well and deserves an evolutionary approach such as the one proposed by the rapporteur. the cooperation between supervisory authorities needs to be strengthened and this will only be possible with a european perspective, i.e. moving towards a common european culture and through practices which allow national supervisors not only to have similar practices but also powers and mandates which make it possible to use new techniques and instruments.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to comment on amendment no 2, which refers to the role of the transmission system operators, in the text of the report the word 'institutional' appears. in the language of the european union, 'institutional' has a very specific meaning which is too high for what is intended here. so what i suggest is to replace the word 'institutional' with 'official'. the commission therefore welcomes the proposal to give the existing tso associations an official role, with formal obligations and objectives (etso+/gte+ solution).
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate jacek protasiewicz on the consensus effort he is trying to make and which i hope will be successful tomorrow. there was no doubt that a joint reflection was needed on what the rules meant for regulating the labour market, and i believe that the green paper has provided a good opportunity to do so. since the luxembourg summit, new challenges and problems have emerged, for example immigration and an ageing population, and in 1997 - we remember - the aim was simply to encourage job creation. today, in a period of greater economic dynamism, we are not only opting for full employment but also for quality employment. i am referring to the fact that we are seeking better working conditions, more efficient business management, a balance between work and family life, lifelong learning and also stability. and therein lies the first flaw i find in the report. stability cannot be at odds with parttime contracts. the report disqualifies this type of contract and only defends full-time contracts, forgetting how necessary these types of contracts, which can also be indefinite and stable, are for reconciling work and family life. the report also criminalizes and forgets temporary contracts, which are necessary, indispensable and irreplaceable in some sectors, such as tourism, hospitality, construction or agriculture, where it would be unthinkable to have indefinite contracts, because of the very function that is performed. i would also like to point out - and this is another point that can be made - that we know that in different countries the labour systems are different, very different from one country to another. the relations between the various social partners are also very complex, which makes it very difficult to legislate jointly at european level. we are more in favour of subsidiarity, but we are also in favour of the open method of coordination and of agreement between the social partners. we certainly do not want to give the commission a blank cheque so that it can act on labour law issues without taking account of the different countries and the different characteristics of each of them.
on behalf of the alde group. i have had the opportunity to read a newspaper article which said that the origin of man is in water, that without this liquid element we cannot live and that we adult humans are 75% nothing but water. in addition, three quarters of the surface of our planet is covered by water from the seas and oceans, and there is a constant cycle of water being transferred from the oceans to the atmosphere, from the atmosphere to the earth and finally back to the sea via the rivers. this makes it imperative to focus all our attention on the sustainability of the marine aquatic environment, especially when all the alarms have been sounded worldwide for some time now about the deterioration of the environment in general and climate change in particular. we believe that measures to improve water quality must be taken rapidly at all institutional levels - community, national, regional and local - and at the private level. in this connection, we wish to express our concern about the broad timetable contained in the proposal for a directive on a marine strategy. we believe that, as with air pollution and the ozone hole, we have little time left to act and reverse the current trend. if we don't do this soon, i'm afraid the degenerative process will be irreversible. we have therefore proposed that the timetable for drawing up the action plans for the new marine strategy be adapted as a matter of urgency, bringing them into line with other important union programmes, such as those financed by the erdf, the cohesion fund and also the agricultural policy, since there are also agricultural activities which end up dumping waste into the sea. we also believe that more accurate information on what is happening in the seas and oceans is needed. we are in favour of better coordination and networking of all european marine research institutes, either by promoting a european network or a european consortium and creating a maritime database accessible to all of them. we must improve training and information at all levels and disseminate best practice in pollution control and control. i would like to stress once again something i have been saying for years, namely that it is necessary to make it compulsory to install on ships devices - which have already been invented - for monitoring the emptying and cleaning of tanks and bilges, in the form of non-manipulable black boxes, which will be the best method of preventing deliberate dumping, and i say this without underestimating that this will be complemented by satellite inspection and monitoring. we must not forget the professional fishermen, who are an important population group whose way of life we must ensure for the future, avoiding the depopulation or invasion by wild urbanism of coastal or island populations. finally, we are in favour of applying the 'polluter pays' principle to the marine sector and of creating a community fund for the rebuilding and conservation of marine flora and fauna, based on the contributions of all industrial activities - energy, tourism, recreation and all kinds of activities - that pollute our seas.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking willi piecyk for the excellent work he has done as rapporteur, because it is clear that taking an integrated and lasting approach to marine management is vital for europe. activities essential to achieving the objectives of the lisbon agenda are carried out in the aquatic environment and the sea also represents other less commercial values, but which are linked to the identity and the deeper culture of our peoples. fisheries - and i regret this - have been somewhat blurred in this green paper, despite the fact that they are the exclusive competence of the commission and the subject of a common policy. in addition to its economic importance, fisheries are essential for the maintenance of employment and culture in many european regions. i am convinced that this sector will be one of the main beneficiaries of better integration with other sea-related policies, for example, improving the training and living and working conditions of seafarers or increasing investment in research, which is essential to understanding the functioning of the seas and oceans. as a european from galicia - a maritime region - i am convinced that this policy will play an essential role for the coastal regions, their towns and villages.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr degutis, for his excellent exercise of flexibility in accepting some of the proposals put forward by the various members. i would also like to congratulate the commissioner on his excellent presentation, because he has shown that this text is and will be an exercise in improving legislation once and for all, because it will help to update, simplify and consolidate in the best possible way a regulation which has become obsolete and which, given the development of the sector, needed to be updated quickly. in fact, all of this is beneficial for all the players in the sector, especially for passengers, in a sector as suffering as aviation. the lack of coherence between these types of regulations not only tends to distort the functioning of the internal market but also, in our view, leads to risks for the quality of service and for safety and working conditions. among the achievements or improvements introduced by parliament i would like to highlight, among others - and most of my colleagues have already pointed this out - the need for greater transparency and control of the financial situation of companies and operators in the sector. given the exponential growth of this sector and the emergence of sweet niches of potential customers - as is the case of immigrants, with increasing purchasing power thanks to the regularization of work, for example, in my country - it is much more urgent to apply strict rules and conditions to avoid the frauds and abuses that usually occur in the sale of tickets and also the lying offers of the companies that appear everywhere. we also think that the provisions to prevent and mitigate the social consequences of such fraud and possible bankruptcies are very reasonable. in this respect, price transparency and non-discrimination in purchasing, regardless of the channel through which the traveller purchases the tickets, also seem to us to be fundamental as improvements to this text. another aspect which i believe has emerged and has also improved is that of the social conditions for workers in the sector. the fact that we have avoided social dumping which distorts the economic and social game by preventing the game from being played with the posted workers employed by transnational companies operating on different bases has been an achievement and an improvement. even better, the debate which has opened up during the drafting of this report has led to the request, in amendment no 61, for a legislative proposal on social and working conditions, which i believe should be urgently tabled by the commission.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to congratulate mrs barsi-pataky warmly on her ability to synthesise a process and a procedure as magmatic as this green paper review, despite all the good intentions. but it was to be expected that all members would like to add some of the many ideas suggested by the commission's proposal. i also want to congratulate you on your ability to reach valid commitments, which will thus win the support of the whole parliament. it has struck a good balance between the essential objectives, such as modal shift, in favour of modes which are still underdeveloped and have great environmental advantages, such as railways and waterways, but at the same time it has been able to integrate them into a new concept of co-modality which has given it the most acceptable touch of realism for all the actors in the sector and which has reduced many of the pressures which prevented us from moving forward with more reasonable approaches. i remember one of the tragedies of community legislation - though not only community legislation - as its poor application. it is therefore essential to call for new instruments for this application. we also share and reinforce its criticism of the insufficient funding of the transeuropean networks and the rest of the transport measures at european level and we believe that it opens up prospects for the future which can be very useful to us for the 2008 debate, to achieve funding that is finally commensurate with our ambitions for european transport. we also welcome and thank you for your understanding in integrating transport into the heart of the lisbon strategy. we believe that this will enable the member states to be held fully responsible in both areas: the implementation of legislation and the provision of sufficient funding. we also find the pro-logistics approaches, which we will try to follow in the report we are currently developing, as well as the innovative solutions and their absolute and continuous support for intelligent transport systems to be hopeful. we also support her appeal to diversity and what has come of enlargement, which she knows better than anyone. we agree with your approach to the global approach and relations with third countries, which seems to us to be a future area for the whole subject of european transport. we also appreciate your support for the green paper on urban transport and finally we thank you for your understanding of the need to update your report on climate change by including the latest council proposal on reducing co2 emissions. the only thing i have to say to you at the end is that we will not be able to follow you in your support for the modular concept in paragraph 11 of your report, but i think that, through the proposal that perhaps mr grosch will provide us with, we will be able to solve that little problem between the two groups.
i would like to thank you, commissioner, for the information you have given us and for your work in favour of balanced relations which are beneficial to both sides. i want to say that we agree that china cannot be regarded as a threat to some sectors only, but also as a great opportunity. but we also agree that it must continue to make efforts to implement the agreements, to open its markets and to create a climate of openness to investment. as you have said, european industry continues to complain about the existence of too many barriers and obstacles which place it at a competitive disadvantage. we are still talking about tariff and non-tariff barriers, such as piracy, counterfeiting, discrimination between national and imported products, etc. in this respect, we consider that the opening of negotiations on a new association and cooperation agreement with china is a good initiative which should enable the european union to strengthen its bilateral trade policy on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, which you yourself have mentioned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in concrete terms, we must say that the chinese government is making progress in this area and that it is also appropriate to refer to the rights recognized by the international labour organization, an important element in the field of human rights. the agreement should, of course, serve to further promote a commitment by the chinese authorities to the effective protection of intellectual property rights, not just theoretical protection, by adopting appropriate administrative, legal and border control measures. i would like to refer to the 'memorandum of understanding' between the european union and china on trade for the textile and clothing sector, which expires this year. there is concern in the textile industry about the end of its term and the fact that the terms of the agreement signed between the united states and china are extended until the end of 2008. so, in view of this difference, i would also like you to tell us what measures can be taken to avoid situations of tension such as those which occurred in 2005.
mr president, let me begin with a point which has probably been repeated many times in the evening sessions, but we are discussing among ourselves a matter of such importance that i have the impression that we do not even have a representative of the chinese embassy in this sitting. i am quite confident that the reproduction of the verbatim debates which the services of this house do so effectively will enable them to read what we are saying. following on from the speech i have just made, i have to come to a conclusion: globalization as we are living it is unimaginable without the breakthrough of china. the presence of china on the world market has simply been a decisive and unquestionable fact, but let us not forget that it is a very recent one. the chinese penetration, which has been direct and massive in production, will be even more so in consumption and also in distribution worldwide, becoming one of the main determining factors of both elements. of course, we cannot forget that the quantity and characteristics of chinese goods, defined to a large extent by the profile of its labour supply, its internal market, limited in income level but incomparable in absolute quantities, and, more recently, its investment capacity make china a great power of supply and demand. but as our colleague mr martin has pointed out in a splendid article today, china is a key factor in the success or failure of many international negotiations, including the one recorded very recently at the g4 meeting. can we deal with relations with china simply by saying that the whole mountain is oregano, that is, open doors for what we send and for what we can receive? i don't think he is. we must do this in a regular way and, moreover, clearly demand reciprocity, the removal of barriers to access to european products, adequate protection of intellectual property rights and patents, full respect for the standards required in social terms - which i consider fundamental - equal respect for environmental criteria and safety also in goods produced in china. all this, of course, without forgetting human rights. we are not just talking about values in metaphysical terms here. we are talking about rights that apply to people, to citizens like us. these are simply unquestionable values and, moreover, cannot be put into a relative perspective. today, people have been executed again in china and this is the most serious human rights violation that can be imagined.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, i support the programme of the portuguese presidency because, mr president, there is only one thing worse than standing still: it is to back down. we are now engaged in an exercise in political realism. we are not happy with the mandate, but we think it is a sign of political realism. we, the european parliament, and many citizens - the majority - wanted the constitutional treaty, but we agreed to find that way out in a mandate that is very clear but which i believe is the mandate in history that has the greatest number of footnotes. we must not forget that. and we all know the problem-solving skills that legal experts can have. for example, 'there are some issues that call for attention', we are gathered here with the european flag. what are we going to do, señor presidente? are we going to take down the flag or is this meeting going to be considered an illegal meeting? this is an important point, which has a somewhat humiliating aspect. there is also another important problem and that is how we are going to explain this to the citizens. we shall have 1,500 pages of treaties, like the telephone directory. that is to say, we must find a way of explaining what we are doing and we must do so by defending progress, legal personality, the extension of the qualified majority and of codecision, progress in foreign policy... we have to explain all this, but it will not be easy and, of course, as the devil is in the details, we must look very carefully at how the mandate is being implemented. i believe that the european parliament and also the national parliaments and civil society will be watching closely. mr president, that said, i hope that there will be a treaty of lisbon as a conclusion to the portuguese presidency. now, i want it to be a reform treaty and not a counter-reform treaty.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been two years since the rejection of the constitution in two of the member states cast a shadow over the union's activities. after a year of reflection, the german presidency was given a mandate in june 2006 to find a way out of this impasse, and on behalf of my colleagues i would like to congratulate the german presidency on the remarkable way in which it has managed to secure a comprehensive agreement in the european council. i think we have every reason to be grateful in a very particular way to chancellor angela merkel for the personal effort she has devoted to voting for this agreement. as already mentioned, the agreement reached in the european council implies that a new reform treaty is drawn up, paving the way for an early intergovernmental conference with a view to the new treaty entering into force in time for the european parliament elections in 2009. i highly recommend it to all of you! obviously, many of you will find elements in this agreement that you will not find so satisfactory. none of us can pretend that this is exactly the mandate we would have formulated if we had been given complete freedom to do so. the german presidency was faced from the outset with the difficult task of reconciling widely differing views on the way forward. those who had already ratified the constitution wanted, and it is understandable that they did, to keep the existing text as unchanged as possible. others wanted a new text that would be as different as possible from the draft constitutional treaty. the text is therefore a compromise between these two positions. we have all had the opportunity to appreciate the result and i shall not dwell on the details. i am convinced that we are faced with a balanced text and that it would not have been possible to reach a better agreement than this. the agreement reached in the european council gives the portuguese presidency a global and exhaustive mandate which will enable the intergovernmental conference, which will be responsible for translating the mandate into a treaty, to complete its work as quickly as possible. the european parliament will be fully involved in the work of the intergovernmental conference and the european council agreed to a portuguese proposal that parliament should have three representatives at the conference. i am aware of the commitment of this house to ensuring that the union can act in the future with the greatest efficiency and democratic legitimacy, and i very much welcome this increased representation. the european parliament was, of course, consulted throughout the process leading up to the intergovernmental conference. i know that the contribution of the members was particularly appreciated by the german presidency, which took it into full consideration when formulating the mandate. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has asked parliament to give its opinion on the convening of an intergovernmental conference, and that is the subject of the debate in this house today. i would encourage you to submit your opinion as soon as possible so that the work of the igc can start before the summer holidays. that is our firm determination. i hope you will agree with me that this objective is in the interest of all of us. i am sure you will have some detailed remarks to make and would like them to be taken into account at the intergovernmental conference, but i hope that you can collectively give your full support to the mandate that has been bequeathed to this presidency. it is the only way to ensure that the work of the intergovernmental conference is crowned with success and the only way for the union to finally break out of the impasse in which it finds itself.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, only a few months ago, not many observers were fully convinced that the european council could successfully relaunch the treaty review process. opinion across europe was fragile and there were wide divergences of views but, thanks to the admirable determination of chancellor merkel and the german presidency and through a real collective effort by member states and our institutions, the european council last month reached agreement on a clear and stringent mandate for a new igc, and it is important that we today recognise this success. yesterday, the commission adopted its opinion on the igc and, today, you are discussing parliament’s opinion. this process will allow the portuguese presidency to launch the intergovernmental conference later this month, but it is not only on timing that our institutions walk side by side. we also do so more importantly on the substance. the commission shares the globally positive assessment of the igc mandate which mr leinen’s report provides. the mandate contains many positive elements which are to be welcomed. like any compromise text, it is also a carefully crafted balance between different interests, between ambition and political realism, and this means that some of the changes agreed in the 2004 igc were not retained. it is also the reason why a number of derogations were granted to individual member states. i shall set out four reasons why the commission believes that this mandate will allow us in the igc to provide the european union with the sound institutional and political basis which we need to meet the expectations of our citizens and the challenges of our societies. firstly, the mandate will lay the ground for modern and more accountable institutions for the enlarged union. we warmly welcome the provisions which will refresh and reinforce the european union’s democratic legitimacy, a stronger and wider role for the european parliament, transparency of council deliberations, more codecision, more decisions taken by qualified majority, a clearer division of competences. national parliaments will have greater opportunity to be involved in the work of the european union, while the role of the european institutions will be fully respected. we are also very pleased to see that the innovations of the constitutions on democratic participation, including the citizens’ initiative, have been safeguarded. secondly, the union will have a charter of fundamental rights to protect the citizens, not just a declaratory text but one which will have legal force. citizens will be able to claim before the courts the rights enshrined in the charter. the charter will be binding for the european institutions and for member states when they implement eu law, even if this does not apply to all of them. thirdly, the union will be able to speak with one single voice on the global scene and be better able to protect the european interest. if we really want to tackle globalisation and address common concerns on sustainable development, climate change, competitiveness and human rights in the world, the union should use to the fullest its great potential to act collectively. my fourth remark concerns the policy areas, because the mandate develops the union’s capacity to deliver swifter and more consistent decisions in the area of freedom, security and justice. furthermore, it reinforces the legal basis to deal with the challenges of energy policy and climate change. how can we assess these changes? in our view, the overall balance is positive: the disappearance of some elements, including some of a symbolic nature, as well as the changes that reduced the readability of the text, were necessary parts of a package agreement which could be subscribed to by all member states. without an effort to compromise from all those involved, success would not have been possible. the european train is back on track, but we are not yet at the end of the journey and the citizens must be on board. the mandate is not yet the final product. to steer this new consensus to a successful igc will require intensive efforts from the portuguese presidency, the member states and our institutions. we particularly welcome the decision of the european council to strengthen the involvement of the european parliament in the igc. however, our collective negotiating efforts on their own will not be enough. we all – the commission, the member states and parliament – should draw some lessons from the previous ratification process and from the listening phase of plan d. i am glad to see that the european council has recognised the importance of communicating with citizens, providing full and comprehensive information on the eu and involving them in a permanent dialogue. this should be even more important in view of the changes that have reduced the readability of the treaty text. in the coming months, the commission will present some ideas on how a debate around the reformed treaty could be organised during the ratification period. we want to work closely with you in the european parliament, all the member states and other institutions. together, we should use this window of opportunity; together, we should engage in this new process without any delay and with all our energy. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, for the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats it was good that the european council reached an agreement and that is why, this morning, in the resolution we are going to vote on in a few minutes, my group will vote in favour of the intergovernmental conference being able to meet in accordance with article 48 of the treaty. but the important thing now is that this agreement, the agreement that results from the intergovernmental conference, is a good one. let me be clear: we say to the conference 'go ahead' but we will judge the intergovernmental conference by its results. and i would also like to say that for my group, which will be represented by mr brok at this intergovernmental conference, it will be an important political matter to become the guardian of the constitution. we want the substance, the substance, the agreement of the european council to be present in the final agreement of the treaty resulting from the intergovernmental conference. one issue raised by mr socrates is that of referendums. look - now that no one hears us - let me tell you something: do not trust the parties that are in opposition and ask for a referendum. and do not trust those who are calling for a referendum to vote no, because they want to destroy europe. some want to destroy the government in power, others europe. and so it seems to me that mr socrates' words this morning are decisive. no country can create a mess for other countries and at this moment we must all aim in the same direction to get europe out of the impasse. that first agreement of the european council is the first step and now i think we all have to get to work, on the one hand, on getting a good agreement and, on the other hand, on getting to work once we have gotten out of that mortgage of constitutional impasse. because what really worries me, mr president, is the climate of suspicion and mistrust in europe that i saw at the last european council. and that's something that we should all be concerned about and something that we all have to fight against together. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, the commission would like to make the following declaration before the vote. ‘the commission hopes that it will be possible today to find an acceptable compromise in all the institutions on account of the importance of adopting a civil justice financial programme as soon as possible. we are already late. if an acceptable solution is not found today, it is clear that the civil justice programme will not be adopted in time to be executed in 2007, with very negative consequences. without this financial programme, the commission will not be able to support associations or other actors from civil society, or the studies and projects that are fundamental to the development of the civil justice policies. the commission could support the compromise set out in amendment 2, which adds a recital to the council’s common position specifying the right of parliament to be informed in accordance with article 7(3) of decision 1999/468/ec and, more particularly, to receive the draft annual programme relating to the civil justice financial programme when it is submitted to the management committee. parliament should also receive the results of voting and a summary record of the meeting of the management committee. the commission, moreover, confirms its commitment to transmit directly to the chair of the competent parliamentary committee – the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs – the draft annual programme, and to inform parliament without delay about any modification being made to it. finally, the commission confirms, as firmly stated in the letters addressed by vice-president frattini to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, its availability to attend the competent parliamentary committee upon its request, in order to provide its members with all necessary information on the draft annual programme’.
that is exactly what we are going to do!
we take note of these details in the interest of the purity of the french language.
mr protasiewicz, please clear mr cocilovo's doubts.
of course, there is a closed defence of the french language in the house today. it's very good. - before the vote on amendment no 21
thank you very much for this moral injection you give me, mr. sifunakis.
in view of your request, we shall now suspend the voting.
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote.
madam president, commissioner, president of the european central bank, president of the eurogroup, i would first of all like to congratulate mr rosati and, in a very special way, mr mitchell on the quality of their reports. i understand that we are living in europe in an economically promising time. we finally have an increase in production and economic activity. that is translating into new job opportunities and all this with moderate inflation. the great question now is to confirm this economic growth, on the achievement of which our institutional problems will also depend. the doubt, which is present in the reports, is whether we are facing a short-term recovery or whether we are facing a more fundamental economic movement. in this sense, we must not be satisfied with europe having a growth potential of 2%. we must continue to synchronise our growth rates between countries and we must ultimately achieve more job creation and more small and mediumsized enterprises. in this area, the european central bank must also follow the recommendations of mr mitchell's report: prudence in raising interest rates, because it must not anticipate what government decisions, reform decisions and much more decisive decisions to combat protectionism should be. the great problem we really have in this europe is this protectionist discourse which goes against the spirit of european integration. in short, we are in a positive economic moment and we must all help to translate it, that is, to ensure that growth continues and, in the end, to help european citizens to identify the euro as one of their sources of well-being, prosperity and, above all, new employment opportunities.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to tell you that the council sincerely wishes to discuss with this parliament, with the european parliament, the dramatic events in gaza last month, as requested at the plenary session of 19 june. the council and the commission reacted swiftly, as was made clear in the council conclusions of 18 june, that is, we will not abandon the people in gaza. every effort is being made to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches gaza. we are talking about efforts to finance and to ensure, at political level, that israel facilitates the entry of humanitarian convoys into this territory. we also keep our border assistance mission in rafah on standby. if all parties agree to reopen the mission and conditions on the ground allow, the european union will continue to support the re-establishment of the regular operation of this crossing point between gaza and egypt. we support the emergency government of prime minister salam fayad. relations between the palestinian authority government and the eu were immediately normalized. israel also has specific obligations. it should do the same and eventually make available all palestinian tax and customs revenues and facilitate access and movement in the west bank and gaza to enable palestinian economic activity. israel must above all contribute to the credible peace process which palestinian leaders such as president abbas and prime minister fayad are committed to developing. that would be an invaluable help. the appointment of mr tony blair as the new representative of the quartet leaves no doubt that the international community remains actively engaged on this issue. we welcome the fact that the former british prime minister has made himself available for this post and we very sincerely hope that his action will help to strengthen the role and positions of the european union in the peace process.
member of the commission. mr president, since the last debate in this house, the situation in the occupied palestinian territory has profoundly changed. there are several developments that we should welcome. israel has finally resumed the transfer of tax and customs revenue, the european union has decided to normalise its relations with the palestinian authority and there is now a new palestinian government headed by prime minister salam fayyad. after a three-month interruption, the bilateral meetings between abbas and olmert have resumed. finally, like many others, i was delighted to hear that the bbc correspondent alan johnston had been released after more than three months in captivity. on the other hand, after the gaza takeover by hamas, there is now a high risk of separation between parts of the palestinian territory. the people of gaza are being isolated from the world, and the tensions between the palestinian factions have never been so high. the creation of a viable palestinian state is, at least, at risk. we must continue to work on the development of a political perspective in order to provide peace and prosperity for the region. i hope that the upcoming bilateral meeting between president abbas and prime minister olmert, which, it is to be hoped, will take place on 16 july, will help to frame a credible political perspective for the palestinian people and that it will pave the way for their joint meeting with the quartet later on. i hope that the quartet can continue its cooperation with the arab partners, and i look forward to the upcoming meeting of the quartet, which will most probably take place next week, when all these issues can be discussed. i welcome the appointment of tony blair as quartet envoy, which will certainly further dynamise our role in the middle east peace process. he can become a new vector of progress along with the arab peace initiative. i will, of course, provide him with every possible assistance, as we did for jim wolfensohn, including the staff for his team in jerusalem. with regard to assistance, the commission has been quick in reacting to the new situation. i received a letter from prime minister fayyad, which describes his priority needs. we are ready and are, of course, already mobilising our assistance to provide support to the new government. the quartet and the general affairs and foreign affairs councils have endorsed the extension of the temporary international mechanism (tim) until the end of september. in order to fund tim operations in the third quarter, we have sent a request to the budgetary authority for a transfer of eur 80 million. i am delighted, and i thank you that the committee on budgets has this week agreed to this transfer. we are now able to provide support, through the tim, until the end of its extension. direct financial assistance to the palestinian authority is already being prepared in the form of a scheme to reimburse private sector arrears, as salam fayyad has asked us to do. this would have a doubly beneficial effect on the financial situation of the palestinian authority and of the palestinian private sector. we are identifying some funds for this. the commission has resumed its long-standing efforts to build the institutions of the future palestinian state. we are also providing technical assistance to the ministry of finance. a project to assist the ministry of finance in the area of internal control and audit has just been launched, and we will launch two more shortly. one is the management of customs, and the other the management of tax revenue. finally, a few words on gaza. we will not, of course, abandon the people of gaza or the goal of a viable palestinian state. we are providing humanitarian and emergency assistance to the people of gaza, and echo partners are working on the ground. the tim is delivering social allowances and fuel. however, the situation may deteriorate further because access to the gaza strip is still a problem. therefore, we have to work even more with the egyptians and the israelis in order to open the rafah and karni border crossings. their continued closure impedes the effective passage of humanitarian personnel and goods and it is to be hoped that this will not have devastating consequences for the economy of the strip. finally, border crossings have to be open both for humanitarian access and commerce. if the economy collapses, there will be serious implications for the security of the whole region, for the future of the palestinian state and, indeed, for the commission budget. we should not let the population of gaza become 100% dependent on external aid.
the european parliament will adopt a new resolution by consensus tomorrow, on the basis of the usual procedures, on the situation in the middle east. but beyond that, mr president, i think there are two facts on which i should like to dwell in my speech. one, the appointment of former british prime minister tony blair as the quartet's special envoy. it seems, and this is a question i would like to put to the presidency of the council, that this mandate is to ensure that the funds of the international community are properly used in the region. the second element i would like to mention, mr president, is the letter signed by 10 foreign ministers, including the portuguese minister who holds the union's presidency, and which has been quite clearly criticised by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy. in that letter it is said that the european union has suffered from a lack of conviction in its middle east policy, that the roadmap - making a very strong statement - is finished, and that it is finished on the basis of shared responsibility, and that the conditions imposed by the european union, and the international community in general, have aggravated the situation. i would like to ask the presidency of the council whether it shares these statements - i understand that it does - whether it is made in its individual capacity as a portuguese minister or whether it is made on behalf of the european union. and finally, mr president, i would also like to ask about the proposals made in that letter: the holding of an upcoming international conference on the situation in the middle east and the mobilization of an international force, such as nato or under chapter vii of the united nations charter, to guarantee peace and maintain a possible ceasefire.
on behalf of the alde group. i was not able to hear the commissioner because i was in other parliamentary activities, but from what i am hearing i clearly share the idea that there is not much time left here and that at the same time we do not have that feeling of pressure that if we do not take a decision today we will have a violent conflict at the gates of europe, which is the message that some have tried to give us. in this respect, the statements of the prime minister of kosovo are very positive and should be viewed positively. firstly, i think that an effort must be made to put ourselves in serbia's shoes and send a message of respect to serbia. respect for its past, its present and its future. it is obvious that serbia must be required to cooperate very closely with the court, but it is also obvious that some messages received from serbia run the risk of not being received as a sign of sufficient respect by the european union. secondly, there is something that i continue to miss from the european union and from all the actors dealing with the legal and political future of kosovo: the economic reality of kosovo. it seems, from some speeches, that the declaration of independence alone, practically the only un resolution declaring the legal future of kosovo, will create wealth in pristina, will provide employment for the thousands of people who are there with a unemployment rate that far exceeds 50% of the population and will create economic stability that will bring investment. that's not true. we need an economic plan for kosovo. a kosovo that is economically unviable, ruined and with 70% unemployment will remain a tragedy for all of us. now is the time to think about it, now that we can still influence, i do not say in a conditional way for that independence, but with a capacity to affect the economic structures of kosovo, which we will not have the day when kosovo is independent. that is the responsibility of the european union and i do not think it is exercising it.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 december 2006 the council asked the european parliament to give its assent to the commission proposal for a council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the european community, of the protocol amending the trips agreement concluded in geneva on 6 december 2005. the council requested such assent under the relevant provisions, namely articles 133 and 300 of the treaty establishing the european community. at the political level, the community was one of the strongest advocates in the drafting and negotiation of the said protocol, which will increase access to affordable medicines for all citizens in developing countries, one of the major successes achieved in the run-up to the wto ministerial conference in hong kong in december 2005. the handling of this important issue for developing countries by the body responsible for international trade rules is a practical application of the principles of policy coherence for development laid down by the european council, agreed in 2005 between parliament, the council and the commission, and is also an important concrete step towards achieving the millennium development goal of fighting hiv/aids, malaria and other diseases - objective 6. several wto members, including the united states, have already ratified the protocol and it is desirable that, once its internal procedures at the level of the commission, council and parliament have been completed, the european community, as the main proponent of the measure, ratifies the protocol as soon as possible, by 1 december 2007. as regards both the technical issues and the broader policy issues raised by the honourable members, the assessment of the technical effectiveness of the mechanism, established by the wto decision of 30 august 2003, is not a matter for the council. the council recognises the complexity of the issue but also stresses the fundamental political importance of ratification of the protocol for developing countries. the council does not intend to alter the mandate given to the commission for the purpose of economic partnership agreements, as they are in the final stages of negotiation. the member states, meeting with the commission in the edf committee, will endeavour to ensure that adequate resources are channelled towards the achievement of millennium development goal 6, in particular for the acp states. the council takes this opportunity to urge the european parliament to play its essential institutional role so that the european community can accept this important protocol and the rules of trade can be changed to better serve the interests of millions of human beings in developing countries.
member of the commission. madam president, the commission shares parliament’s view that access to medicines for poor developing countries is a matter of huge political and humanitarian importance, and the commission has taken a number of initiatives to facilitate access to medicines for poor developing countries through existing programmes. from the outset, the european community has been at the forefront of the debate on trips and access to medicines. in the wto, we played an active role in bringing together almost irreconcilable positions. developing countries were grateful to the european union for our role as an honest broker. the debate in the wto first led to the adoption of the declaration in doha in november 2001. this declaration reaffirms the right of wto members to use, to the full, the flexibilities contained in the trips agreement, including the use of compulsory licensing. for those countries with no manufacturing capacity in the pharmaceutical sector and that could not make effective use of compulsory licensing under the trips agreement, a temporary waiver from the normal rules of patent law was adopted in august 2003. parliament, together with the council, implemented this waiver decision by adopting it at first reading – regulation (ec) no 816/2006 – to allow manufacturers of generic drugs to produce patent medicines for export to countries in need without sufficient capacity to produce them. the protocol amending the trips agreement aims at transforming this decision into a permanent and legally secure solution. this flexibility, to be introduced into the trips agreement, can help save lives without undermining the patent system, which is one of the main incentives for the research and development of new medicines. we are now at the very end of this wto process. the last step is the acceptance of the trips amendment. i come now to the specific questions raised in the oral question, and i have discussed these responses with my colleague, mr mandelson, who is in charge of trade policy in the commission. i should like to make four specific, concise points. first, the mechanism created by the wto decision of august 2003 and the protocol to the trips agreement is the result of long and difficult negotiations between almost 150 countries. it represents a balance which was difficult to strike. this mechanism must be seen only as a part of the wider issue of access to affordable medicines for developing countries, which goes far beyond the issue of patent law. second, the commission can confirm that the european community is committed not to include, in the economic partnership agreements and in other future bilateral and regional agreements with poor developing countries, any trips+ provisions which could affect access to medicines or undermine the trips flexibility contained in the doha declaration on trips and public health. third, the commission encourages pharmaceutical companies to adopt schemes, such as tiered pricing, under which medicines are sold in poor and developing countries at considerably lower prices than in developed countries. fourth, the commission supports local production capacity. local production can promote competition and make pharmaceutical products more affordable. it is also important to encourage technology transfer to ensure that locally produced pharmaceutical products can meet internationally agreed standards. to conclude, i hope that parliament has been reassured that access to medicines remains a priority for the commission. now that the european parliament has all the elements in its hands to make a well-informed decision, and given the role played by the european community in forging this permanent solution, it would be regrettable if the european community could not accept it in time. it is essential that parliament and the commission continue to cooperate closely to facilitate access to medicines for poor developing countries.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as i have already said, at the political level the community was one of the strongest advocates of this protocol in the preparation and negotiation of this protocol, which we believe will increase access to affordable medicines for all citizens in developing countries. commissioner olli rehn has also made it clear here that this result has been obtained after long and difficult negotiations and we believe that the result achieved, in the face of the circumstances, is a balanced result. i therefore have no choice but to appeal again to this parliament to accept this important protocol and so that the rules of trade can be changed to better serve the interests of millions of human beings in developing countries.
member of the commission. madam president, thank you for this very responsible debate on a very important issue. i would like to give a response to an issue which was raised by david martin and some other speakers concerning what the commission is doing in order to support technology transfers leading to the local production of affordable key pharmaceuticals. the issue also concerned what we are doing in the field of prevention, treatment and care as regards hiv, malaria and tuberculosis. this is one of the objectives of a specific initiative dedicated to aid for poverty-related diseases in the developing countries which provided a combined total of eur 81.2 million over the past two years. the european union is also a major funder of pharmaceutical and health-oriented clinical research including health systems research and capacity building in various sub-saharan african countries through the european developing countries clinical trials partnership. moreover, during the period of implementation of the sixth framework programme for research, eu support for r&d devoted to poverty related diseases amounted to more than eur 455 million. for the same period an additional eur 78 million was spent by international scientific cooperation on various projects covering the fields of neglected infectious diseases, health systems policy research and reproductive health. as you can see, the commission is doing a lot to help developing countries, in particular the least developed countries, to enhance their access to affordable medicines, including local production capacity. is that enough? probably not. is the commission ready to do more? yes, provided we have the resources needed. and this is an area where parliament has a key role to play. there was another important issue raised concerning the fact that the mechanism has not yet been used, which implied that it does not work. it is important to understand how compulsory licensing works. the mechanism can operate without any compulsory licence actually being granted. the usefulness of compulsory licenses comes mainly in the leverage they give to developing countries in price negotiations with pharmaceutical companies. in other words, compulsory licenses can deliver the expected results, i.e. make medicines more affordable without being actually granted. finally, i hope that parliament has been reassured that access to medicines remains a very strong priority for the commission and for the european union. we hope that parliament will give its assent to the protocol as soon as possible. the outside world would not understand a delay or refusal from the european union. this would undermine the eu’s credibility as a whole in this field and as an international partner in general.
acting president of the council. as the honourable member knows, the council is not in a position to check whether or not the member states are complying with the various international obligations which they have under international conventions. the current situation of the southern sea borders of the european union was discussed at the council meeting of 12 june 2007. the council intends to carry out an in-depth analysis of certain proposals submitted by malta with regard to the recent incidents in the mediterranean sea, taking into account relevant international instruments such as the solas and sar conventions and taking due account of the commission's study on international legal instruments with regard to illegal immigration by sea. in addition, the need to equip frontex with the resources necessary to fulfil its mandate efficiently was noted, and the commission intends to increase its operational budget for 2007. member states were also urged to fulfil their commitment to ensure the availability of equipment in the central register of available technical equipment.
first of all, mr president-in-office of the council, i should like to thank you for answering the first question i put. i wish the portuguese presidency every success in this six-month period, because we all need it. secondly, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to express my absolute concern at the inadequacy of the agreements of 2 june. the richest community of states in the world - the european union - cannot afford to make the spectacle we have made by allowing one country to allow scores of shipwrecked people to perish at sea for lack of material means. i think the european union has enough resources and i think that at the moment the resources we have - especially in the framework of frontex - are absolutely insufficient. it is shameful and intolerable that the european union should put on such a show for lack of financial means.
acting president of the council. i would add that the portuguese presidency has received a mandate from the european council, a mandate agreed by all 27 member states, and that it is its responsibility as the presidency to translate that mandate into the new reform treaty, which we hope to do shortly, quickly, because the european union needs that new reform treaty.
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members, it is a great pleasure to be here. i would like to thank parliament and, in particular, the members of the development committee for the constructive dialogue that we have been able to conduct in the framework of the democratic scrutiny of our draft strategy papers. i have on several occasions, notably in my joint letter with my colleague, louis michel, to the chair of the development committee of 26 march, reiterated our commitment to carefully examining the committee’s observations on the strategy papers in the preparation of the annual action programmes and in the implementation of our projects and programmes. we are now in the preparation phase of these programmes. some of them have already been forwarded to you and the remaining ones will be sent to you by this autumn in conformity with article 8 of the comitology decision. attached to these annual action programmes, you will also receive synoptic tables explaining in detail how your observations have been taken into account or why it was not feasible to do so. additionally, this week in a separate letter to mr borrell, i illustrated the manner in which we have considered your remarks and how these have been transposed in the annual action programmes that have already been sent to you. i am therefore somewhat disappointed to hear of a motion for a resolution critical of the commission’s programming. i would hope that this will not call into question the spirit of open dialogue and cooperation that we are displaying and that we are ready to continue to pursue. please allow me now to address some of the issues raised by the parliament on several occasions, notably in your motion for a resolution. we are, of course, fully committed to the overarching objective of poverty alleviation and the achievement of the millennium development goals under the development cooperation instrument. i would like to point out very clearly that all activities planned under our country strategy papers are development activities and fall within the priority sectors identified in the dci. it must be stressed at this point that the regulation also states that we need to pursue differentiated approaches depending on the individual development contacts and needs of every country concerned. the development needs of, for instance, bangladesh are not the same as those of brazil. we agree with parliament’s view that health and education play a significant role in poverty eradication and the achievement of the millennium development goals. at this point, i would like to reiterate the commission’s commitment to respecting the agreed 20% benchmarking on social sectors by 2009 through project programmes or budget support linked to those sectors, taking an average across all the geographical areas. the first multiannual indicative programmes for 2007-2010 already show a clear contribution to the overall benchmark for basic health and education. the annual action programmes under approval for 2007 confirmed this. as soon as projects and programmes are in the implementation phase, we will provide parliament with detailed statistics. on official development assistance eligibility, i would like to reassure you that in the preparation of the annual action programmes we have ensured and will ensure full compliance with the dci’s provisions regarding the oecd/dac criteria for geographical programmes, whilst at the same time maintaining the flexibility provided for in the regulation for thematic programmes. of course, an official assessment of this compliance will be made during the mid-term review which will start in 2009. the commission intends to make proposals to modify the regulations if it considers it appropriate. as regards stakeholder consultations, we are well aware that further improvements still need to take place in the consultation process, including the participation of local and regional authorities. it is, however, also a principle of our development assistance that it should be partner-country-led and contribute to the national development plans. so we are trying our utmost to encourage the national authorities in each country to consult their national parliaments, regional and local authorities and civil society on their own development plans as an expression of good governance. our annual action programmes will explain more clearly what we have done with regard to consultations. the recent annual action programme on cambodia is a good example. as regards other donor activities, the commission has provided all available information when presenting its strategy papers, as well as progress towards achieving the millennium development goals. like you, we have every interest in obtaining an overall picture on the activities of all donors and we are making every effort to provide more information under a new standard mix. regarding the mainstreaming of cross-cutting issues such as the promotion of human rights, gender equality, democracy, good governance and environmental sustainability, of course we intend to do this. this has been a core objective for us since the very outset. rest assured that we will put this into effect in the implementation phase. lastly, as far as your point on budget support is concerned, i would like to stress that the commission applies strict eligibility criteria which are reassessed before each and every budget support disbursement. in the areas of policy and strategy, and of macroeconomic stability and public financial management, when selecting countries which should receive budget support, i have tried to deal with the main elements of your resolution. please rest assured that you will receive detailed information on your observations when we send you the annual action programmes in the framework of your droit de regard under comitology. the commission remains prepared to discuss the annual action programmes before the appropriate bodies of parliament.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, this was the last speech of the previous speaker and the first in the house for me. i hope you'll be magnanimous with me. i should like to begin by recalling that the process of adopting the regulation establishing the development cooperation instrument (dci) has been known to be tortuous, convoluted and, at times, fraught with many difficulties. in fact, the first reply announced by this parliament to reject the proposal itself was unanimously adopted by the committee on development, supported equally unanimously by the other three committees which delivered opinions on the subject. this whole approach brought the commission and the council to the negotiating table and ultimately convinced both institutions to respect parliament's powers of co-decision. we know all this already. in the end, of course, we also know that the proposal was approved, but several of the same grounds that created suspicion over a year ago still exist. so far this year, parliament has tabled three resolutions warning the commission that it was overstepping its bounds and asking it to rectify its position. which, by the way, he hasn't done. and there is no need to remind the commission what can happen if the comitology line is stretched too far with this house. in short, this parliament is still not seeing things clearly and i think the mere fact that this resolution was adopted unanimously in the committee on development is a very significant fact. for example, the icd regulation states that 'the community will promote a development process that the partner country has led and embraced', but we would like to know whether there have been contacts with the parliaments of these partner countries before the adoption of strategy papers and, if so, whether there are details of these meetings. the icd regulation also aims to promote inclusion and participation and a broad involvement of all sectors of society in the development process and in the national dialogue, but we have no information on whether this series of contacts has actually taken place or not. we also consider that there is little or no information on the percentage of icd funding for these strategy papers. we want to know whether these strategy papers have received other funding and, if so, how many of them will be funded by them. finally, are there programmes within the strategy papers which have not been profiled from the point of view of the millennium development goals, as advocated by the icd regulation? and if so, how much money have these programs received? we in our group still have these and many other doubts which will perhaps be cleared up by these communications to the committee on development which you have just announced you will be making, but let us not forget that the icd regulation mentions transparency as a key to programme development up to seven times. we believe that we must lead by example and that the commission should inform this parliament fully and clearly in order to put an end to the uneasiness that has arisen in the management of this instrument in the first six months.
madam president, madam commissioner, you know very well that the analysis of the application of the icd is today a very important part of the work of the committee which i have the honour to chair. we attach great importance to this process and we expect, in return, that the commission will take full account of the observations made by parliament. parliament in particular must be vigilant to ensure that the fundamental objective of the icd, namely the eradication of poverty, is achieved and that the funds earmarked for this instrument are mainly devoted to this activity, and in particular that the 20% devoted to education and health is reached. and we are still not quite clear how we can achieve that 20% target by 2009. commissioner, it is very important that all the actors involved are consulted and that horizontal policies such as the promotion of human rights, gender equality, good governance, the rights of children and especially also of indigenous peoples, environmental sustainability and the fight against diseases such as aids are also adequately taken into account in all programmes and for all countries. that is what we are trying to achieve by our work of democratic analysis of the proposals you make to us and we hope that our contribution and the work we are investing in it with the best of intentions and the best desire for cooperation will be reflected in the annual action plans.
madam president, unfortunately we are again dealing with natural disasters, this time with the fires that have occurred in some of the member states. i would like to remind you that in the last three years in my country we have had a catastrophic fire in my region, which is andalusia, specifically in the province of huelva. the following summer we had another catastrophic fire in the province of guadalajara, with eleven fatalities, and last year, another fire, also of enormous characteristics, in galicia. i would like to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that the european parliament has reacted. it sent delegations, not only to my country but to all the member states concerned, which had a great social impact and we raised hopes that the european union would be able to react in an effective way, expressing its solidarity. in the committee i have the honour of chairing, and together with the european commission, we have been working hard to reform the solidarity fund so that we can adapt it to the present circumstances, because at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost impossible to mobilise the solidarity fund in the event of fires. the european council asked the former commissioner for regional policy, now a french government minister, mr barnier, to draw up a report on the creation of a european civil protection force, a report which was very well received and presented at a public hearing convened for this purpose in this parliament. the reality is that the german presidency has refused to take part in this debate and let us hope that the portuguese presidency will now be able to persuade its colleagues in the council to take account of the proposal on the table, which was made by the european commission and amended by parliament. i believe, madam president, that we must put forward a joint, determined action by the european commission and the european parliament, because that is what the citizens of europe are demanding and, moreover, it is our responsibility and our duty. i can assure you that my group will make sure that this is made perfectly clear in the resolution we adopt in september.
madam president, madam commissioner, there has been heavy rainfall in britain and there will continue to be heavy rainfall, particularly in northern europe. we are seeing it in the south, in southern europe: there have been and will continue to be forest fires and droughts and accelerated desertification with heat waves. in view of the very serious problems we have in the european union, i would like to see, among other things, a strengthening of reforestation policies, a matter which could well be addressed at the next conference of the parties to the united nations convention to combat desertification, to be held in madrid next september. it would be desirable in the foreseeable future of increased natural disasters to have greater coordination between civil protection services and efficient crossborder cooperation. you have mentioned it, but we would like it to be a little more. finally, i think it is essential that the commission should use the solidarity fund as a matter of urgency when this type of natural disaster occurs, because its economic, social and environmental repercussions are terrible and solidarity is needed at that time.
member of the commission. madam president, i would first like to say that we have an ambitious programme, but do we have the financial means? well, i think so. the financial envelope for the 2008-2012 programme in fact represents an increase of 15% compared to the previous period. i think that is a higher increase than the average increase for the financial perspective 2007-2013. so i think that is settled. with regard to coordination, let me say that this parliament is currently analysing a proposal by the commission to set up a high-level advisory board which will then improve the governance of the european statistics system and the coordination of the production of statistics. i think this will be important. i also would like to say to mr karas that what you mentioned is absolutely right. we have a possibility as the commission to examine the methodology that is used by the member states. but, unfortunately, we do not have the possibility to go further and examine the data as such. and, unfortunately, i think the commission has already tried, but the member states until now at least have not wanted to go any further. so maybe this is also something that should be brought to their attention again.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr michał tomasz kamiński, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the negotiating mandate for a new enhanced agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part (2007/2015 (ini)) (a6-0217/2007).
mr president, this resolution is being tabled under rule 91 urgently, without debate. there is certainly urgency and, on behalf of myself and the five members who have spent five days in darfur, i would like to state very briefly the reasons for this urgency. darfur is now a lawless territory, where a war of all against all is waged. it is the condensed form of the great problems of our time: the conflict between centres and peripheries, ethnic conflicts, the cynical exploitation, for political ends, of rivalries between groups, and perhaps the first war caused by climate change in the world. but the urgency is that insecurity is increasing and that, if this continues, humanitarian workers will not be able to continue their work. and on their work depends the fate of two and a half million people, who are fed every day thanks to their efforts and, in part, to the money of the european union. if by the end of the year security is not improved, we could find two million people stranded in the desert, with the danger of creating the greatest humanitarian crisis the world has ever known. and that is why it is important, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that the united nations forces, which we have so often called for to go to darfur, go, knowing that now the sudanese government is no longer opposed. the sudanese government no longer says no, now it says yes. he says to go as soon as possible, because he is already unable to guarantee - if he ever wanted - a minimum of security. the yanyauid have not been disarmed, on the contrary. the sudanese government is not going to increase security in darfur. if we want to avoid the risk of a total humanitarian crisis, we must press for that force to get there as soon as possible. but since it will take at least a year to arrive, we must support the african union and we must at least get its soldiers paid, because you know that we have spent more money on supporting that force than on humanitarian aid. that is the reason for the urgency, mr president. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, this report keeps appearing on the monitors as krahmer, when it is really the barsi-pataky report. that can create confusion. he's been teasing me.
mr president, on 12 august a collision occurred in the strait of gibraltar between the freighter new flame and the oil tanker torm gertrud. it is the ninth accident to occur in one of the world's busiest shipping lanes. more than 100,000 ships pass through it every year. this accident highlights the urgent need to create a port surveillance and control authority between the kingdom of spain, the united kingdom and gibraltar. the absence of such maritime controls endangers lives and, of course, endangers the nature of the area. we do not yet know - and i think the european commission should demand to know - what the sunken freighter was carrying: 27 000 tonnes of scrap, possibly dangerous, polluting scrap. i think it is very important that parliament and the european commission should urge the administrations of spain, the united kingdom and gibraltar to set up this maritime monitoring and surveillance body.
mr president, in recent years we have been turning the september plenary in strasbourg into a sad tradition: talking about natural disasters. we are certainly at an exceptional time in terms of damage and deaths, particularly following the terrible fires in greece, but also in other parts of europe. first of all, we must show solidarity with the greek authorities, with the entire greek people, but in particular with the families of the deceased, who do not always receive the support they deserve. but citizens have a right to demand more from the european institutions. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. and we must ask the council precisely what else has to happen to convince them of the need to get to work on reforming an obsolete fund. i have to remind you that the european commission's proposal and the european parliament's amendments have been on the table for over a year now, and that is why my group asks the portuguese presidency to give serious consideration to convening an extraordinary council for this purpose. moreover, but also in connection with the council's inaction, my group calls on the european commission to present concrete proposals at community level on civil protection, in line with the barnier report. mr president, my group has been actively involved in the negotiations for a joint resolution which we support wholeheartedly. i am convinced that no one will now try to use this debate to interfere in the greek election campaign, because i am sure we can all agree that there is nothing more indecent than trying to make electoral profit out of human misery.
mr president, i would like to express my solidarity with the greek people in the disaster they have suffered this summer and, above all, my condolences to the families of the missing people. natural disasters, as has been said repeatedly, are not unique to greece. during this summer in spain we have suffered major fires in valencia and the canary islands, in particular. fortunately, the state apparatus has worked well, the fires have been extinguished in time and, at this moment, the state institutions are proceeding with the compensations for the people affected. i agree with my colleague galeote - and i welcome this belated conversion - that such debates cannot be used to attack a particular government. the speeches by the socialist members here have been correct at all times, aimed at showing solidarity with greece and not at using it for political purposes. i hope that the people's party can maintain this same line in the future. in any case, i think that dagmar roth-behrendt has put things in their proper terms: the fundamental competence remains in the hands of the national states, but action at the level of the european union is possible through the solidarity fund. the commissioner, mrs roth-behrendt and others have all stressed the delay in the development of the european solidarity fund. i hope that portugal, which is a country particularly sensitive to this type of disaster, can use its presidency to give a boost to the development of the solidarity fund, so that we can work together in the future to work together in the event of such disasters again.
the rapporteur. - mr president, my report is a contradiction because i use an expression which is contradictory: 'indicative right'. the law is not indicative, the law is coercive. the fact is that the european union's jargon has been using this expression: 'instrument of indicative law'. and what does that mean? this means, in particular, documents from the commission: some of an interpretative nature, others of an implementing nature, others merely preparatory documents. the problem is that, in view of the confusion and ignorance about the nature of community law in many jurisdictions - including the court of justice itself - these indicative legal documents are given binding legal status. this is a breach of the fundamental principles of the law of the member states of the european union and of the european union as a whole. the only legitimacy at present for legally binding rules is the will of the people, both at national and union level. and the will of the people is usually expressed through representative bodies, which can be either, in this case, the european parliament, directly elected by the people, or the council, made up of governments which are dependent on and elected by the people of their respective countries. it is clear that the commission has an important role to play in the implementation of european law, it is the guarantor of the application of the treaties, but it must do so together with the legislative bodies and, in any case, it cannot replace the legislative power conferred by the treaties on parliament and the council. the concern we have in the committee on legal affairs is that, on the one hand, we do not want to impede the commission's initiative, we do not want to impede the commission's implementing functions, we do not want to limit the possibilities for development, but we do believe that it is important to draw a conceptual distinction between the two types of instruments and that, when the commission considers that it has to resort to this type of act, it should at least establish collaboration with parliament and, of course, in any case with the council, so that the preparation of these acts does not give rise to misinterpretations or interference. of course, what is not right in any way is what has been called the 'open method of coordination'. the open method of coordination can be an effective instrument for achieving the aims of the treaty, but it can only establish obligations between those parties which participate. these would be contracts between parties, for example between social partners. just as an agreement between, for example, trade unions and employers may have binding value for the parties involved, the open method of coordination is used to draw up such contracts, but subject to community rules and, in no case, can replace them. and the european union, as a community of law, needs the adoption of legal texts. it is not enough to say 'let's use the open method of coordination', because it is an effective instrument for achieving the objectives of the european union. it is not an effective instrument, because the european union can only function as a legal order. the european union has no army, no police force, it has operated on the basis of the assumption by the member states of a series of obligations which are fulfilled by the institutions of the member states and whose fulfilment is monitored by the commission and the court of justice. but the open method of coordination is not a legal method, it is not a legal instrument to give general rules and one cannot confuse one thing with another. the committee on legal affairs - as mr gargani said earlier - is concerned about this anti-legal drift within the european union. the european parliament wants to cooperate with the commission in achieving its objectives, in its implementing tasks, in its tasks of preparing legislative texts, but it cannot and must not condone the use of techniques which are not in keeping with the development of the rule of law, the development of the construction of the european union as a community of law, a community which must have a clear regulatory hierarchy: treaties - which i still call constitutional, despite everything - which lay down the fundamental rules, european union legislation which meets all those areas in which the european union must intervene, while respecting, of course, the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, but maintaining the union's competences and setting out action at the legislative level, leaving then for implementation instruments such as this method of coordination or any other instrument which the commission may consider adopting to lead to the achievement of the union's objectives. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur, mr toubon, on the content of this report and also on the fact that he was able to gather a broad base of support for its adoption by this house. it is obvious to reiterate here that much progress has been made in building a single market in the european union, but it must also be reiterated, however obvious, that there is still a long way to go. i believe that experience shows us that open economies are those which grow the most and that increased competition always benefits consumers, both in the quality and in the price of the goods and services that compete or appear on the market. in a globalised market such as the one in the world today, it is impossible to think that protectionist measures can be taken forward and, of course, the european union, as an economic actor in the world, can only have a strong economy if it continues to take steps towards liberalization and the construction and deepening of the single market. the increase in competition and the liberalization of the european market are often presented by some as a loss of the european social model or a loss of protection of social rights. i believe that the opposite is true, that is to say, if the european social model is to continue to advance, if european citizens are to continue to enjoy social protection measures and good social services, the european economy must grow and this can only be done - i insist - if we deepen the european single market. i said that a lot of progress had been made, but - and some of my colleagues were giving practical examples at the moment - there is still a long way to go. i believe that obstacles must be removed so that small and mediumsized enterprises can work throughout the european union. the report also states that further research is needed on the retail financial services market and, above all, on intellectual property rights. i would like to ask the commission to call on the national governments and the council to ensure that community provisions are properly transposed into national legislation.
mr president, i also share the view expressed by president gargani and mr lehne on the need to go ahead with european union legislation on the seat of companies and the statute of the european private company. mr mccreevy has told us that he is having difficulties, that there has been a delay and that consultations have been started on one of the two proposals and on the other it seems that at this stage there is no view formulated. we are faced with the famous problem of adopting community legislation and improving community legislation. mr lehne has made it clear that we are here in a field of cooperation between the institutions, not parliament on one side and the commission on the other. parliament hoped that the commission would be able to present initiatives soon, since the commission's right of initiative is part of the framework of cooperation with the other institutions. commissioner mccreevy has spoken of the difficulties with regard to the member states, but from the debate it is still not clear to us where the objections are, whether they come from the private sector itself or whether they come mainly from the states. which member states are opposed to this type of adoption of community rules? are we talking about a purely private confrontation? as mr mccreevy is going to have an additional speech, i hope he can clarify a little more where the difficulties are, whether they come from the private sector or they come mainly from the member states.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this afternoon we are discussing a sector which is key to european growth, competitiveness and employment: logistics. logistics is essential to the quality of life of our citizens, even if they do not perceive it clearly enough. this exercise seeks, among other things, to make it more visible to the public. this sector accounts for around 13% of the european union's gdp and has a major economic impact, accounting for between 10% and 15% of the final cost of finished products in europe. in some sectors, such as the important automobile sector, it is even now more important than social costs. it is also a sector which, until now, seemed to be a matter for industry and the market alone, and its success and growth potential seemed indisputable and should therefore remain so. but in keeping with our firm conviction that the best market is one which is well regulated, which facilitates and promotes positive capacities and, on the other hand, avoids possible risks before they become obstacles and impediments to the necessary growth, creativity and development of our citizens, we therefore welcome the commission's decision to address the treatment of this sector in so far as the european union can contribute to it, in order to multiply the potentials and limit the obvious risks, given the forecasts of growth in the transport sector in europe. there is now talk of a 50% growth between 2000 and 2020. it will therefore be able to exploit and increase its opportunities in a scenario which appears to us to be defined by five fundamental axes. the first is the recent enlargement to the east, which increases distances and creates peripherality but at the same time also creates new market opportunities and exchange in the diversity of the cultures of our citizens. the second axis would be globalisation, which accelerates exchanges, diversifies needs and relocates territories and populations. i am thinking that my country, for example spain, appears to be on the periphery in the case of enlargement, and yet globalisation has repositioned it at the crossroads of such important areas as latin america, africa or trade with asia. another key focus for this approach to logistics is climate change and current energy needs. we need to make more efficient use of infrastructure, better traffic management, limiting empty travel, and logistics, as it is being developed today, can make a great contribution to all this. the fourth axis would be the r & d & i opportunities we are looking for in europe, in the framework of the seventh framework programme and the whole future of the knowledge economy. logistics represents precisely that intelligent transport, that transport which includes planning at its base and which is increasingly based on intelligent transport systems. sesar, safeseanet and track and trade are all mechanisms and new technologies that are being successfully applied to this sector. finally, demographic changes and the expectations of young people in employment, to which logistics can also contribute in a definitive way. in this respect, the proposal for a report is precisely trying to follow the commission in identifying bottlenecks and in trying to put forward new proposals. the case for avoiding excessive administrative burdens, through the application of precisely these intelligent systems, of reduction and limitation, although it is still complex, especially, for example, in the case of customs and maritime cabotage, but i believe that the commission is in this case in its action plan presenting approaches which can be very positive. another bottleneck, for which we also propose a number of solutions, would be the lack of infrastructure and its poor financing. in this sense, we still demand the need to complete this network of transfrontier networks where some of the historic passes, in the case of the pyrenees or the alps, have yet to be opened, which we believe would also help, by reducing congestion on some of the roads through the opening of railway tunnels. in this connection there is also a specific proposal, which i particularly support, and that is the proposal for a dedicated railway freight track system. we encourage the commission to submit a draft to us in this respect. as regards the whole question of the need for financing, we would like the logistical factor to be taken into account in the debate on the future financing of a sufficiently ambitious european transport policy, and we would therefore like it to be a priority element as well. as regards the shortage of labour, we support the commission's approach to making this profession more attractive, but we would like to see more than just training, but also improvements in social and working conditions. finally, we also want to follow the commission and encourage it in this respect, pointing out to it the need for a specific chapter on urban logistics in the future treatment of urban transport. we believe that our citizens suffer daily from congestion where this logistics that appears invisible in the positive part appears instead in its most negative aspect. we believe that it is time for logistics to take its place in the european debate.
mr president, commissioner, i am one of those who believe that without ambitious objectives, progress and prosperity cannot be achieved, but i also believe that the community and the european union are too often given to grandiose and unrealistic agreements and objectives. this is what happened, in my view, in 2000 with the lisbon strategy, which by 2010 was to position us as the most competitive and dynamic global economy in the world; or in 1994 with the essen agreements on the transeuropean transport networks, most of which are still pending. in march of this year, the european council set the target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption, whereas in reality we are failing to meet the much more modest targets we committed ourselves to in kyoto. we are now discussing freight transport logistics in europe as a key element for sustainable mobility, something that is essential for our growth and development; and given the significant growth expected for freight transport until 2020, we cannot ignore logistics, as it is a necessary tool to increase accessibility, efficiency and safety - as well as sustainability - of freight transport. but at the same time, persistent shortcomings need to be addressed, such as the throttling of the transeuropean road network at biriatu pass in the basque country or elsewhere, or the lack of freight corridors on the rail network which do not need to be high speed to compete, or the very low interoperability of railways or the lack of efficient transhipments. we must strengthen intelligent transport systems, apply the potential of the internet to the management of freight transport, standardising weights, measures and loading standards, reducing bureaucratic red tape and creating one-stop shops. we must promote the co-modality of the different modes of transport, not forgetting the motorways of the sea and inland waterways, and above all integrate all real costs, including environmental costs, into the price of their use. and all this cannot be done by cutting the contributions of the member states to the community budget.
mr president, commissioner, efficient logistics for the transport of goods is essential for territorial cohesion. this is what mrs ayala, whom i congratulate on her serious and rigorous work, has said in her report. in this context, i would ask the commission to pay particular attention to the specific problems of island territories, for which maritime transport is of particular importance. simplifying procedures, addressing problems of island ports such as over-costing due to market constraints, or how to provide new infrastructure through trans-european networks and the structural and cohesion funds are measures that would help to improve the economic development and competitiveness of islands. i would like to conclude by asking the commission to take special account of the needs arising from insularity in the future action plan on transport logistics which it intends to present.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly know what the most worrying phenomena are. we also know that some member states are stepping up their cooperation on prevention and repression. there is also the problem of identifying these criminal acts, which i would put at european level. when, as you said, people are forced to work in horrible conditions, when they are kept in prison, we cannot simply punish those responsible by the rules governing illegal work, but we must define these criminal acts as the enslavement of other human beings. only then can we make a qualitative leap. let me give you an example: only if we define these crimes in the serious way that i think they deserve, then we can apply the european arrest warrant. it is only an example, but as you know the european arrest warrant applies to a category of crimes, only to serious crimes, and it shows that there is a will on the part of the member states, to which i appeal, to tighten up national criminal legislation in order to finally classify such acts as truly serious crimes, as is already the case in some member states, so that the instruments of european cooperation which we have put in place can finally work. this is one of the essential conditions.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, the european court of justice plays an important role in safeguarding the legality, implementation and application of third pillar instruments. under article 35 of the treaty, the court has jurisdiction, upon request of a member state’s court or tribunal, to give preliminary rulings on the validity or interpretation of framework decisions and decisions, on the interpretation of conventions established under title vi of the treaty, and on the validity and interpretation of the measures implementing them. however, this jurisdiction only exists for those member states which have declared that they accept the jurisdiction of the court. moreover, those member states, having accepted the jurisdiction, may limit it to the highest national courts or tribunals. at this moment, unfortunately, only 16 member states have accepted the jurisdiction of the european court to give preliminary rulings on third pillar instruments, and two of them have made a limitative statement. this is really insufficient in my view and does not allow for appropriate dialogue between the court and the national courts applying european law on a daily basis. in addition, the european court has jurisdiction to review the legality of framework decisions and decisions. both member states and the commission may bring an action before the european court to challenge the legality of these measures. in practice, the commission has made use of this possibility twice. i refer to the cases regarding the request for annulment of the framework decision concerning the application of criminal law with respect to the protection of the environment and ship source pollution. but, in my view, these provisions also need improvement. in particular, the present treaty does not provide for a mechanism similar to the infringement procedures for community legislation, in order to monitor the implementation of the instruments in member states’ legislation. i have expressed my view on the gaps with respect to the jurisdiction of the court in the area of freedom, security and justice in two communications i submitted to the commission in 2006 and july 2007 on the implementation of the hague programme. the commission therefore welcomes the mandate agreed by the member states for an intergovernmental conference to finalise details of a reformed treaty. under the reformed treaty, i would expect the court of justice to become fully responsible in all justice, freedom and security areas. this is important to tackle poor national implementation of previously agreed work.
madam president, the commissioner has responded in the terms i expected, because i know his attachment to the institutions of the rule of law. the problem is that the constitutional treaty is still in an imprecise phase, we do not know whether we will ever conclude it, and in the meantime we have to function in this community, on the one hand by dealing with terrorist crimes and on the other hand by guaranteeing legal certainty. the question i put to the commissioner is whether he thinks it appropriate, in view of the unwillingness of some states to make commitments before the court of justice, that we can go ahead with the adoption of anti-terrorist measures if, at the same time, these measures are not accompanied by a strengthening of jurisdiction. in other words, whenever such a measure is adopted, the member states should undertake to recognise the court of justice. otherwise we would be faced with the possibility of authoritarian or coercive measures being taken, without the possibility of an appeal to the court of justice.
member of the commission. madam member, in my first reply, which concerned the non-discrimination directives, i mentioned that a study is being prepared as part of the implementation and as part of the effectiveness assessment to examine whether and how european legislation in this area should be supplemented, and one of the issues that this study will certainly address is the question of a possible separate directive on disabled people. so this question is being debated and, as it is in line with european processes, we are taking appropriate steps to verify which method is most effective in achieving the objective. i have already stated in my previous speech that i will of course answer all questions in writing, because this slightly improvised form might cause some questions to be answered inadequately. so the thing is obvious. i shall reply in writing to all the questions raised in this debate.
the next item is the report by alessandro foglietta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a european union strategy to help member states reduce alcohol-related harm (2007/2005 (ini)) (a6-0303/2007).
mr president, commissioner, i first of all want to welcome this strategy for alcohol proposed by the commission, precisely because it is committed to solving the problem through prevention and education, spreading moderate and responsible consumption patterns. i would also like to congratulate mr foglietta on his sensible report, but i will say again that it is not the alcohol itself that can be criminalised, but the misuse of it. moderate consumption of fermented beverages, such as wine or beer, by healthy adults is not only harmless but even healthy and can be part of a balanced diet. moderate consumption can protect the body against cardiovascular and degenerative diseases, as numerous scientific reports have shown. consumers have a right to truthful and complete information on the health risks and benefits of alcohol consumption, but the appropriateness of health warnings on the labelling of wines and beers is questionable, as in countries where this has been introduced it has been shown to be ineffective. in particular, there is no scientific evidence demonstrating the effectiveness of health warnings on labelling in preventing over-consumption. and, furthermore, a specific labelling for pregnant women seems to be ineffective as well. the best way to achieve the objectives is through good awareness-raising and educational campaigns, particularly aimed at pregnant women and young people. i would also like to say that the newly created health and alcohol forum, which brings together all the interested parties and whose objective is to combat the misuse and abuse of alcohol, seems to me a very appropriate initiative and i hope that the conclusions of this forum can also contribute to solving this problem. and finally, i would like to point out that this phenomenon of alcoholism among young people coincides precisely with a decline in per capita wine consumption in the european union. i think that's something to consider, because the problem is much more complex than it seems.
member of the commission. mr president, i should also like to thank all the members for a very interesting debate. i would like to tell you a story from greek mythology. you can find this story depicted in mosaics in pathos in cyprus. it is the story of the first wine drinkers. a servant of the god dionysus stole wine to give it to humans for the first time. they drank it, got drunk for the first time in human history, thought they were poisoned and killed the servant who had given them the wine. in this day and age the solutions are much more complicated, and we must come up with a different approach. everyone has chosen a different approach. some say that we have gone too far, others that we have not gone far enough. some would have wanted us to legislate on everything, others that everything should be done by the member states. the fact is that the solution lies somewhere in the middle. we are to complement member states and support them in their policies, but that does not mean that there is no role for the european union, as was reflected in the report and what members have said. at the same time, not everything can be solved through legislation. we must, therefore, give the forum a chance to work and produce concrete results, which we will monitor. however, at the same time, as has already been said, legislation exists in the member states on many of these aspects. it is implementation that is lacking and causing the problem. therefore, putting pressure on the member states will help us to achieve positive results. no matter what each side expected, we should not underestimate the importance of the fact that, for the first time, we have acknowledged at european level that there is a problem regarding alcohol-related harm, that there should be a european strategy – which has been adopted today – and that we now have a european debate, a european initiative and european action. this is important. no member state can solve this problem in isolation and no member state is immune from this problem. there is now binge-drinking in spain, which used to be a north-western european problem. therefore, one sees that, given cultural interchanges and other reasons – a social analyst could explain why this is happening – we have the same problems moving across borders, and there are no geographical barriers to such problems. they exist everywhere in the european union. this is the first important step, though not the last one. if we do not see a result within a reasonable time then we can re-evaluate, reassess and re-examine this strategy and take a different approach or a different course. however, we are on the right track for now. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteur, the committee and the members for supporting this strategy. i look forward to working with you to achieve the results that we all desire.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the following is the joint debate on - the report by elisabeth jeggle, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2001/114/ec on certain types of preserved milk, partially or fully dehydrated, intended for human consumption (com (2007) 58 final - c6-0083/2007 - 2007/0025 (cns)) (a6-0282/2007) - the report by elisabeth jeggle, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1255/1999 on the common organisation of the markets in milk and milk products (com (2007) 58 final - c6-0084/2007 - 2007/0026 (cns)) (a6-0283/2007), and the report by elisabeth jeggle, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 2558/2007 on the common organisation of the markets in milk and milk products (com (2007) 0058 final - c6-0085/07) - the proposal for a council regulation on the common organisation of the markets in milk and milk products (com (2007) 0058 final - c7-0086 final - cns) (a6-027/07)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work, which has allowed us to feel at ease with her proposals at all times. and i would like to thank you very much in particular for accepting the oral amendment i tabled on the distribution of milk in schools. and, having said that, i would like to reiterate my critical position on the progress of this mini-reform, when a thorough reform of the common agricultural policy is expected next year and a 'health check' of the cap in november, which, by the way, we do not yet know, commissioner, whether it will have consequences for this sector or not. but today, commissioner, the present situation - and mr stevenson has put it this way - is taking us in other directions. the crisis in agricultural commodity prices has reignited the debate on the agri-food question in europe. i differ with your diagnosis about the milk crisis. in my view the main cause of the rise in milk prices is not the increase in consumption in asia but the low productivity in the community. in fact, the collection in the last campaign has been the lowest in the last 15 years. according to some organizations, europe would need an additional billion litres a year to meet its needs. and the fact is that today consumers are burdened by the rise in the price of basic foodstuffs and farmers by the rise in the price of animal feed. although i share your view that the development of agrofuel production is not the last or the most important cause of the increase in agrofuels, let us not be mistaken, there are others. neither the reduction of set-aside nor the elimination of fallow land will be enough to stabilise prices. the commission should be very attentive to other types of speculation that are taking place, such as those that are taking place in the stock markets. because, you see, the big groups will be able - and in fact are already doing so - to pass on the increase in raw materials to the consumer without encountering any major difficulties, but that will be much more difficult for local producers, so the increase will penalise above all the most fragile smes. in fact - and mr stevenson has just said this - the increase is, for the moment, little reflected in the price received by farmers, who blame the imbalance between the price paid to them and the price paid by the consumer on a common agricultural policy based on incentives to abandonment. in these circumstances, madam commissioner, i would say that it is no longer enough for you to announce that the abolition of quotas will be carried out gradually. the discouragement of farmers, who are uncertain about the future of a commodity which they regarded as their own, as a heritage asset: the quota, and of which they are told that it will soon disappear, is one of the obstacles to the relaunch of milk production in europe, as was the sharp fall in the price of milk, which led many producers to other more profitable crops with less workload, producers who will no longer be able to take advantage of the rise in prices today. the difficulty of obtaining quotas, the difficulty of obtaining livestock - did you know, commissioner, that at the moment european farmers have to go to countries like canada or the united states to buy dairy cows because they cannot find livestock to buy on the community market? i would therefore ask you, madam commissioner, and i know that we will, to react in a way that is consistent with this new scenario, a scenario that was unthinkable just 12 months ago and whose consequences for the agri-food sector we should start discussing. in my view, as i read on your blog, it is not a question of hoping that the competitiveness of european farmers on world markets will not be too much affected, but of reacting quickly to prevent that from happening.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate mrs jeggle on her reports, which have clarified and improved the commission's proposals, and i only hope that the technical agreement reached in the special committee on agriculture will not prevent the council from taking into account the amendments adopted by parliament, such as the one concerning the non-abolishment of aid for private storage. i would also like to stress that this package of proposals contains significant elements that herald the beginning of an intermediate phase, which will lead to the abolition of the quota system, which is in principle planned for 2015. i am referring, for example, to the reduction in the intervention price for skimmed milk powder. the announcement of the abolition of milk quotas has, as the commissioner is well aware, created a situation of uncertainty among producers, with the consequent paralysis of the quota market, which has constituted a major obstacle to the necessary restructuring of the sector, at least in spain. we therefore ask the commission to submit as soon as possible proposals on the future of the sector which will answer questions such as the degree of gradual increase in quotas or the possible compensation for the loss of production rights or the level of direct aid following further reductions in intervention prices, questions which, among other things, need urgent attention in order to bring the sector out of this uncertain situation.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking those of you who are still present for a constructive debate. as there do not seem to be major differences in our opinion on the milk mini-package, i would take the opportunity to use my final comments on the ‘elephant in the room’. in the last couple of weeks, various stakeholders and media have put particular focus on the development of dairy prices in the community during the summer. i shall be more than happy to have this opportunity today to put things straight in order to avoid potential misunderstandings. it is a fact that prices for dairy products have gone up substantially since the beginning of the year, in particular as a response to the market and, as rightly mentioned, not as a response to the increased production of bio-energy. of course, there are some explanations for the increase in these prices, and i would like to come back to this a little later, but first i shall just put things into a more general perspective. we all know that the proportion of the income spent by european households on food has been going down gradually, year after year. today we are in a situation where the community is spending only about 12% on food and non-alcoholic beverages – a dramatic decrease, as you can see from the money spent. it was very interesting to see that a german newspaper made a very quick study, concluding that in order to buy one litre of milk a person had to work for 11 minutes in 1960 and only 3 minutes in 2006. while the average price for butter today is eur 4.10, it was eur 4.50 in 1982. these prices are nominal prices and do not take inflation into account. the current prices are coming from a historical low level, which was established after the 2003 reform, which for the industry provided a stronger competitive basis and for the dairy farmers provided compensation for potentially lower prices. let me now come back to the fundamentals in the current market situation. first, most subsidies have been suspended for some time and these are mainly the export refunds, the intervention buying, the various different disposal aids. secondly, we are in a situation today where intervention stocks are empty – with all the quantities sold out into the internal market. thirdly, the supply of butter has been reduced due to the lower production and empty intervention stocks. cheese production was a priority use for milk fat until recently, when the improved prices for butter have led the industry to expand butter production again. fourthly, although the cow’s milk collected this year is slightly higher than last year, it does not fully meet the increase in demand. i could continue naming other fundamentals, but basically we are today witnessing the play of market forces based on supply and demand. gone is the pre-reform market attitude that the intervention level was the price leading. the industry is now taking genuine commercial decisions, providing maximum return for further investments, while also allowing higher prices to be paid to the dairy producers – the farmers. in that context, i am pleased to see the positive development of raw milk prices during the last few months: 15-20% has been reported in some member states. however, we all know that the cost of production has been going up and milk production will only continue to expand if the profit margin can be maintained or even increased. therefore, i would take this opportunity to draw a somewhat positive conclusion. in a historical perspective, the current wholesale and retail prices are not dramatically high. the return from the market for the dairy industry and for the farmers is encouraging, and the public market support spending in this sector is now more or less reduced to actions with some social character. we should not let our policy decisions be dictated by short-term developments within the dairy sector, and throughout the next 12 months we will have an excellent opportunity to discuss ways and means to make the dairy sector move forward in a sustainable way. we all know that the milk-quota system is due to end by 31 march 2015. as i have already mentioned, i will launch a debate in november on the ‘health check’, and following discussions – including here in parliament – we will launch all the legal proposals during late spring 2008, so we can hopefully agree on the legislation to take place from 2009. in this context, we will take the opportunity to discuss in a broader context the whole dairy sector. i will examine which measures could be appropriate to try to find a soft landing for the expiry of the quota system in 2015. a soft landing could be, as has already been mentioned, some sort of an increase of the quotas before or in the mid-term up until 2015. i am quite sure that we will have a huge opportunity to have some very interesting discussions, including as regards the dairy sector in a broader context, throughout the next 12 months.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
mr president, i want to start by saying that we are not fighting a phenomenon, terrorism. in each case, a specific organization is being attacked, which has a specific political project and which has specific political objectives. we must therefore start by knowing what to call the terrorist organisation we are facing, and today the european union, fundamentally, as a risk for the future, is facing a jihadist terrorist organisation, which is not a phenomenon, but an organisation which has already overcome the fear and the fear of carrying out attacks and bombings in the heart of our continent. the difference between this organization and other traditional ones that have hit, and are hitting, the european union is that it remains a great unknown, because we do not know the pace of attacks and the reasons for the choice of countries, and because they have a markedly different sense of time from ours. the european union's institutions are not, therefore, required to draw up a comprehensive list of measures, as mr watson rightly said, but it is time to look for the foundations, the pillars and even the ground for the european institutions to play a role in the fight against terrorism. we need to find the address. it is not a question of stating measures and more measures in this area. we must understand that the role of the union's institutions must be in what we fundamentally need to combat this organization, which is intelligence and information. that is why, above all, we need a european model to combat this terrorist organisation, because otherwise, in the europe of 2025, if the european union is not an added value, if it is not useful and if it is not recognizable in its service to the europeans in this fight against terrorism, they will ask themselves what the european union is for.
mr president, i think that it has been said enough that the phenomenon of terrorism - which, by the way, are clearly recognizable groups - is not just a european issue, it is a global issue, as the council has said before, and we need, without a doubt, global and european responses. i believe, and in view of what mr frattini has said about what happened this morning in frankfurt - i have heard it too - that this is perhaps the most important challenge facing the union, because it affects not only the security of citizens and their physical integrity, but also aims to undermine something that is very important: it aims to undermine the values of democratic societies. and that is why it is so important that the european union seeks joint responses. i think that this oral question from parliament shows the interest of this parliament in making progress in the fight against terrorism, but it also shows that we are concerned, because mr watson has said a great many things that may be aberrations in the measures we are taking, because first of all we also have a democratic and freedom-loving responsibility in this fight which is very important and which we cannot forget. i also wanted to say that i think that the measures are necessary, as is everything we have done, and everything mr frattini says is going to come to us, and police work is indeed also very important, but it is not enough. we must also strengthen constructive integration policies and dialogue between different cultures. the alliance of civilizations i think is a very valid instrument in the fight against terrorism. we must continue with the references we have in tampere and what we have developed afterwards in the hague for the consolidation of what we say: the balance between freedom, security and justice. the european parliament therefore hastened to give its favourable vote to the prüm treaty before the summer. this ability to exchange accurate information quickly and efficiently is of paramount importance for achieving international cooperation against terrorism. it is true that we say that these rights of citizens and human beings must be reconciled with the guarantee of security. the european parliament is decisive, but as the council says, indeed, today this parliament has no say in anything that is done in this area. the decision is taken in the council by unanimity or not at all. and so i think that this weakens and slows down the european union's ability to respond to the new challenges. the european parliament - and i think mr watson has made that very clear - has only that kind of cooperation, and we should be the democratically elected assembly that should have the possibility of taking part in the decisions. we welcome the creation of the european agency for the protection of fundamental rights and hope that this agency will be able to exercise fair control over all the union's activities relating to this police and judicial cooperation. i would also like to stress that our group supports the european union coordinator for the fight against terrorism, whoever he may be, but let him come soon. but, yes, not a paper tiger, please, but a clear and reinforced mandate. and finally - and i will end with this - i think it is fair to say that the european union's action in the fight against terrorism and its consequences must include an essential dimension: support and protection for the victims and their families.
madam president, we all acknowledge the terrorist threat and we must go on reacting to it, without betraying who and what we are. we are a democratic society, ruled by the rule of law. it is as such, and only as such, that we must react against criminal acts and support the prevention against possible future attacks. however, we are entering a very dangerous path where everything appears to be allowed, under the excuse of prevention. we are subject to the moral blackmail of those who are saying: if you question this measure, you are putting us in danger – even if the measure is abusive or completely useless. that is unacceptable. yet that is what some of us have been accused of by officials of the commission when, for example, we question the measures in airport security or criticise a regulation that some days ago prevented a group of catholic pilgrims returning from lourdes in a vatican aeroplane to bring holy water with them from lourdes, which was considered a threat to security. we have the right to criticise that stupid piece of legislation and not accept the blackmail of being considered friends of terrorists, when fulfilling our responsibilities. signor commissario, questa è un'area - mi dispiace dirlo così - nella quale lei sta eludendo la sua responsabilità e ha lasciato la legislazione antiterroristica nell'area del trasporto aereo nelle mani di un gruppo di zeloti all'interno della commissione, i quali in una forma anonima stanno implementando in segreto questa legislazione. la sua responsabilità, come vice presidente della commissione incaricato di queste cose, di quest'area, è prevenire che questo succeda e continui a succedere. lei oggi avrà la legittimità di un voto all'interno del parlamento che le darà gli strumenti per andare a fare qualche domanda al suo collega incaricato dei trasporti all'interno della commissione. è la sua responsabilità e ci aspettiamo tanto da lei! i discorsi sui diritti fondamentali vanno in contraddizione flagrante con la legislazione segreta e sono in forte contraddizione con restrizioni arbitrarie della privacy e della libertà individuale. furthermore, much more efficient measures, which have already been approved, have not been implemented. do that exercise that you know well how to do: name and shame. name and shame the member states that are not implementing the measures on judicial and political cooperation, and you will have all our support in that.
mr president, commissioners, mr president-in-office of the council, first of all i should like to thank our authorities for their words of optimism in the face of the crisis we are experiencing. but at the same time i want to give you the greatest possible realism in this debate, because concealing the gravity of the facts only leads to confusion in the search for solutions. firstly, we are facing a predicted crisis. we are not facing a surprise crisis. we knew this was going to happen at least a year before and he's lacking waistline, he's lacking reaction capacity. secondly, we are facing a serious crisis. the president of the bundesbank himself said that just over three days ago. we may be in the throes of a classic banking crisis of distrust. thirdly, the european contagion comes precisely from financial institutions located in countries which, having failed to find profitability because their economies were relatively stagnant, have sought riskier profitability and, in that sense, there has also been a failure on the part of the supervisory authorities, the european prudential authorities, to prevent this approach. and that is why the european central bank is the first to intervene in the crisis, the one that injects the most money, precisely because it is in europe, in the heart of europe, which is now recovering in economic terms, where this crisis can really be the most serious. and to that end, we need more clarity in understanding the real impact, the real intensity of this crisis. the fourth, undoubtedly the most important, characteristic of what we are experiencing, of the situation we are living in, is ultimately the reaction of our monetary authorities, the reaction of the european central bank. in my view, he acted correctly when he made these injections of liquidity, because we were facing a withdrawal of liquidity. but it is also true that it is paradoxical that this is happening precisely at a time when interest rates in europe are being raised to restrict the liquidity of the system, to restrict credit. that is a great paradox which must be explained well and not with the confusion that has resulted from those explanations throughout the month of august. the clarification is essential because we are talking about the indebtedness of millions of households and we are talking about the indebtedness of millions of small and mediumsized enterprises, which depend on the variable interest rates in europe and, therefore, clarifying that interest rate scenario, calling for prudence in raising interest rates in europe is essential, when it comes to strengthening the economic growth and job creation that we so need at this stage of the construction of the european union.
mr president, after the storm, the skies are still not clear. and, alongside uncertainty, there is a demand for economic stability, financial security and growth and job creation. the crisis is a great opportunity to act on four main lines. first, to limit their impact on the economy as a whole. the market has reacted with stock market turbulence and a tightening of financial conditions. the response of the european central bank to provide liquidity has been positive. the financial institutions have already raised interest rates for their customers, ahead of those expected in a few months' time, taking into account the positive development of the economy and the announcements of the european central bank itself. i hope that the european central bank will act with balance and prudence for the sake of our economy. secondly, to improve risk management and economic governance. there is a symmetry between a global financial services market and a national system of regulation and supervision. if the european union does not promote these objectives in an integrated way within itself, it will not be able to raise them on a global scale and will not protect its citizens or defend their interests. thirdly, to make the market more transparent. risk diversification and centrifugation can be positive if it does not prevent the control of risks in the market. steps must be taken to know the financial risk map. and finally, to make operators more responsible. trapping low-capacity borrowers with very high, even predatory, mortgage prices at a time of rising exchange rates and the end of the uptrend in the housing market is a source of problems. the banks that relaxed the granting of mortgages to the possibility of transferring them, the rating agencies that did not alert about the quality of the securities, the investors who acquired them recklessly and the entities that financed them without additional guarantees have a responsibility, and we must ensure that this does not happen again.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be saving you a great deal of time, not least because i have already referred to the council's essential views on this matter in my first speech. i should now like to thank all the speakers for their comments and suggestions, and to say that i have taken note of them and of their concerns, particularly those which i would say are more of a social nature, namely the possible consequences that the recent events of financial turbulence may have for citizens and their lives. we will not fail to take note of this point, as concerns expressed by several members. i would like to reiterate that we, as the presidency, and the council, will continue to work on the convergence of supervisory practices and also on the schemes and mechanisms that allow continuous improvement of the prudential architecture. we have said here, both the council and the commission, that at this stage all the data available indicate that we have achieved our economic and financial objectives: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. however, this is all very realistically - and speaking of realism here, i mean that the presidency and the council will be realistic. we will be attentive to all these issues, to any developments that may occur in the future, and the presidency and the council, as they are responsible, and if this is justified, will not fail to take the actions and initiatives that can respond to the concerns and problems that may arise.
member of the commission. mr president, with regard to the impact of the turbulence - or crisis, if you wish to call it that - on the real economy in the financial markets in recent weeks, i repeat that, according to our first estimates - and we will publish forecasts next tuesday - but also according to opinions being made public by other public and private bodies and institutions, i repeat that the impact of these turbulences on economic activity, on economic growth, on employment in the european economies in 2007 will exist, but will in any case be very small. much of the 2007 results are already guaranteed by the results of the first two quarters, by the information available on what is happening in the activity of our economies in this third quarter and by the positive momentum of an economic recovery based on good foundations, on solid foundations, which we inherited from 2006. the risks will become more apparent looking ahead to 2008. already in our may forecast, growth rates for 2008 were affected by a maturing business cycle and the impact of monetary policy decisions taken by central banks. in europe and outside europe this financial crisis, these financial turbulences and the subsequent tightening of credit conditions, are going to accelerate or are accelerating those downside risks to the 2008 results, but still i think it's too early to make a definitive analysis, to draw definitive conclusions about it. it is to be hoped that, since much of the elements that have been encouraging the turbulence of the past few weeks have to do with trust, if we regain trust and if we all contribute with a rigorous view and a rigorous diagnosis of the situation to the improvement of trust, or the establishment of trust, the results in 2008 will be better or less worrying than some imagine. i think there is a fairly consistent diagnosis in most of the interventions about the reasons that have led to this increased volatility and turbulence in the financial markets and i think there is also a consensus that solutions have to be found. but the solutions are not simple and over-reacting is not advisable. like good actors in the theater, good politicians should not overexert themselves in times of turbulence. we have to go deeper into the analysis, into the understanding of the issues, and we have to try to find effective solutions to challenges that are there and that are obvious and that we have not discovered now. if we look back at the debates in this parliament or the reports on financial stability of the monetary fund or the central bank, the european commission's own analyses, our own interventions in the recent past, we did not know when, we did not know where, but we did know that turbulence of this nature could occur, given the evolution of financial markets, the sophistication of the instruments and techniques employed by financial institutions. i repeat what i said at the beginning: the european economy is still based on solid foundations. the euro is protecting us. once again, it has shown its ability to protect against and absorb in a positive way shocks which, under other circumstances, before the launch of the euro, would have created much greater difficulties for us, both from the monetary or financial point of view and in our real economy, and - lastly - the european central bank, in the exercise of its responsibilities, i believe that it acted wisely and correctly in august.
member of the commission. mr president, i shall be brief. i fully agree that we cannot be complacent about the supervisory challenges that are presented by increasingly complex financial products and off-balance sheet vehicles. neither can we be naive and believe that basel i, basel ii and solvency ii will solve the problems that have occurred. there are important lessons to be drawn, which i will be taking up with all concerned in the time ahead. as i said in my opening remarks, i believe a light-touch, principles-based regulation is the best approach. i am certain that more regulation now would be the worst thing we could do for financial markets. in any event, i do not believe that there is a need for more regulation. it might surprise mr rasmussen to know that i agree with something he has advocated, i.e. more transparency. however, there are other ways of achieving this than through regulation.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on - the oral question to the council on the objectives of the conference of the parties to the convention on the fight against desertification in madrid from 3 to 14 september 2007, by miroslav ouzký, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0049/2007 - b6-0140/2007), and - the oral question to the commission on the objectives of the conference of the parties to the convention on the fight against desertification in madrid from 3 to 14 september 2007, by miroslav ouzký, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0050/2007 - b6-0312/2007).
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you for your references to the portuguese presidency's programme on the environment, and in particular to the questions of drought and desertification. this is indeed a priority of the portuguese presidency, and i would like to highlight the results in this area achieved at the informal council of environment ministers recently held in portugal. i shall not read all the points in the presidency's conclusions on this. i think, however, that they are very interesting and important, and i would therefore like to draw attention to these conclusions, particularly as regards combating drought and the relationship between drought and the environment, and the measures that we can and should take to deal with this problem, which is a growing problem. i should also like to mention in more detail the holding of the conference of the parties to the united nations convention to combat desertification, which also occupies a very important place in this part-session of ours, a conference which, as you know, is taking place in madrid from 3 to 14 september and is therefore currently under way. on 23 july the council adopted conclusions setting out the priorities for the european union, which the european union must defend at this conference of the parties, which is the eighth since the adoption of the convention. you will know that the council supports the adoption by this 8th conference of the parties of the strategic plan and the ten-year framework to strengthen the implementation of the united nations convention which was drawn up by the intergovernmental working group inter-sessions and we look forward to its implementation. we recognise and advocate that in this context civil society has an important role to play, especially at local level, and we must therefore encourage greater participation by all civil society actors in the implementation or process of the un convention to combat desertification. they will also be aware that the conference of the parties will address the relationship between poverty and desertification, identifying the specific contribution that the convention can make to the fight against poverty in close cooperation with other relevant global and regional actors. the council considers it important to reach consensus on an improved monitoring system of the convention based on standards for the conservation, management and sustainable use of drylands. such a system will make it possible to measure the progress that has been or is being made. the role of the committee on science and technology is essential to strengthen the knowledge base of the convention and to enable more informed action and decisions to be taken. the council of the european union considers that the challenges of desertification, climate change and biodiversity are complementary and should be addressed in a coordinated manner by relevant policies in order to develop synergies and increase their effectiveness. the availability of adequate financial resources, effective management and financing of initiatives to combat desertification, and an effective and efficient secretariat for the convention are also vital elements, in the council's view. along with desertification, drought is also a serious cause for concern. the council is fully convinced that only by strengthening international cooperation can these threats, namely drought and desertification, be effectively tackled. that is why the european union is pursuing its objectives in this field in collaboration with third countries. i would remind you that the acp-ec council of ministers adopted a joint declaration on combating drought and desertification at its annual meeting on 25 may this year. this joint declaration between the acp countries and the european commission recognises the importance of the united nations convention to combat desertification for poverty reduction and the pursuit of the millennium development goals set by the united nations. the declaration also supports the adoption by the conference of the parties of the decade strategic plan and calls upon all parties to work together to enhance the effectiveness of the united nations convention. the definition of a limited number of implementation priorities to be identified on the basis of scientific data and the use of indicators to measure progress made are elements which we believe are of great importance in this context. on the other hand, greater involvement of civil society and better communication and a more in-depth dialogue between all the parties involved will also, in our view, contribute significantly to the effectiveness of the united nations convention to combat desertification.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since its signing in 1994, the european community has attached great importance to the role of the united nations convention to combat desertification in poverty alleviation. the convention was developed as the main tool to contribute to the objective of sustainable land use, in order to fight against hunger and poverty. the commission continues to regard this convention as a key building block in the joint fight against poverty and desertification. the convention remains a unique forum, with the competence and experience to learn lessons and design new approaches to how to address land degradation. current work within the convention is focusing on key issues in the implementation of actions, such as integration and coherence of actions within strategic cooperation frameworks. the countries concerned, as well as the donor countries, need to ensure that the development of the convention is closely linked to other key development initiatives and, in particular, they need to ensure that the country concerned owns and leads the process itself. as regards the european union's objectives for the madrid conference, firstly, the commission is particularly pleased that four members of the european parliament are part of the community delegation attending the conference. the convention is entering its second decade and needs to adapt to meet new challenges and take advantage of new opportunities. this means reviewing action through the convention, in order to maximise the effectiveness and efficiency of our work in combating land degradation and poverty. in this regard, the union's main objective at the madrid conference is the adoption of the 10-year strategic plan to strengthen the implementation of the convention, a plan developed by a working group in accordance with the conclusions of the last conference of the parties, which took place in 2005. this plan, which is strongly supported by the european union, represents the parties' common and renewed vision of the strategic direction to be taken over the next ten years. if this common vision is adopted, as we hope, we will need to develop an effective implementation framework to maximise the effectiveness of the work of the convention secretariat and its other institutions. finally, this reform package will be accompanied by a realistic budget acceptable to all parties, setting out an estimate of expenditure in line with the activities planned, and complying with very strict standards of transparency and clarity. last july, as the council representative said, the general affairs and external relations council adopted in its conclusions the overall approach to which i have referred.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. i am proud that we in parliament have been able to draw up a resolution which we are going to present at the next convention, which is already taking place in madrid, organised by the un, and that, moreover, i have just received the news that the spanish parliament has given us its authorisation, which is quite exceptional, and i thank mr marin, president of the spanish congress. however, i am quite skeptical about the issue of desertification. the european commission's own documents show that the aid that has been given over the years and the policy that has been undertaken have not produced the required results. why would you do that? because desertification policy would require integrated systems and an approach from all points of view and, unfortunately, administrations work separately: agriculture does not work with the environment, water policy works on its side and, really, the problems of desertification - for example, of the large area that is being abandoned, without activities, in the case of the mediterranean - are extraordinary. the european agricultural policy itself is causing land abandonment in the south, and throughout europe, and the cap is going to have a first impact on desertification. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the water supply in the community, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take this into account in its proposals for the future. i therefore want to call the attention of the countries to the fact that instead of creating observatories, they should adopt concrete policies and implement the programmes, because it is really a question of integrated projects in which the states must adopt integrated policies and active policies. i think we know all about desertification, but we do very little about it. that is the message we are going to take with us, to help this joint policy from europe.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, according to the united nations environment programme, desertification threatens a quarter of the world's land, 250 million people and the livelihoods of over a billion people in 100 countries, due to the decline in agricultural and livestock productivity. poverty, political instability, deforestation, overgrazing and poor practices are all factors that are deteriorating land productivity. i therefore hope that in madrid, more than 13 years after the birth of the un convention to combat desertification, the international community will discuss a reform of the convention itself, with a view to including measures to make the fight against this phenomenon more effective, in particular the draft ten-year strategic plan which is being discussed. soil erosion, uncontrolled urban development, the loss of fertile land, fires, deforestation and the over-exploitation of water resources are some of the causes of the depletion of many arid, semi-arid and dry lands. these causes are leading us inexorably to a growing desertification of the planet, which we must try to stop by all means. in this connection, we must also remember that desertification contributes, as the previous speakers have said, to climate change, because it causes soil degradation and vegetation loss, which is linked to increased emissions, and it would therefore be very interesting to support reforestation policies to restore and change the conditions of arid areas. as for the european union itself, i believe that it is essential to establish urgently a european observatory for drought, a subject which we have already raised several times in this house, as a centre for knowledge, mitigation and monitoring of its terrible effects, especially in southern europe. unfortunately, in the south-east of spain we are well aware of this problem, and i propose that the observatory could be located in the soil thematic centre of the european environment agency in barcelona, as proposed by the minister for the environment, cristina narbona, or in the centre for mediterranean environmental studies or the desertification research centre, both located in valencia, and which have concentrated their multidisciplinary activities in thematic areas related to desertification and where there is a wide range of international experience. i believe that the community institutions must be more involved in the field of desertification as a matter of urgency, so that the european union can take the kind of leadership it has been developing in the fight against climate change. i would like to conclude by saying that combating this problem is a great challenge, not only from the environmental point of view but also from the point of view of people, of human rights: many of them flee their land because of hunger and poverty caused, in large part, by desertification.
acting president of the council. i think i have detected in this debate, on the part of some of the members, some sadness, some dismay, perhaps some scepticism about what we can do in the future to combat drought and desertification in the face of what we have done so far in this field. but i think that the conditions and the context have changed significantly since 1994, and particularly in more recent times. i believe that the growing awareness that governments, politicians in general, civil society, our public opinion are becoming aware of the issues related to climate change, the environmental challenges we face and, in particular, the issues related to combating desertification, climate change, the problems of water scarcity, will help us to give a new impetus and a new impetus, with confidence, with optimism, in tackling the serious environmental problems that we are increasingly facing. we also have reason for some confidence and some optimism when we see the council of the union making important commitments, i would even say extremely important commitments, and showing great international leadership when it announces measures to combat climate change and proposes them as the norm, as targets to be achieved by the entire international community. portugal, as the presidency of the european union, will naturally have an important role to play in this area too, since we will be leading the european union at the bali conference which, as you know, will prepare the decisions we will have to take in this area after kyoto 2012. we believe that this madrid conference of the parties to the convention on desertification can indeed be a moment for renewing and modernising the commitments made in 1994. we hope so. we will have three or four priorities which we think would be useful if they could be met. firstly, we believe that the states parties to the convention must improve their internal coordination in combating desertification, that is, adopt a more integrated approach to the whole problem. the honourable member has pointed out that, internally, sectoral ministries often take measures without prior agreement on the objectives to be achieved and take them on an ad hoc and case-by-case basis. the coordination at national level between the various departments with responsibilities in this area must therefore be more effective and more efficient. it was pointed out in the house, and also by me in my opening speech, that it is very important that civil society should be more involved in implementing the measures that are needed to combat desertification. many of the problems are specific, localized problems, problems that themselves affect the local populations very much, and it is important that there is, also in this struggle, a sense of ownership or appropriation of the policies necessary to combat desertification. we must also strengthen the institutional mechanisms for implementing the convention. we also think it important that this cooperation and cooperation to combat desertification should be strengthened at regional and international level. the states parties to the convention often tend to look at their own problems from a purely national perspective. this is an area where we believe that, given the nature of the problems involved, regional and international cooperation is particularly warranted. finally, we have spoken of the budget, we have spoken of the financial allocation. that's an important point. we must also provide these mechanisms with the financial means to meet their needs. the creation of a european drought observatory was mentioned here. this was indeed one of the points discussed and debated by the ministers for the environment meeting informally in portugal, and it can be concluded from their debate that they consider the creation of this european drought observatory to be an important measure, both to draw attention to the problems connected with drought and to build the necessary model for the measures which have to be, or can be, implemented to combat drought. this is therefore, as i say, a measure which the ministers for the environment are looking forward to with interest and commitment. we must therefore wait for the results of the madrid conference, and hope that these results will be in line with our expectations.
ladies and gentlemen, it was a very interesting debate and i would like to point out that five female and three male colleagues spoke. i think it is very important and shows the particular sensitivity of our colleagues to such a fundamental issue. in order to close the debate, seven motions for resolutions have been tabled, pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 5.15 p.m. pending the next question time and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
acting president of the council. the implementation of the set of actions provided for in the council conclusions of 18 june 2007 shall be carried out by the institutions of the european union within the limits of the competences conferred on them by the treaty, in cooperation with the member states and, where appropriate, with the third countries concerned. the responsibility for the control and surveillance of the external borders lies with the member states. however, all member states participating in schengen cooperation, and not just those with external borders, have an interest in effective external border controls and some measures have been taken to promote solidarity and cooperation between member states in this area. the establishment of a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, commonly known as frontex, by regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 is an important step towards promoting such solidarity. in this context, the capacity of frontex was further strengthened by the adoption on 12 june of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a mechanism for the establishment of rapid border intervention teams and by the creation, during 2007, of a centralised register of available technical equipment, known as the toolbox, held by the member states and which could be made available to other member states. the launch of joint operations and pilot projects shall be carried out with the agreement of the member states concerned. rapid border intervention teams shall be established in response to a request from one or more member states. the role of frontex is to coordinate these activities. there are currently no plans to extend the scope of the decision-making powers of the commission or frontex in this context. in addition, the adoption of decision (ec) no 577/2007/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which established the external borders fund for the period 2007-2013 as part of the solidarity and management of migration flows programme, is another important step towards promoting solidarity and will create a new means of providing financial assistance to member states applying the schengen provisions at their external borders.
mr president, thank you very much for the information you have given me. i am aware of the constitutional limitations on the development of these cooperation mechanisms and also of the reluctance of many states to make greater commitments, but we are always in danger of the european union's words not being confirmed by the facts, and in particular in the operation of the frontex mechanism; as a result of the strictly intergovernmental and voluntary nature of cooperation, the words of the european union often remain in the air, that is, a programme starts to work and is interrupted because either the governments have not provided the materials or, after having offered them, they withdraw them, with which we find repeated statements that greatly disappoint public opinion, announcement of withdrawal of troops, once the operation has begun or after very limited and short periods. i hope that the presidency of the council will encourage the consolidation of a system which will make it possible to maintain this type of operation on a more permanent basis.
acting president of the council. i have little more to add to what i said in my first reply on this issue, and in particular to reiterate our commitment that the community acquis will be applied in full and wherever necessary when environmental issues are at stake. i therefore assume that our statement is in line with and responds to the concerns expressed by the honourable member.
acting president of the council. i would like to say that the council is following with interest the case of mordeshai vanunu, in particular his situation following his release in 2004, to which the honourable member refers in her question, as stated in her replies to questions h-0577/04, h-0302/05, p-1687/05 and e-3413/05.
acting president of the council. i would like to inform you that, following preliminary consultations with the member states, the portuguese presidency has decided to relaunch the debate on the proposal for a directive on temporary agency work which it considers to be an important element in the debate on flexicurity. since this dossier has not been examined by the council since 2004, it is appropriate to take stock of the current state of play and to consider possible ways forward. the presidency will shortly take the necessary steps to that end.
acting president of the council. thank you very much. mr. deputy, about your question. as i have said, this is a dossier on which the portuguese presidency wants to work and to make progress. we have always said that the success of a presidency depends first of all on the presidency itself, but it must also rely on the commitment, the collaboration and the will to move forward of all the member states. this is one of those cases where, if we do not have all the member states on our side, we will not be able to make a success of it, so to speak. we would like to see, during the portuguese presidency, if we cannot reach a full agreement, at least make significant progress. we will work towards this, hoping, as i say, that our partners can accept our suggestions and our proposals, but also having here an approach to this issue which we want to be realistic because we know that this is a complex debate and it is a complex issue, as the very history of this directive has shown. as regards flexicurity, i would like to say that for portugal and for this presidency, flexicurity means flexibility but also security, and the two go hand in hand for us. thank you very much.
the european union is born of values that cannot be surrendered. just as we are closely watching that our member states do not violate the right to liberty, or to life, or to democracy, we must decisively influence, through dialogue, those countries with which we have political, commercial, economic, partnership relations, etc., to be also respectful of human rights. within the complexity and scale of the union's external relations, the space occupied by human rights dialogue and consultation with third countries may go unnoticed or take a back seat. if that were the case, and we allow it, we would be making a very serious mistake. this report deals with the aspects necessary to improve a task which is an obligation of the european union, according to article 11, and which also falls within the field of political ethics. human rights must become the banner of european foreign policy and the union must use its influence to improve the living conditions of the people of those countries with which we have relations. this is one of the key policy points of this report. when we sit down to negotiate economic or trade agreements with a country in which fundamental rights are being violated, we cannot put figures, agreements and contracts on the table while shamefully hiding under the carpet the situation of its citizens. if we leave human rights out of the negotiating room, we are falling into the most macabre cynicism. we must also take a close look at the role played by civil society and human rights defenders, who are sensitive and essential voices for the advancement of all oppressed societies. the report we are discussing today evaluates one of the main instruments available to the european union for the objectives i have mentioned and also for clearly defining the role we want to play in the world order. only through respect and reciprocity can we advance in the task of promoting human rights. it is not at all a question of acting through impositions or patronizing. we are not in a position to give anyone too many lessons, but we are obliged to maintain consistency in our external action and to favour relations with those countries which are making progress, avoiding imbalances and tailor-made recipes which undermine our credibility. the report i am presenting to this house today calls for action at three levels: more coherence in the conduct of dialogues and consultations, which will require greater coordination between the council - which i miss in this debate - the commission and parliament, using some mechanism to facilitate fluid communication and to avoid contradictions between the various community institutions. it is a question of speaking the truth with one clear voice. the commission is also proposing to make the dialogue and consultations transparent, which should be a principle and not an exception in the field of human rights. the flexibility and pragmatism needed to achieve concrete results must not be matched by an opacity in the agenda, objectives or outcome of the dialogue. we call for a strengthening of the role of the european parliament, which, ladies and gentlemen, is largely absent from the management of this instrument, without there being any legal or formal justification for this. the european parliament is prepared to act responsibly in the area of its external competence. the european parliament has established itself as the leading european institution in the field of human rights, placing them at the centre of its attention, and is determined to use all the means at its disposal to assert its role as the political guarantor of the union's external action. the european parliament calls on the commission and the council to listen to and implement the recommendations contained in this report, which has been widely endorsed by all the political groups in this house. the voice of parliament, ladies and gentlemen, must be heard. we know that what we are asking for will require a great deal of effort and we therefore consider the need to increase the resources devoted to the human rights units, both in the commission and in the council, the latter being absent from this debate. however, this is the minimum required of a european union which intends to defend before the world that human rights are an indispensable european value. if we want to be credible, we have to work together in this direction.
madam president, i should like to summarize in a minute and a half some of the fundamental ideas which have led us not only to support but also to defend this initiative and to congratulate mrs elena valenciano on her work and the consensus she has shown. i would also like to welcome the presence and interest of mr borg and mr mattisen, but at the same time i regret that the first two seats, the first two seats of the council, are empty. i think that this subject deserved no such absence and it must be said and, as has already been said, it must be reiterated. the three points which i think are important to stress and which i would like to stress are, firstly, the need, and we shall never say it enough, to strengthen the coherence of these instruments, to reinforce the fact that we cannot, on the one hand, regret certain facts and, at the same time, keep them quiet when it suits our interests. the second element which i think is important, and which has also been mentioned, but i repeat it, is the need for improvement, transparency, in relation to this type of mechanism and this necessarily implies greater involvement on the part of this parliament. it has been said many times that we are completely, let us say surprised, to put it mildly, at the absence of many of these debates, not only in simple participation, but in the information that we often require. and last but not least, the important role played by the 14 paragraphs in this report on the role of women in human rights, and here, as vice-chairman of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i welcome the incorporation of many of the amendments that we adopted and discussed in our committee. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i would like to refer to three aspects of this excellent report. firstly, the role of this parliament in the democratic control of the strategic documents relating to the financial instruments for external aid. in the last plenary session we again discussed and criticised the commission's failure to fulfil its commitment to transparency and parliamentary control in the framework of the financing instrument for development cooperation. i hope that is something that will not be repeated in this matter. secondly, i would like to ask the commission to inform parliament as soon as possible when and how it proposes to implement the post-election protocol mechanism in the context of the election observation missions proposed in this report. and thirdly and lastly, the report calls on the council and the commission to analyse, support and coordinate the establishment of benchmarks for the european union's dialogue with actions of other donors and other international organisations, especially in the existing mechanisms in the united nations. tomorrow we shall be debating in this house an urgent resolution on the financing of the special tribunal for war crimes in sierra leone, set up by the united nations. i think it is an example of the lack of coordination that exists today between the union and international bodies and a good example of the work that remains to be done. i hope, therefore, that this report will be a step forward in achieving this coordination.
madam president, in the second half of the 20th century, and especially in the last three decades, democracy and respect for human rights have made enormous progress, but much remains to be done. a few months ago in berlin, in the declaration adopted on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of rome, the institutions of the union solemnly expressed their desire to promote freedom and democracy in the world. in this policy we must start openly from the principles that respect for human rights concerns the entire international community and that they are universal. these two ideas are expressly set out in the outcome document adopted at the 2005 new york summit. the idea that there are parts of the world which, for one reason or another, are exempt from respect for human rights is not acceptable. that is, there are regimes from which respect for freedoms cannot be demanded. i would like to recall here the brilliant essays of the nobel laureate amartya sen on the global roots of democracy and democracy as a universal value. in short, the promotion of human rights must play a very important role in the union's relations with all third countries. one of the instruments is the dialogue channel, which is why i welcome the preparation of a report that helps to organise and systematise the human rights dialogues that the european union has with other countries. i welcome the fact that paragraph 31 of the report calls on the council to establish clear criteria for the initiation or suspension of dialogue and to require a prior impact assessment. i also agree that dialogue should not be an end in itself. and i would like to end this speech by making a brief reference to cuba, which is not mentioned in the report and where, unfortunately, human rights and basic freedoms are still not respected. however, the council has recently decided to propose the opening of a comprehensive dialogue with cuba that includes these rights. the majority of this parliament is well aware of its position, which does not share the somewhat erratic policy which the council has been pursuing for the last three years with the castro regime. we should, above all, insist firmly on the release of political prisoners.
the rapporteur. - madam president, let me say first of all that today a spanish fishing vessel sank off the coast of andalusia, killing three people and leaving five missing. i ask this parliament to join in the grief of the families and the desire for the rescue of the missing seamen. and with that, i move on to the report we are dealing with today. the first thing i would like to stress, as the commission itself acknowledges and as this parliament has expressed on numerous occasions, is the utter failure of the community fisheries management system which, throughout its many years of existence, has neither ensured the sustainability of resources nor supported an efficient and profitable fisheries sector. paradoxically, the management system is the only one that has not been fully involved in the great reform of 2002, and therefore the commission has to patch up here and there, tackling unsustainable discards, inventing control measures and introducing recovery plans every day, but without addressing the substance of the matter: the definition of a coherent and updated framework for the fisheries management model. in this context, the commission's communication opts for maximum sustainable yield as a benchmark for long-term fishing, a theoretical model that seeks to combine the most efficient exploitation of a species, while ensuring biological sustainability. the problem is that the maximum sustainable yield - which as an intellectual and theoretical concept may be beyond reproach - has revealed many contradictions in its practical application and, in fact, is now widely considered obsolete by much of the scientific community. the question would therefore be to redefine the model in such a way as to adapt it to the reality of community fisheries. and here we have a series of questions about how to do that, which the report we are presenting today has tried to highlight and which are not answered in any way by the commission's communication, which is very ambiguous and very vague. it is clear that we are not criticizing the commission's intention here to impose a new management model but its inability to explain to us how it will overcome the difficulties of putting it into practice and of overcoming the pitfalls that the very maximum sustainable yield contains in its very formulation. among them, we know that maximum sustainable yield requires long series of reliable and accurate scientific data, whereas for the vast majority of species, such a degree of certainty is not possible. on the other hand, the model was created on the basis of exploitation of a single stock, whereas the vast majority of community fisheries are multi-specific, which means that many of them are overexploited or under-exploited, which is clearly contrary to the very definition of maximum sustainable yield. it is also not good for pelagic species, and we also know today that the state of populations is influenced by other factors, such as recruitment failures or environmental factors, which can lead to erroneous definitions of maximum sustainable yield. what is certain is that strict application of the maximum sustainable yield will in the short term result in a reduction, sometimes drastic, of fishing opportunities and therefore of the activity, income and employment of the community fleet. madam president, allow me to thank all my colleagues for their contributions and to ask for the adoption of a report in which the committee on fisheries would ask the european commission to first clear up all these uncertainties before introducing a military version of a model whose effectiveness for many fisheries is scientifically and economically in question to some species of great economic importance; to first seriously tackle a clear fisheries management system with an ecosystem approach, and then decide on the adaptation of the reference points and the model chosen, whether based on the msy or another, and not without first - i insist on this - accompanying it with a socioeconomic analysis of the repercussions of its implementation and the measures to counteract its impact, all of which are issues of great concern to our sectors and to us ourselves right now.
madam president, i think it is very late, we are all very tired and i think we are a little shocked by the terrible news of the death of three fishermen and the disappearance of five others in the waters off cadiz. the boat belonged to the barbate fleet. in this sense, i think, commissioner, that one of the main problems raised by this communication is that, by seeking to act on resources by restricting fishing activities alone, without obliging the rest of the economic actors with activities linked to the marine ecosystem, it loses - and we all lose - political legitimacy, especially because the commission's directorate for fisheries is also responsible for maritime affairs. the second concern, or question, i have is how the commission sees the application of msy from a practical point of view, and that is that everything indicates that problems are arising, and serious problems, especially in the case of mixed fisheries where different species interact with each other and the catch rate which determines the level of effort does not correspond to the msy of each species individually. another problem we have is with those populations for which we have no evaluation of any kind. the fact is that the professionals in the sector are concerned and are right when they say that the gaps left by the community fleet in responding to the rms, to this political commitment of the rms, will be immediately filled by companies from third countries, since the fisheries market is conditioned by the need to ensure continuous supply.
madam president, the revision of the consumer acquis can improve the functioning of the internal market, strengthening consumer protection and business competitiveness. increasing market security and reliability can reduce costs, increase transactions and stimulate investment. in short, to meet the objectives of the revised lisbon strategy. the opinion of parliament's committee on economic affairs has stressed both the priority of the application of special consumer protection rules in the field of financial services and the need for their treatment to respond to a comprehensive and systematic integrated approach to the matter throughout the european union. it also insisted that the review be carried out with the participation of stakeholders, in accordance with the principle of good governance. this approach is reflected to a large extent in the report, which advocates a global approach, a mixed or combined approach between a horizontal instrument and other sectoral instruments, and the scrupulous application of the principles of better regulation. consumer protection can banish undesirable practices and prevent the accumulation of imbalances which are at the root of major conflicts. we have already discussed yesterday the situation caused by mortgages granted in the united states to groups of people with limited resources, with high prices, sometimes predatory, and with irresponsible promotions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of consumer protection, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the annual report on complaints and claims of users of financial services can be a very useful tool and can increase education. anything that progresses in this area will be very positive.
author. - mr president, i was fortunate to be part of the electoral observation mission that took part in the electoral process in sierra leone last august and i must say that we were all, first of all, deeply impressed by the professionalism with which the mission, led by my colleague from my group, mrs isler béguin, was and is being carried out. i also had the opportunity to visit the special court on the spot and to hear directly from mrs mansaray, the head of the registry, about the work that this court is doing. during the visit we were constantly told that without justice there would be no peace. that is precisely the importance of this court. the fact that crimes do not go unpunished, as this resolution so often states, is fundamental to the further consolidation of the peace process in sierra leone. and it was very expensive and costs a lot of money, because the work of this court has been titanic; to reconcile scrupulous respect for the law, the rule of law, in a country that has been devastated by civil war is very difficult. the first task was to gather testimonies and it was not easy: the population had to be convinced that they would not be retaliated against and that they would not suffer any more harassment. the second task was to convince the population that all those involved in human rights violations could be prosecuted, not just the guerrilla leaders. moreover, i repeat, the respect for the defence of the accused has been scrupulously safeguarded. this court also made a historic decision in 2004 by refusing to recognize the applicability of a national amnesty for perpetrators of war crimes and crimes against humanity. without justice, then, there is no peace. that's why it's so important to contribute to the funding of this court. we have an obligation to contribute to peace and stability in the mano region. the special court is also an example of the reform of the judicial system in sierra leone itself, and i hope that the commission will be able to take advantage of the fact that it is here to explore the possibility of including some budgetary aid for the projects for the reform of the judicial system in sierra leone that are being carried out by the united nations.
the european council of march 2007 adopted an agreement for the european union to generate energy from renewable sources in its total energy consumption. the european parliament is voting tomorrow on the report, in which we show our support for the council and the commission in their proposals for future legislation in this area, and i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs thomsen, on her excellent report and on her willingness to speak and to reach agreement with everyone. the report calls on the commission to submit a proposal for a legislative framework for renewable energy and stresses the importance of creating and implementing renewable energy action plans at community and national level. these plans should encourage investment, innovation and research in all sectors related to clean and low-emission sources, and to do this we need more investment in r & d & i to make renewable sources as competitive as conventional energy sources. in my group we are not in favour of binding objectives, we believe that subsidiarity should be replaced by compulsion. subsidiarity should also be used to set sectoral targets for renewable energy. we do support calls for increased efforts by the member states to research, support, reduce administrative burdens and simplify procedures to facilitate the development of renewable energy sources. and in defence of the internal market we think that a harmonised, effective and efficient support system must be a long-term objective to ensure a more efficient use of renewable energy technologies. we call on the commission to ensure that any proposal for a framework directive on renewable energy also contains measures to promote heating and cooling from renewable energy sources, which are the least developed so far. we also welcome the commission's proposal to promote biofuels and other renewable energy sources for transport, and we call on the commission and the member states to make a greater effort to develop second generation biofuels in order to avoid many of the tensions that are being created by the shortage of raw materials. although the shortage of raw materials is not the fault of biofuels, there are a number of factors which influence and which must be taken into account, including the common agricultural policy.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the future is here. it is time for renewable energy sources and only a renewable energy boom, together with much greater energy efficiency, can help us deal with the climate change crisis and the energy supply crisis. thank you for this excellent report. we can chart a medium- and long-term path to boost renewables and encourage the reluctant, which i see are still many. this report rightly calls on the commission to provide a legislative framework for the promotion of heating and air conditioning from renewable sources. it calls for a fairer energy market for renewables, with a stronger emissions trading scheme: internalizing the costs of polluting sources and eliminating the massive, perverse subsidies that fossil fuels receive. it wants to promote offshore wind, emphasises solar energy, high temperature, and calls for more research funding for energy storage and the adaptation of grids to renewables. the commission is also calling for an action plan to promote green building, since 40% of the energy consumed in europe is in the housing and building sector. we have reached a point of contention. the debate on agrofuels raises an ethical and principled question: to eat or to drive? if this report approves a binding target of 10% biofuels, we must be aware that we are fuelling a conflict between 800 million drivers and car owners on the one hand and the two billion poorest people in the world on the other, who are competing for the same grain. the euphoria of plant fuels may endanger food security in europe and the world. and we don't even know if the energy balance is positive. at most, the production of agrofuels. with high oil prices, it's cheaper every day to burn grain than to make bread or feed dairy cows. we must therefore proceed with great caution and without binding objectives. moreover, these objectives have already been questioned by major international bodies and many scientific experts. we can't let the cure make the disease worse. we are confident that the precautionary principle will be applied and that we will act with prudence in this important debate.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her serious and rigorous work. i think mrs thomsen has once again shown herself to be a very good expert on this subject. the analysis of the current situation in the report is not only correct but also balanced. fossil fuels are running out, they come from politically unstable parts of our planet and are, to date, a significant source of co2 emissions, and our energy needs are increasing. to meet them and to ensure a secure supply, we need to find new, massive sources of energy that are not polluting and that make us less dependent on the outside world. in this context, the progress being made in renewable energy is of particular importance. it is also important to note that the european union's research industries are leading the world market in this sector, thanks to their investment in research, and are making a major contribution to job creation and competitiveness. two important objectives in our lisbon strategy. the situation in the various member states with regard to renewables is very different, as are the political and legal frameworks in each country, which are too often inadequate. nevertheless, the limited legislation in place has been effective in driving more sustainable development in many of our member states, even though in such important areas as heating and cooling, there is still no legislation at all. if we are to make progress, the legislative framework that the commission is presenting must be ambitious. it improves and strengthens the existing one and also provides for binding targets for electricity, transport, heating and cooling. and it is also essential that member states implement these agreements promptly. in order to meet the binding 20% target, it is also essential, as the report rightly points out, that electricity from renewable energy sources has better access conditions to the grid. open, non-discriminatory, efficient and sufficiently developed access to support large amounts of electricity from renewable energy sources. i certainly share the rapporteur's view that separating ownership of the transmission network from production would be the best guarantee of non-discrimination in access to the network for renewable energy producers. it is also important to speed up the implementation of projects of european interest for the transeuropean energy networks. the recent appointment of coordinators for projects facing technical, political or financial difficulties is a step forward in this respect. and finally, i would say that both the commission and the member states must continue to encourage investment, innovation and research in these sectors. and they must also make every effort to ensure that energy from renewable sources is affordable, so that the achievement of the objectives set out in the legislation does not impose a burden on consumers or industries as a result of an exorbitant increase in energy prices.
mr president, the decision of the heads of state and government to approve a mandatory target of 20% for renewable energy in our energy mix by 2020 has had a major impact worldwide and marked a milestone in the community's climate change and energy policies. parliament will vote on its report tomorrow, in which we show our support for the council and the commission in their proposals for future legislation in this area. as co-legislators, we have an obligation to develop economically viable policies, which respond to the real needs of society and always take account of the technological framework at our disposal. the objective of 20% of our energy mix coming from renewable sources will only be cost effective and only viable if two conditions are met: that the price of a barrel of oil remains high and that the price of a tonne of co2 is appropriate. the impact studies carried out by the commission are based on a co2 price of around eur 20 per tonne. the current price is between 12 and 15 cents. with these figures, the cost-benefit calculations are not as attractive as we would like, so in the next review of the emissions trading framework we must take this into account if we want the industry and consumers to receive the appropriate signals. there is no doubt that diversification of clean, low-emission sources must remain a priority in energy policy. after this courageous gesture by the council last march, the time has come for member states to negotiate their burdens and obligations. i would like to conclude, mr president, by calling on the council to make this distribution as soon as possible and to ensure that no one feels that he is a loser or a winner if we are to reach a firm compromise.
mr president, i think we can almost all agree that the european union must respond to three fundamental challenges: firstly, the depletion and increasing cost of conventional energy sources; secondly, of course, we must contain the increase in dependence on energy imports, and thirdly, of course, we must also help to stop climate change. energy sources can clearly be a very important contribution to meeting these challenges. of course, there is a commitment to reach 20% of total consumption from renewable sources by 2020 and it is clear and obvious that member states must be free to choose the most appropriate renewable energy sources according to their own situation. but what is also clear is that it is essential that they commit themselves, that there be a clear political commitment, to achieve these objectives that we have set ourselves together. i would like to emphasize four points. firstly, renewable energy sources are not incompatible with other sources of energy which can contribute to the stability of supply but which must be the priority alternative. other energy sources, such as nuclear, are not disposable, but have not yet found solutions to overcome their persistent problems, such as waste management and high construction costs. the use of biofuels, on the other hand, should be based on a high degree of prudence and sustainability criteria. otherwise, serious environmental impacts and negative social consequences may result. there is also a great potential for the development of renewable energy in the field of new housing or infrastructure construction. finally, i would like to refer to the social dimension of energy policy, in the sense that the introduction of renewable energy must not lead to price increases which leave heating or electricity out of reach of consumers and, in particular, of the most vulnerable sections of society, who suffer particularly when energy prices increase.
we have concluded a new stage in the process of modernising, and i would say europeanising, the railways, because we needed to agree on the general rules of the game. and there is agreement on the report by mr jarzembowski, who, by pushing the plenary's mandate to its limits, has achieved an agreement satisfactory to all, despite the current imbalance between those who have open systems and those who have instead invested time in improving the infrastructure, for example in my country because of the problem of track width, and who, moreover, need more time to achieve the minimum level to play on equal opportunities. however, i consider it of the utmost importance that the final agreement on the jarzembowski report preserves the right and the capacity of the commission to decide what it presents as a proposal for the final stage. in this sector, which is safe and sustainable as we know it and as we claim it, we must remain safe and sustainable. but if we thought the hardest part was this opening, it turns out it was the most complex part of the human being. i am not referring to the agreement on drivers, but to the fact that mr savary has managed to establish quickly and firmly the conditions for the trains to be driven by drivers who have shared their training and accreditation. and we have the promise that in the not too distant future other crew will also be able to operate under the same or similar conditions. as i said, the most difficult issue was not these issues but, finally, the rights and obligations of rail passengers; to achieve this at both national and transnational level was a fundamental achievement. citizens would not have understood that they had achieved something at the cross-border level when it is at the national level that they suffer these conditions on a daily basis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that it is not enough, that we want more, and that the associations, particularly once in my country, have asked for more and are demanding more, and we know that we must therefore continue, but we believe that tonight with the sterckx report we have succeeded in opening a path that is promising. and finally, to say that now that we have finished this stage, another one just as promising as this one opens up, in which we are already fully engaged. we have to make sure that the european union is not the only one to have a european security policy. and finally, as far as transport is concerned, as far as the great stakes and the great challenge of rail freight transport are concerned, we are left with the projects which the commission is about to present to us concerning a system or networks of railways specifically dedicated to goods, and with all the support and reinforcement which rail logistics needs in order to make the european nodes which are scattered today a real transport network for the future.
mr schulz, we have included your comment in the minutes and we have taken good note of it.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mrs katerina batzeli, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the restructuring of the sugar sector (com (2007) 227 - c6-0176/2007 - 2007/0085 (cns)) and the report by mrs katerina batzeli, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector (com (2007) 227 - c6-0177/2007 - 2007/0086 (cns)).
mr president, commissioner, it is almost two years since the adoption of a legislative package for the reform of the sugar sector, which was intended to adapt it to a globalised market which, to be honest, left our farmers with few opportunities. as you will remember, it was a traumatic reform and one which was difficult to agree on in this parliament. it seems that the quota reduction targets are not being met, which is why the commission is now presenting us with this new proposal in an attempt to redress the situation before it is too late. the commission proposal seems to us to be in principle a positive one, since it gives farmers the opportunity to take some initiative in abandoning the system. but in certain respects, commissioner, we also think it is insufficient and may have undesirable effects in some countries, such as spain. i would therefore like to stress two points which i consider to be very relevant. on the one hand, i would like to stress the importance of the amendments we have tabled as a socialist group, and on this point i would like to thank our rapporteur, katerina batzeli, for her contribution to the need to extend the supplementary withdrawal aid for farmers to the 2009-2010 marketing year in certain cases. this amendment is vital for us to ensure that the measure does not fall short and that producers can see their expectations fulfilled. secondly, i would like to draw attention to the amendment which was adopted in committee on my behalf and which comes to the house under number 11, on the desirability of considering total decommissioning or conversion of plants for the production of bioethanol. the aim of this measure is twofold: on the one hand, it encourages abandonment 'by giving these plants an outlet on other markets' and, on the other hand, it encourages a sector such as biofuels at a time when there is so much talk about the need to increase supply. commissioner, this reform has already been traumatic for many countries, including my own, and i believe that there should be money and the possibility of maintaining incomes for farmers who want to leave, but above all for farmers who want to continue.
madam president, thank you very much to the commissioner for being here. i believe that the commissioner, the rapporteur and many of the speakers have underlined the problems encountered in the implementation of the 2005 sugar reform, and that the abandonment of production has been delayed far from the target of six million tonnes set by the reform. i think we all appreciate the commission's proposal which is now before us and which will give a new impetus to abandonment. and the sector, mainly beet growers, also welcomes the acceleration of this restructuring process, because, as the commissioner has also said, otherwise, in 2010 we will see a linear cut in quotas, and no aid funds to compensate for these cuts. i believe that this philosophy, this new proposal, is reflected in the amendment i have tabled on behalf of the group of the european people's party - amendment no 31 - which calls for the preparation of an evaluation report on the reform and, if necessary, proposals to extend this aid fund initially for a period of four years for one year, during the 2010-2011 campaign, in order to compensate for this initial delay in the implementation of the reform. this is a demand made by the producers and i think it should be supported, especially since this fund is financed exclusively by the sector and therefore has no financial impact on the community budget. i ask that this amendment, madam commissioner, be approved by the commission and, of course, by my colleagues. finally, i can only thank mrs batzelli for her work, her reports and the improvements she proposes, with the support of the whole committee on agriculture, to the proposal which the commission has put forward.
mr president, the recall of dangerous toys in august and september caused social alarm. but i think we should not contribute to the alarmism because, in general, the toys sold in europe are probably the safest in the world. however, reality shows that we must improve european standards for protecting safety, especially for products that come into direct contact with consumers, such as toys or textiles. the situation created should give greater impetus to market surveillance, inspection and the prohibition or withdrawal of dangerous products. but sometimes the priority is to raise profit margins, putting increasing pressure on companies and increasing risks. we must demand that china increase security, but it is essential to cooperate with them to achieve these objectives. in the run-up to christmas, when millions of toys are bought in europe, it is necessary that all the authorities involved, from the commission to the local authorities, and also the manufacturing and marketing companies, act responsibly, take extreme precautions and commit themselves to ensuring the safety of toys. we are all very interested in providing transparency, security and confidence to european consumers.
acting president of the council. i would like to thank you, madam president, and the members for your thoughts, comments and questions. this was, and i knew it would be, an easy debate for the council. it is easy because the council and the european parliament are united on the fundamental issue, namely that we obtain a resolution on the moratorium and abolition of the death penalty at the next session of the united nations general assembly, and it is with obvious satisfaction that i see that we are united on this central objective of the debate we are having here and that we will work together to make this possible. as a portuguese member of parliament has said, i am also very proud to be representing portugal in this debate because we were the first country in europe to abolish the death penalty. it is a subject, a question, a problem to which the portuguese are particularly sensitive and i am proud to be able to say so here and to be able, at this moment, to lead the council's efforts at the united nations with a view to the objective we have set ourselves. i'm not here to talk about the past. we must learn from the lessons of the past, of course, and that is why we must naturally avoid the mistakes we may have made which have prevented us in the past from achieving the objectives we set ourselves. the past is the past, let's focus on the future. let us concentrate with determination, with resolve, knowing that it is not a politically easy task, but that it is possible, and when we talk about flexibility, we talk about confidence in the work of the presidency; the european parliament, knowing that this is a politically complex, sometimes even difficult, issue, will naturally rely on the presidency, on the efforts of the presidency, on the work of the presidency to ensure that we can successfully achieve this objective. we shall table the draft resolution in early october, early to mid-october. that is our intention and i can tell you that the multiplicity of approaches, efforts and contacts we have made gives us some confidence. let us hope that this confidence, as time goes on, will grow because our cause is a just cause. and i would also like to say to you, in conclusion, that we already have co-authors with the european union who will sign this draft resolution with us and i can also say to you here that i am very proud that among these signatories are portuguese-speaking countries, representing africa, representing asia and also representing latin america, countries which, like us, like the portuguese, also subscribe to the respect for the total value of life. we are confident, i repeat, that with your support and your confidence, the portuguese presidency will succeed in achieving this objective at the 62nd united nations assembly, and in having a resolution adopted in the manner that the european parliament and the council wish it to be adopted.
acting president of the council. the council takes the view that decisions of this kind require unanimity.
acting president of the council. we believe that the association agreement between the european union and mercosur must be comprehensive in all its aspects, that is, political, economic and cooperation, and aim not only at promoting trade and investment but also at strengthening in a decisive way the strategic relationship between the european union and that region. this agreement will create the largest free trade area between two regional blocs, with a population of about 700 million, strengthening economic and social integration, facilitating investment and providing significant economic growth for both regions. the results of the doha agenda negotiations have certainly shaped the negotiating process. however, we cannot look at the association agreement from an economic perspective alone, and it is necessary to stress the importance of its political dimension. the balance between the political and economic components is essential if we are to achieve the qualitative leap forward we all want in the relationship between the european union and mercosur. it is inevitable, however, that after seven years of negotiations we are at an impasse. this deadlock is the result of a discrepancy or difference between the bids submitted. on the one hand, the european union's policy covers all sectors, and on the other, mercosur's policy omits sectors which are of great importance to the european union. the portuguese presidency hopes that the political commitment shown by mercosur will translate into an improved offer so as to enable the commission to resume negotiations with a view to a rapid conclusion of an agreement which is fair and balanced for both parties. the strategic partnership between the european union and brazil, which was established at the lisbon summit on 4 july, should be seen not only as a means of strengthening relations with brazil but also as a way of promoting the bi-regional strategic relationship between the european union and latin america and, in particular, the european union's negotiations with mercosur. the joint declaration resulting from this summit with brazil clearly demonstrates the commitment to the conclusion of the negotiations on the eu-mercosur association agreement. with regard to brazil in particular, and in view of the country's growing strategic importance on the international scene, this partnership, established under the portuguese presidency, marked the beginning of a new relationship between the european union and brazil, similar to the one already existing with russia, india and china. the partnership will be developed on the basis of an action plan which will include the strengthening of dialogue and cooperation in the areas of mutual interest set out in the commission's communication to the council on the eu-brazil strategic partnership, which of course includes the mercosur agenda.
member of the commission. madam president, i am grateful for the opportunity to discuss this very important topic. as has rightly been pointed out, the decision to establish a strategic partnership with brazil goes back to the commission’s first communication on brazil, where we proposed a way forward in our relations with brazil, and the first eu-brazil summit in lisbon has confirmed and cemented this new relationship. why a closer relationship with brazil? the eu-brazil strategic partnership is a natural reaction to geopolitical realities. today, brazil is becoming an international player with a strong weight on important global issues like climate change, the fight against poverty, peace, security and multilateralism. it is a respected voice in the developing world, as shown by its chairmanship of the g20 within the wto or as an active promoter of the south-south dialogue. it has forged new partnerships with all key players: china, russia and the united states. the european union has a lot to gain from a closer partnership with brazil in order to progress on global issues of common concern. the strategic partnership provides the appropriate framework, as experience has shown with all other members of the brics group. what effects will this partnership have on latin america and, more specifically, on the mercosur region? the promotion of regional integration is one of the cornerstones of the partnership. this is clearly stated in the commission’s communication, and it is also how brazil perceives it. president lula made this point very strongly at the first eu-brazil summit in july. i cannot stress enough the importance of the southern cone for the european union. besides sharing cultural and political values like democracy, human rights and social justice, there is a huge economic potential to explore between the two economically complementary regions. the eu is mercosur’s number one trade and investment partner. we have goods and services worth eur 50 billion crossing the ocean annually. in addition, the aggregate value of eu investments in the mercosur countries in 2005 was around eur 100 billion. also, and most importantly, we genuinely believe in the potential of an economically and politically integrated mercosur. the recent creation of the structural convergence fund and mercosur parliament are most encouraging signals. the eu is a firm supporter of this integration process, not just in words but also in concrete deeds. the european union has been and will continue to be the quasi-exclusive donor to mercosur integration. a sum of eur 50 million has been committed over the last five years and the same amount is available for the current financial perspective (2007-2013) to help build mercosur’s institutions, strengthen civil society and take economic integration forward. the conclusion of the eu-mercosur association agreement would be a colossal step forward in the integration process of the region. that is why the european union remains firmly committed to concluding the negotiations and is keen to advance in negotiations once there is more clarity in the doha development round. the strategic partnership with brazil is a decision in favour of brazil and in favour of mercosur. the two levels of relations – national and regional – will complement and mutually support each other. in no way does the partnership replace the biregional eu-mercosur negotiations. we are in full agreement with brazil that mercosur is and will remain the only platform for our bilateral economic and trade relations. i am convinced that by engaging with brazil, mercosur’s largest member, we can bring a real added value to the regional integration process. shared experience in a joint agenda with the eu will encourage brazil to better support mercosur efforts to build a common market and a political union.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the portuguese presidency and the commission for the necessary and pertinent comments in the light of the clear question put by the committee on international trade. brazil, as we all know, is a great country, an admirable country with enormous potential and at a crucial moment in its political development and its economic development. our mutual relations are intense and we can and must still strengthen them further. the special ties of brazil with portugal, or portugal with brazil, are also known or recognized and respected by all. we understand the position of our good and dear portuguese friends, their interests and concerns, because they are also ours. but the european union, the commission, the council and parliament have always been in favour of consolidating mercosur's regional integration, negotiating with the bloc and supporting, as far as possible, regional consolidation. brazil, as has been said here, undoubtedly has a key role to play. the commission's communication and the proposed strategic relationship with brazil are moving in that direction, so honey on a bed of roses. it would be tantamount to supporting the european parliament, which expressed itself here in the debate and vote on the report on the negotiations between the european union and mercosur, which i have the honour to be rapporteur for, and which was adopted a year ago, and to which i refer. it was therefore necessary, in view of the confusion which had arisen with this communication, that parliament should have the obligation to clarify this point and to keep us informed. we are also aware that the expectations of concluding an ambitious eu-mercosur agreement cannot be eternal, and if mercosur itself does not make progress in its integration and the negotiations between the european union and mercosur remain stalled, with or without the doha agreement, a decision would have to be taken on them and then operativeness would regain prominence: a bilateral agreement with brazil. but until that happens, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim is to reach an agreement with mercosur. in short, yes to brazil, but without prejudice to the negotiations with the mercosur as a whole.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, mercosur is a reality which owes much to the european union. the mercosur is essentially the result of the free and sovereign decision of its members, there is no doubt, of its four full members, soon five if, as we hope, the candidacy of venezuela does not encounter obstacles in the pending ratification. it is obvious that it is therefore the fruit of the members of the community. but it is also clear that, from its origins, since 1985, with the declaration at foz de iguazu and the treaty of asunción in 1991, the european union has been very close to what was then a creature and is today a real reality. very close supporting, very close sharing and very close defending the very existence of mercosur and of everything that mercosur proposed, because we knew that the regional relationship, from regional framework to regional framework, had many benefits for them and also for us. that is why the european parliament has always supported the maximum promotion of the association agreement between the european union and mercosur. the agreement is to be ambitious and balanced. an agreement which, in addition to its strictly commercial commercial dimension, also has an institutional political chapter, as well as a chapter aimed at promoting sustainable economic and social development. these are the values which the european parliament has always defended in relation to mercosur. and that is why the surprise of the members of this parliament who are concerned with foreign trade issues in the inta committee - which is being reflected in the various speeches - the surprise at the announcement of a bilateral strategic agreement with brazil. the regional framework has always seemed to us the most effective way of achieving these objectives and the real pillar on which to base our relations. it is obvious that brazil's growing role deserves not only respect, but even a real congratulation. president lula and his government are consolidating for his country a leading role that contributes greatly to the stability of the area and the progress of millions of people. and it is clear to everyone, as soon as we look at the figures, that brazil's weight in our trade relations with that beloved part of the world is and will be increasingly important. but a specific strategic relationship between the european union and brazil, as announced on 30 may, risks damaging regional relations between the european union and mercosur. we have heard the secretary of state and the commissioner try to reassure us about this, and we have received these explanations. but we ask that this house be kept informed in the framework of this negotiation, because we all understand that a specific strategic agreement with brazil is theoretically possible but that we would not wish for and would not support anything that would weaken the regional relationship.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i think it is clear that brazil, by its size, its population, its natural resources and, above all, its role on the international scene - i want to think of the role it is playing in reforming the united nations system, the role it is playing in the world trade organisation, the role it is playing in the whole issue of climate change or the debate on energy resources - fully justifies the communication presented by the commission in the sense of enjoying a strategic partnership between the european union and this great country that is brazil. and that strategic partnership, in my view, must be done on three levels: from a global perspective, from a regional perspective as well and from a bilateral perspective. but it is one thing to give brazil the treatment it rightly deserves as a great country and quite another for the european union not to continue to bet on the efforts it has been making to conclude the agreement between the european union and mercosur. i think that is not the intention of the commission in its communication; i think it is clear from that communication that the two hypotheses are perfectly compatible: on the one hand, the strategic dimension with brazil and, on the other, that determined commitment to the integration processes of which the european union is the most complete and the most obvious example. another thing is that this association agreement between the european union and mercosur is not being concluded on the terms we all want, and it is an agreement that has been delayed for too long. and the question is a legitimate one: how long will the european union wait to conclude this agreement? i believe that we must be committed to regional integration processes, and only in this perspective, only in this dimension, will we understand the advantages of union and integration.
the commission's vice-president mr olbrycht, the partnership can be expressed in the exchange of good practice, it can also be expressed, at the request of the cities, in a number of guidelines concerning, for example, the use of the city's central infrastructures, or the partnership can be expressed, for example, in somewhat harmonised information: from one city to another, sometimes from one member state to another, there are signs that show the motorway in a certain colour, in another city, in another member state, in another colour. there are harmonizations of information that can be imagined. so i believe that this partnership will take full account of the intentions of the regions and that we will find synergies to provide the means. mr stockmann, the structural funds are available for certain experimental actions. under my budget for transeuropean networks and, in general, the budget of dg tren, we have the means to support the experiments, particularly through civitas, which you know. it is true that we will also have to clarify a little more the use of the structural funds, which leads me to say that mr cramer's remark is justified and that in some cases we will have to pay more attention to the proper use of the structural funds. it is true that there is no percentage set by the european union for the use of funds: it is the cities and regions that choose. i believe that the effort we are going to make, through this green paper and through the debate, will be to convince the cities and regions to better target the use of funds. i think the example you gave is quite interesting.
mr president, i congratulate the commissioner on his political courage in tackling this issue and in proposing that subsidiarity is an opportunity. the committee on petitions is constantly hearing petitions from citizens at local level who are asking the european union for help and protection precisely to solve problems which can no longer be solved at local level because they are issues of global resolution, such as environmental issues, such as security problems, etc. i would like to ask the commissioner whether the intelligent systems take account of the issues of informing the citizens, which are elements that greatly reduce the stress on misinformation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. and also, what would be the ideas in relation to that rationalization of the division and distribution of goods that often generate such congestion problems.
the commission's vice-president at the moment, mr president, we are waiting for clarifications from the greek authorities on the verdicts of the arbitration panel. we have not been in contact recently with the greek authorities regarding a possible privatisation plan. the question is not whether the arbitration panel has done its job well, but whether the contractual relations on which it has based its decision are compatible with community law. i cannot say much more, mr papadimoulis, because, as you have very well indicated, i agreed earlier to a meeting with the new greek minister and i think we will have the opportunity to take stock with him. i can answer that in the present state of affairs, but we need more details from the greek authorities to make the necessary decisions.
the following is the report by mr paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european institute of technology (com (2006) 0604 - c6-0355/2006 - 2006/0197 (cod)).
on behalf of the green group, mr president, we are very sorry, but this project is not serious. once again europe wants to but cannot. the greens were in favour of the institute's project, but of a real project, and the proposals on the table are stale and incoherent. after the negotiations, the question of funding remains unresolved. the european proposal of eur 308 million is clearly insufficient and, moreover, is a figure much, much lower than what the european commission itself had proposed at the time according to its studies. so we are faced with an invitation to devour and weaken other european projects such as the seventh research framework programme. if the european commission really wants to create the institute, as we do, it will have to reopen the negotiations on the financial perspective and create a real budget, a comprehensive budget of more than two billion euros, which is what is needed. because, in the end, if we want to promote research and technology, we must not give the eurosceptics cannon fodder, as we are doing with this very inconsistent project. and there are problems with the content as well. we have removed the ceiling on administrative expenditure; we have required a ceiling on all projects, but we have removed it here. we've also eliminated one of the main issues of life in general - climate change - which was going to be one of the issues, of the first quid, has been eliminated. this is very shocking, very shocking. but in the end, we are faced with a project that obviously has no ambition, no money behind it and no coherent project, and this we deeply regret.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr paasilinna on his excellent work. it wasn't easy. a great effort has been made to design a viable institute, inspired by other models of excellence, but with the necessary adaptation to european complexity and diversity. the result today allows me to speak in favour of the eit, since it is a new and promising instrument for integrating the three axes of knowledge: education, research and innovation, and we hope that it will also represent added value over existing instruments. the eit must also be a focus of excellence, based on a model of integration of research institutions with business, which we hope will catalyse a much-needed culture of innovation to improve our competitiveness. the funding of the eti is still our big deal pending. i share the view that the initial funding and the governance structure of the institute should come from the community budget and that both public and private contributions from the member states should be used to develop those innovation and knowledge communities which are in line with the institute's priorities.
madam president, mr saryusz-wolski deserves our congratulations because his report clearly sets out the essential points which the union must take into account in order to establish a genuine common external energy policy: reciprocity with exporting countries, the need to coordinate our energy diplomacy better at european level and the importance of achieving an integrated and competitive internal market. in the field of external energy policy it is crucial to remember that a business which controls its market from generation to final sale, such as electricity, is not the same as another whose output depends on factors largely outside its control, such as gas. on the other hand, protectionism, which we condemn, should not be confused with protectionism, which is a prudent measure. we must re-focus the problem from the point of view of interdependence, since the union represents some 500 million consumers, which gives us considerable weight in the world market. however, we have repeated the mistake of not harmonizing diplomatic efforts at national and european level, which is weakening us economically and geopolitically. we must ensure that bilateral agreements between member states and third countries do not jeopardise the efforts made at european level. a number of member states depend on imports for more than 90% of their consumption, which means that we must maintain fluid and stable relations with the producing countries. but there are times when ties are weakened by unexpected events, often with negative consequences for trade between regions - what we are experiencing now in spain and what we saw in poland and other member states in the very recent past. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, first of all i welcome the decision of the european parliament to adopt, under the urgency procedure, the immediate suspension of the compulsory beard. i believe that the european consumer and farmers are the main victims of the dramatic rise in the price of agricultural raw materials. i think that the present situation should lead us to undertake a thorough reflection on the current direction of the common agricultural policy and we should ensure that the decisions taken in this area are effectively in line with the global context, in which demand from third countries is growing at a steady pace, due, above all, to the growth of consumption in countries such as india or china, which play a decisive role in the world economy. if this deficit situation continues, i think the european union should think about putting in place new mechanisms to avoid unsustainable increases in food prices. we have heard for years that the common agricultural policy is too costly for the european taxpayer, but i would like governments to explain to the public why they will now have to pay more for bread or milk. i would also like to ask the governments to explain what measures they are prepared to take to ensure a fair price for the consumer and to avoid an excessive burden on producers which puts the profitability of many farms at risk. the world needs more and more food and the exponential growth in consumption will not be solved by an increasingly greedy agricultural policy, which is more damaging to european producers. i think that the european leaders should think twice before putting the producers between a rock and a hard place. i believe that the european union should take advantage of the health check of the common agricultural policy to introduce mechanisms to prevent serious deficits in the future if we do not want other world producers to take over international markets.
madam president, it is true that cereal stocks have been reduced in recent years and we have already heard some short-term reasons: increased consumption in emerging countries, adverse climatic conditions in producing countries or production reserves for domestic consumption in exporting countries. we cannot forget the impact of certain speculative movements on the reference markets, such as paris or chicago. all these issues have contributed to record high prices. but according to the international grains council, the supply problem is compounded by a problem of stocks: world stocks, less than 17%, which according to the fao guarantee food security, and community stocks, practically exhausted in a market with prices above international prices. in my view, madam commissioner, we should reflect on the role played in this crisis by the disappearance of community market regulation instruments in the run-up to the medical check-up. the european union, obsessed with the costs of managing stocks and under pressure from the world trade organisation, has reoriented its agricultural policy towards restraining production and liberalising markets and has turned its back on producers and consumers, abandoning the fundamental principle of the cap: the guarantee of self-sufficiency.
madam president, thank you very much for giving me the floor. today we are celebrating the day of multilingualism, and i would like to express here the feeling of incomprehension that many citizens of the spanish state have when they feel discriminated against by the bureau of the european parliament, because catalan citizens, galician citizens and basque citizens like myself have not been allowed to speak in parliament in our languages. neither basque nor catalan nor galician, which are co-official languages in the spanish state, have been accepted by the bureau of parliament, unlike in the commission, the council and the committee of the regions, where the representatives of the citizens can express themselves in these co-official languages. madam president, ... (the speaker is speaking in basque).
the rapporteur. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, mrs gruber, ladies and gentlemen, in the era of globalisation, to imagine the future of europe and our societies without immigration is to be out of touch with reality. immigration is both necessary and positive for the demographic stability, economic growth and cultural diversity of the union. now, we need legal immigration of workers with rights and obligations, not slaves. the development and success of a legal immigration policy depends to a large extent on a firm fight against the other side of the coin, illegal immigration. the management and control of these illegal migration flows exceeds the capacity of individual member states to act and is undoubtedly the most delicate dimension of the overall and common immigration policy to be developed by the european union. recent economic and social imbalances, international conflicts and climate change will increase the flows of illegal migrants into the european union. they are faster than our political response and they will not stop on their own. we have to act now. we welcome and share the commission's approach. its role is essential in the development of a more coherent and effective policy by the member states based on full respect for human dignity and fundamental rights, based on solidarity, shared responsibility, transparency and mutual trust. first, we must achieve secure land, sea and air borders through integrated control and surveillance. in this sense, frontex and rabit are the way forward. the path of solidarity and shared responsibility. ladies and gentlemen, frontex is working. where he has carried out operations, lives have been saved and illegal immigration has decreased substantially. the flows of smugglers have had to find other routes, as has recently been the case in spain and italy. frontex is a newborn child of the union, which can only grow and fulfil its role with the support of its parents, the member states, who we ask to fulfil their commitments by making available the necessary human and logistical resources. it is also imperative to establish a european return policy, fully respecting human rights, as one of the deterrents and to promote the conclusion of readmission agreements with third countries. we are calling for the adoption of the return directive during the portuguese presidency. ladies and gentlemen, we need political will and courage to tackle the biggest attraction of illegal immigration: illegal employment. we must beat the mafia and the unscrupulous businessmen who exploit illegal immigrants. there are huge amounts of money and hidden interests at play that demand forceful and energetic action. we must, as you have said, mr vice-president, apply zero tolerance to irregular employment in order to reduce the underground economy that causes the so-called effect. the psychological dimension is obvious. if there are no opportunities to work illegally in the union, the incentive to emigrate to the union is reduced. we also call on the member states to take decisive and adequately resourced action against trafficking in human beings through judicial and police cooperation and to pay particular attention to the most vulnerable people - women and children - and to facilitate their access to health and education. external action requires dialogue and close cooperation with countries of origin and transit. we must continue the path we have opened up at the rabat and tripoli ministerial conferences and at the brussels world forum, emphasizing the link between immigration and development. we must make immigration a factor of development for both the countries of origin and the countries of destination, and through co-development we must jointly tackle the root causes of illegal immigration. it is also necessary to maximise the positive impact of remittances from migrants on the development of their respective countries and to explore the use of micro-credit. we must also ensure a coherent foreign policy that ensures that trade and development aid objectives are compatible so that the least developed countries can export their products and do not have to export their citizens. ladies and gentlemen, i would not like to conclude my speech without expressing my gratitude to all the rapporteurs with whom i have had close and positive cooperation, as reflected in the high level of consensus reached in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. ladies and gentlemen, let us not make a mistake, we must fight illegal immigration, tackle its causes and its channels, but we must not fight illegal immigrants, they are not criminals; emigration is not a crime. let's take a look at the populist and xenophobic rhetoric that associates immigration with insecurity, crime, terrorism or unemployment. he never emigrates on a whim, always by obligation. let's make it a personal choice instead of an obligation. (applause) i would like to thank
as rapporteur for the committee on culture and education, i have stressed the importance of addressing the social, educational and cultural aspects of immigration, which are so necessary to contribute to economic growth and social cohesion and to promote the integration of these populations and host societies, thus reducing mutual distrust. in the field of education, i have proposed developing policies to facilitate the access of immigrants to the education system and their integration into it, while recognising academic and professional qualifications acquired in third countries. in order to prevent the brain drain, we have highlighted the commission's proposal to promote ethical recruitment in those countries where the emigration of qualified staff may destabilise their socioeconomic situation. finally, i would like to stress the importance and responsibility of the media in conveying information, both in the countries of origin and in the host societies, in order to avoid giving a biased picture of the migration phenomenon.
mr president, yes, i did. secondly, i had trouble interpreting and, besides, if you'll allow me two seconds, i just want to say that... (the speaker speaks in basque) sorry, it was just to introduce these little words in basque on the day of languages, because, as has been said in this debate, we are not criminals, we just want to speak in our language.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work. immigration is not a new phenomenon - and we all know it - but what is new is that in recent years it has increased so much and that is because of the increasing poverty and the fact that more countries are falling into poverty. the main challenge today, therefore, is to control these migratory flows, to organise them according to real needs and to ensure greater integration of these people in the host countries, while at the same time strengthening our border surveillance, together with policies to allow repatriation to the countries of origin. above all, the fight against the human trafficking mafia. we agree that the human tragedies linked to illegal immigration must be stopped and addressed. border control would, however, be common to the member states. solidarity and shared responsibility must go hand in hand. now a few words about frontex. your work has been commendable. and i now turn to the council, which has just mentioned a long list of ships and helicopters. i wonder where they are. because just being on the list doesn't do any good. i think the council is also acting schizophrenically when it asks frontex to do more and at the same time cuts its budget by 2.5%, and this in the light of the fact that the appropriations for 2007 are already exhausted. despite frontex, we know, however, that the influx of immigration will continue no matter how much we put our will to order it. because what we are proposing is a will, not legislation, because the commission and the council have given up on a single directive on the legal conditions for entry into the union. it is as if all the desired people in tampere, whom we socialists defend so much, have moved on to a better life.
mr president, any debate on immigration should start from at least four pieces of evidence: people will continue to risk their lives to come through as many walls, fences or ships as we put up; people are not coming to spain, malta or italy, they are coming to europe; all the studies show that the immigrant population is necessary in the european union to guarantee the current level of the welfare state; and, finally, the abuse to which these people are often subjected by unscrupulous businessmen who take advantage of their vulnerable situation to exploit them remains highly worrying. if this is the case, and i repeat, this is evidence that has already been established, not prejudice or suspicion, then, i repeat, it is now time to develop a european policy of reasonable and intelligent permeability at our frontiers, since the impermeability of the frontiers does not help to govern the process and only adds drama to it. we must also adopt a responsible attitude in the field of reception, guaranteeing access to the right of asylum and refuge to immigrants as an individual treatment and offering realistic solutions.
mr president, a few thoughts and a few facts, a few. according to eurostat, 45% of foreigners who entered the european continent in 2006 stayed in spain. between 21 september and the early hours of 24 september, 595 sub-saharan migrants arrived on spanish beaches. since the beginning of the year, more than 11 000 immigrants have arrived in the canary islands alone, 9 000 since the launch of the hera mission on 23 april. despite the operations of frontex, hera, hermes, nautilus, poseidon and malta, the figures show that the human trafficking mafias have the means to circumvent our control mechanisms and open up new sea routes. the numerous arrivals on the coasts of the spanish levant in recent days are an example of this. or the more than 4 000 migrants from sri lanka and pakistan waiting to be transferred to the european continent from the beaches of guinea conakry. it is therefore necessary to give priority to missions to identify and arrest mafia members and to strengthen police and international cooperation by setting up joint investigation teams. frontex must maintain its missions permanently in crisis areas. it is essential that the council should give further impetus to the development of the european patrol network in order to extend the tasks of control and surveillance. the whole of the union must promote and encourage cooperation agreements and information campaigns, not only linguistic and professional ones; the countries of origin and transit must also be informed of the risks and deaths of immigrants. finally, immigration policies must be coordinated at european level in order to avoid permissive legislation and regularization processes that serve as a wake-up call. we must also promote a generous and humanitarian policy on asylum and the necessary international protection. i am sorry, mr president, but it is not appropriate to speak to the 20% solidarity council. frontex contributes 80% so that ships, planes, fuel can be chartered, everything except for the depreciation of the material. the council must therefore promote solidarity among the 20% and not use double language in a policy which affects the whole of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean is the most unequal frontier in the world. in economic and income terms, the tremendous difference between the two banks causes a flow that cannot be controlled by police means alone. in the summer of 2006 i had the opportunity to congratulate commissioner frattini because he and a group of spanish fishermen saved europe's honour by picking up a group of shipwrecked people, and then we witnessed a shameful market-making about what we were doing with them. but a year later, commissioner, are we better prepared to deal with this problem today? we are moving too slowly, at a pace incompatible with the gravity of the problem we face. this is a problem which we will not be able to solve without the development of the countries of origin. let's get this straight in our heads. we cannot solve the problem without developing the countries of origin, because although we need many immigrants, we cannot accommodate the entire surplus population of sub-saharan africa. and what is happening is the terrible combination of hunger on the one hand and satellite tv on the other. the empty bowl in the kitchen and the antenna full of illusions is the best push towards illegal immigration which we will only control by helping the development of the countries of origin and avoiding illegal work, which is the real so-called effect. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to welcome his holiness satguru baba ji and his delegation, who have taken their seats in the official gallery. his holiness is the spiritual leader of the sant nirankari mission, also known as the universal brotherhood. the mission is founded on the belief that true religion unites, never divides. his holiness is on a visit to europe and is presenting the mission's message on the one religion of humanity. your visit to parliament today and your meeting with president pöttering are part of his holiness's ongoing mission to build harmony and understanding between cultures and religions. we welcome you and wish you success. (applause) i would like to thank
anyway, mr. rack, for your peace of mind, the session has been resumed at 12 o'clock. it's now 12:04 so we're not that bad.
thank you, mr gargani. these mandates are therefore ratified. we wish your headlines success.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
the commission's vice-president mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mr duff, for his report, which is very rich in ideas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. however, i understand very well - and the commission supports them, for that matter - the motives behind some of the european parliament's amendments, in particular the need to increase the participation rates of citizens in the european elections, as well as the european character of the elections to the european parliament. this is linked to the question of the prohibition of double application, which is proposed to be abolished, or to the question of the abolition of the automatic accumulation of the loss of the right to apply. the commission is therefore in favour of a thorough reflection on these questions, if necessary by means of a study, and the european parliament will, of course, be involved in this reflection. these issues could also be discussed, if necessary, within the interinstitutional group on information, which is exploring all possibilities to make the communication on the 2009 european elections a little more effective.
mr corbett, we have here the proof that it was the group who asked for that, so everything is ok. i am sorry, but everything is ok! (laughter)
in writing. i think that the adoption of this report is a serious mistake and an exercise of little responsibility, and that is why i am voting against it. first of all, we must remember that there is no european electoral system. if it is established one day (and i would support it), the situation will be different. in the meantime, european elections must be held in accordance with the electoral system of each member state. the duff report proposes to abolish the ban on dual or multiple candidacies in elections to the european parliament. the same candidate could run in different states and after the elections he could choose which of the seats he wanted to keep. apart from the obvious complexity of its management, all this would be a clear fraud on the electorate. and it does nothing to add to the respectability of the parliament we are trying to build. the proposal voted today also abolishes the compulsory recognition of judicial decisions (civil and criminal) on the eligibility of candidates, making it possible for a person who has been disqualified by a court in the state of which he is a national to stand as a candidate in another state. this is contrary to european practice in the field of justice and home affairs. and it is easy to imagine the embarrassing situations that may result.
mr president, i applaud and congratulate my colleagues lilli gruber and javier moreno. in my situation as a temporary disabled person, i had to resort to an immigrant's contract of assistance and i have understood more, if possible, what mr lobo antunes was saying to us here today, that solidarity and humanity are necessary, but also the explanation given to us by mr frattini of an exquisite respect for legality. i have thought in my loneliness many times that don quixote, the great character, the greatest character in literature of all time, would not exist without sancho and today, sancho, without a doubt, would be an immigrant who would help. so i always respect the law, respect human beings.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the european parliament voted a resolution on this subject, the council of europe voted another text on this subject, clear and explicit in all its details, but for all of us who have some legal knowledge, we know, and it is not surprising to us - i say this with a certain irony - that there is a rule in law, especially in criminal law, which requires that no one is obliged to testify in his own cause. and that is what may surprise us: that the council and each of the governments are applying it to themselves. in the face of this cause, instead of acting, what they have decided is to remain silent, like the accused who does not defend himself but refuses to accept the accusations simply by remaining passive and silent. it is shameful to see the council as an institution, and all its members acting collectively, collectively taking over the rule used in the defence courts by the defendants. the institutional silence on responsibility, whether active or passive, whether by action or negligence, whether by conviction or by fear of creating problems in the face of pressure from an allied country, is one of the shameful aspects of our present democratic environment and involves all those who play a leading role in it. it is also clear that it is difficult to apply accountability mechanisms in the european union, because accountability mechanisms are not designed to be operated against all the states acting to protect each other. when the treaty was drawn up, when articles 6 and 7 were drawn up, no one thought that we would find ourselves in a day when we were not talking about the violation of fundamental rights or the passivity in the defence of fundamental rights by a government but by a european institution: the council as such, by remaining complicit and passive, and the complicity of all the states. that situation was not foreseen and, it is true, it is your protection. we have no legal mechanisms to enable us to act in this respect. but history will set things right, mr president of the council, because history will always bring to light the shame of this period when, under the pretext of protecting our freedom, everything on which this european union was founded has been put at risk.
mr president, i have the impression, listening to the council and some of our colleagues, that we are still in january 2006, as if nothing had happened since then. and yet, we have had a commission of inquiry, we have had several reports and we have had the most important thing, the acknowledgement by the american president that these practices have taken place. what more do governments and the council need to do to give a credible answer to the citizens and to gain some prestige and credibility on this issue? clearly, there is a stark gap between practice and preaching on this subject. we are asking for rigor - and i agree - but precisely rigor is based on facts and evidence, facts which have been proved time and again and for which we want to know not only who is responsible but also how far that responsibility goes. i therefore ask mr lobo antunes very directly: what are you waiting for when you demand that the european governments and the american government itself stop doing what we have so often denounced? what do you expect to regain the prestige and credibility that the council and the european union as a whole are losing day by day?
acting president of the council. i would like to make a brief comment on the proposal to send an esdp force to chad and the central african republic, which has the support of a large majority of the members who have spoken on this subject. you will also know - it has already been mentioned here - that, however, i assume that just yesterday the security council gave the european union authorization to launch this operation, a requirement which, as i have said, was essential for the european union to be able to carry out the operation. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that it will do so in due course. i believe that by committing itself to this process, the european union is, as it should be, moving beyond mere declarations of intent, beyond mere promises, and is in fact moving towards action, towards action, towards what the european union always says is, and should be, its commitment to africa and to africans in particular. to help africa and to help africans in a close and whole partnership so that they achieve peace where there is conflict, progress where there is poverty, health and education where there are pandemics, something where there is nothing or very little. i think we are also respecting our values and principles in foreign policy, and so the presidency naturally welcomes these latest developments and naturally also takes note of what is clearly in this debate the strong support of many members for this operation.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate and our discussion are of course very topical and, of course, the council and the presidency are following developments in burma (myanmar) with great and deep concern. it has been almost 20 years since the events of 1988 that that country has not been the scene of the demonstrations we are witnessing at this moment and it is undoubtedly true what many commentators say about these latest events: the country is at a crossroads that we consider critical. the situation has been very volatile from the start and although we have made every effort to prevent the burmese authorities from resorting to violence, today's events show that, very regrettably, the military junta in rangoon has remained deaf to the appeals of the international community, as it has, moreover, remained deaf to the repeated and constant international appeals over the last few years. if handled well, the situation of the past few days would have been an unprecedented opportunity to take the first steps towards urgent political reform and national reconsideration of the country. we hoped the junta would understand the unequivocal signal sent by the protesters that their policies had failed. what began as an ad hoc protest against the disproportionate increase in fuel prices became a broad public protest movement against the general policy of a highly dictatorial government. the union is aware of the growing tension in the country and has not simply observed the situation. in august, he strongly condemned the arrest of several opposition leaders, including the so-called 'generation 88' group, who were protesting against the increase of fuel prices by some 500%. it called for the release of all political prisoners and stressed the need to launch a process of openness, reconciliation and political reform. just yesterday we sent a clear signal of solidarity and support to the burmese people through the european union declaration adopted by the 27 foreign ministers in new york, where they are meeting. we appealed to the authorities to respect the right to peaceful demonstration of both monks and nuns and ordinary citizens, stressing that a new opportunity was opening up to try to solve the most complex problems in burma (myanmar). in a further statement, also issued yesterday, high representative xavier solana called on the burmese authorities to continue to show restraint and stressed that genuine peace, stability and development can only be achieved through political reforms, the granting of fundamental rights and freedoms and the full participation of all stakeholders. we have also raised the situation with some of our partners in bilateral talks on the sidelines of the united nations general assembly in new york. in our dialogue on burma (myanmar) with partners in the region, including china, india, and asean countries, we have encouraged them to engage regularly with the regime, with a particular focus on the following: first, the long-term stability of burma (myanmar) requires genuine transformation, especially political transformation; second, the opening up of the country is crucial to burma's development and is also in the interest of its neighbours and the international community as a whole. we also noted that singapore, the current chairman of asean, responded with at least one national statement expressing hope that the current protests would be resolved peacefully. the european union's foreign ministers have already discussed the developments in burma (myanmar) at the gimnich meeting in early september and yesterday in new york, at the meeting of the 27, they also addressed this issue as i have already mentioned. in addition, the matter was discussed in the political and security committee in brussels and was discussed in more detail this morning in the asia-oceania group. we are obviously looking at all the possible options for a new reaction from the european union and although we hope that the situation will not deteriorate further we must be prepared for all eventualities. we are also preparing further action through diplomatic channels and will continue to be in touch with the united nations, in particular with imbraim gambari, the special envoy of the secretary-general who met with the presidency and the institutions of the european union in july, that is, just before the holidays, just before the summer holidays. we are also in close contact with our colleagues in geneva, and yesterday a strong statement was made in the human rights council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i would like to ask the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to take. finally, tomorrow coreper will again discuss this question of burma in detail.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission, like the other european institutions, is obviously very concerned about the situation in burma/myanmar. we are following very closely the dramatic events of the last few weeks, and even the last few hours, following the movement of resistance and peaceful protest launched by the buddhist monks. as you know, the commission, through mrs reding, gave you its analysis of the general situation on 6 september: repeated violations of human rights, political repression, general deterioration of economic conditions. i would also add the violations of international humanitarian law committed against civilians and detainees by the government of burma/myanmar, and the increasingly severe restrictions imposed on the icrc in the exercise of its work. in recent weeks, the regime has been reaping the bitter fruits of the explosive social and political situation that it has, in a way, created itself. what is the appropriate response to this situation? it is right to think that either the situation has the air of déjà vu, heralding a repetition of the violent repression of 1988, or that this is a historic turning point. however, events in myanmar/burma seem to be heading towards unpredictable developments. the fact that protests of such a scale - 100,000 demonstrators on the streets of rangoon last monday - have no stated political agenda or demands obviously makes the situation more unstable and precarious. the risk of a regime slip-up cannot be ruled out if the protests continue. the threats, arrests and blockades that we are witnessing today are undeniable evidence of a hardening of the reaction. the arrests this morning, the brutal manner in which the authorities have intervened and the fact that there are victims to be mourned for can only increase our concern. in these circumstances, our first demand is to avoid a violent reaction on the part of the government and to urge the utmost restraint. the security and fate of aung san suu kyi are obviously at the heart of our concerns. these events are also, in a way, an opportunity. they show the regime, or at least its members who still have a perception of reality, that political and economic mismanagement has made the population no longer afraid to take to the streets to express their anger, driven by a despair that has lasted too long. the second concern of the commission is therefore to persuade the international community to persuade the government to take the necessary steps to restore a minimum of confidence and thus create the conditions for opening the way to national reconciliation. the regime must listen to the people's aspirations for openness and democracy. the way out of the current crisis must, of course, include a participatory and transparent process, allowing all parties interested in burma/myanmar's national reconciliation to contribute fully to its political and economic future. my colleague, benita ferrero-waldner, on the sidelines of the un general assembly in new york, conveyed this message to the partner countries. it is also vital to make the neighbours of burma/myanmar aware of their special responsibilities. i think china is already realizing that its own long-term interests are not served by an explosive situation in the country. china can have a decisive influence. however, we must also persuade india, japan and south korea, which have made a major contribution to meeting the economic needs of the regime, to do more to get out of the current crisis. it is also necessary to encourage asean to make its voice heard more strongly. any deterioration of the situation in myanmar/burma can only have negative consequences for the whole region. finally, the commission welcomes the very special role of the united nations and, more specifically, the good offices of the special envoy, mr ibrahim gambari, whose forthcoming visit to rangoon will be of the greatest importance. if the myanmar authorities choose the path of repression again, the inevitable consequence will be to plunge the country into even greater international isolation, with more intolerable suffering for its people. otherwise, if the authorities choose the path of open and democratic dialogue, they must then clarify their national roadmap, commit to fixing a precise date for free elections and start a sincere dialogue with the partners. the myanmar authorities could then count on the support of the european union and other partners in this process.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, it is clear that the latest developments in burma are putting us increasingly at a point of no return. i believe that the mass demonstrations, not only of monks and nuns, but of thousands and thousands of people who have been supporting and who continue to support these demonstrations have been a clear message to the burmese military junta, but also to the world, that there is a weariness, a tiredness of the situation and a will for change in that country. and it is precisely this will for change that we in the european union and the international community in general must support. it is clear that after 30 years of sanctions with little result, policy must be reversed. and international policy, in that sense, must involve the countries of the region, not just china and india as has been said, but also japan and singapore, the current chairman of asean. and that is why we must celebrate not only the gestures made by the council and the commission, but also the gestures being made within the united nations to send a strong message of liberation to the political opposition, especially aung san suu kyi, and above all a step towards democracy which i hope we cannot and must not renounce at this moment.
acting president of the council. i cannot anticipate what the council will decide on the issues on the table, in particular the financing. of course this question will have to be discussed in the council, as will the other questions contained in the commission's latest proposals. what i can assure the honourable member of are two things: firstly, that the presidency understands that the question of the galileo project is a strategic project for the european union, and therefore the presidency will deal with this dossier from that perspective, a strategic perspective of strategic interest to the european union of this project. secondly, that the presidency will do everything possible to ensure that we can reach a conclusion on the main aspects of the galileo project during the portuguese presidency.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i too share the view that galileo is a priority and urgent project for the european union, but farmers are very worried because the commission has proposed the use of surplus funds from the community's agricultural policy to finance this galileo project, and as far as 2007 is concerned, it seems that there are indeed surpluses, but they are worried about the future. the question i would like to ask the council is: do the various governments, the 27 governments, share the view that this is a priority project and that funds need to be used, either by extraordinary contributions or by using the surpluses that come up every year in the community budget?
acting president of the council. i wish to comment because the honourable member has taken a line from what i said which was not exactly what i said. what i said was that there is no decision on kazakhstan's candidacy and that a decision on kazakhstan's candidacy will take into account, at the appropriate time, kazakhstan's fulfillment of the conditions i have mentioned. that analysis, that debate will be made at the right time and place.
acting president of the council. thank you very much. mr president, mr president-in-office, i would like to thank the honourable member on behalf of the council for his question on the question of the bluefin tuna recovery plan. that plan was drawn up in accordance with the advice of iccat scientists, who recommended that immediate and strong action be taken to prevent the current collapse of bluefin tuna stocks in the mediterranean and eastern atlantic. the iccat adopted the recommendation for the adoption of a 15-year recovery plan at its annual meeting in dubrovnik in november 2006, and the european community, as a member of icat, assumed the international obligation to transpose that recovery plan into community law. in commercial terms, the consequences of failure to comply fully with this obligation would be serious for the position of the european community on asian markets. this obligation was fulfilled for 2007 by the adoption of council regulation (ec) no 643/2007 amending the regulation on tacs and quotas. the council, on the basis of a commission proposal, is currently examining the necessary regulations to allow the plan to be applied on a permanent basis for a further 14 years from 1 january 2008. the rules apply to the various zones in different ways, in order to reflect the respective differences in fisheries types, activity levels and stock situation. it should be noted that these fisheries vary between high-tech industrial fishing and traditional non-industrial fishing. the iccat teams have determined the plan on the basis of scientific advice which draws certain distinctions between the mediterranean and the eastern atlantic. the council is therefore of the opinion that iccat has sought to follow this scientific development while differentiating the elements of the recovery plan to mitigate its socio-economic consequences. the council is fully aware that this important recovery plan has socioeconomic consequences for the fishing communities concerned. these consequences would also be felt in the event of a further collapse of bluefin tuna stocks. during the negotiations leading to the adoption of council regulation (ec) no 643/2007, the council and the commission agreed to introduce a provision for the recovery plan to be recognised as such by the european fisheries fund, which will allow member states to use part of their resources from the fund to help mitigate the economic consequences on the affected fishing communities. this provision is intended to remain in force until 31 december 2014.
self-supporting. mr president, i now speak on behalf of mr navarro and i would like to ask a question, a question of censure, on my own behalf. the question i ask on behalf of mr navarro is this. article 23 (4) of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 establishing the bluefin tuna recovery plan allows for the deduction from future fishing opportunities of any excesses by a member state over the quota for one year. and what i ask the council is: what will happen to those who have caught less than their quota this year because the fishery was closed by the commission last week?
mr president, with your permission and thanking you for your kindness, i would also like to ask the presidency of the council how regulation 2371 can be applied if the member states have not cooperated with the commission and sent it the required mandatory documentation on the catches made in this season, in this annual campaign.
acting president of the council. the honourable member is asking me a very specific and detailed question and i will try to answer it as best i can and i think very sincerely that the first question has been put directly to the commission and is much better formulated. i think the commission is certainly in a better position than the council to give you the clarification you want. as regards your second question, that is the alleged lack of cooperation between the member states and the commission, of course, if that is the case, the commission itself must of course analyse the situation and see how best it can, let us say, in some way, compel the member states to comply with what they may have established themselves. i would also like to point out that the commission is not the only one to have to deal with this problem.
acting president of the council. i think that this is also a question which would be better addressed to the commission rather than to the council, since the commission naturally has a primary, fundamental and top role in this matter. and i can say, mr president, as i have already said, that environmental issues, and especially those relating to climate change, are on the agenda of the presidency and on the agenda of the council as a priority issue. we have a big challenge ahead of us from bali, already at the end of this year, and then the whole process which we hope can be completed in 2009 on new targets for co2 emissions.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i too would like to refer to this question of bluefin tuna and, in particular, to the closure of the fisheries decreed by the commission in recent days because the quota allocated to the european union has been exceeded. the information provided by the commission shows that, at the time of the closure of the fisheries, some member states, including spain and portugal, would not have caught their quota, while others, however, such as france and italy, would have exceeded it or even doubled it, placing the european union in a situation of infringement of international rules, at least. my question to the council is: what measures can the council take to compensate those states which have not exhausted their catches by deducting from those which have overfished? can the council do that? and another question: what is the council going to do? what measures will you take to ensure that a situation like this does not happen again?
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the commission has identified three key areas for exploiting the potential of digital technology: online accessibility, the digitisation of analogue collections and the preservation and storage of digital content, we know that. as regards digitalisation, it is well known that the commission, in its recommendation of august last year, asked the member states to coordinate their efforts to achieve synergy at european level. the council unanimously supported this recommendation, but i would like to take this opportunity - it is a pity the council is not here - to ask the commission about the real progress made by the states in this area, on the one hand, and on the other, to see whether sufficient consideration has been given to those non-state governments which - as we know - in most decentralized countries have competence in the field of culture. on the other hand, online accessibility is another axis, as i have already pointed out. we all agree that a multilingual interface and content must be ensured. it is a joy to go to the website of the digital library and see that, in addition to the 23 official languages, there are icelandic or serbian. today we are celebrating the european day of languages, which you, mrs reding, were one of the main promoters of. on the other hand, you have also very rightly said, on countless occasions, commissioner, that there are no great or small languages, but that they are all part of the european cultural wealth. that is why i would like to see some reference, more than reference, content, in the digital library to those languages, like mine, that are not official in the european union.
madam president, the review of the lisbon objectives we carried out in 2005 brought back to the table the importance of placing education and training for people at the heart of the union's strategy for the coming years. it is clear - and eurostat data show this - that we are a long way from the ambitious goals we have set for higher education for 2015: investment in r & d, modernisation of universities, reduction of the failure rate and early school leaving, increase in adult participation in lifelong learning and increase in the population with completed secondary education. this lag distances us from our partners worldwide - the united states, india or japan - and to this must be added the great disparity in situations between european countries. advancing the efficiency and effectiveness of our member states' education systems is not only important in terms of international competitiveness or economic growth but is also essential for advancing the social cohesion of our societies. investing in pre-school, primary and secondary education is essential to minimise the risk of social exclusion and to ensure higher employment rates and better wages. the financial resources for education, both public and private, must be increased and the need to move forward in the bologna and copenhagen processes must be seriously considered by the states. it is also necessary to adapt university studies to the increasingly heterogeneous economic and social needs of our societies, without forgetting that education is also the basis for forming free citizens who are able to participate actively in society. finally, it is urgent to update and improve vocational training teaching and adapt it to the new challenges posed by the extension of the working life of our citizens, which increases socioeconomic and educational expectations in adults, all without forgetting - at all levels of education - training for non-discrimination on grounds of gender.
author. madam president, first of all i would like to apologize for the absence of mrs zita gurmai, the undersigned of this oral question by the socialist group, who is unable to be present at this plenary session for reasons of force majeure, and so, with your permission, madam president, i will speak on behalf of mrs gurmai and on my own behalf, as i too have asked to speak. i want to insist, madam president. we're talking about learning disorders that affect a significant portion of our population. in europe, about 10% of children suffer from disorders. children who are often invisible to our education systems, who too often attribute their failure in school to causes that usually have nothing to do with them. the necessary measures must be taken to avoid this discrimination, and the children concerned must be provided with special, early, intensive and multidisciplinary treatment, preferably in their usual school environment. to do this, detection and response protocols are needed in educational institutions. in my country, spain, for the first time, under a socialist government, an education law has been passed to protect pupils with specific learning difficulties. it is an important step, since it is the most common practice in our countries that families still depend on the goodwill of teachers and that teachers voluntarily strive to have adequate training. other solutions are costly and often impossible to tackle. you have to keep in mind that boys and girls with these disorders are smart, they just need a different way of learning. and school success is possible. all that is needed is the political will to put in place the appropriate mechanisms to provide real solutions. making them visible to society means having reliable statistics to enable us to take the right decisions; it means making clear and truthful information available to all those who ask for it and launching awareness campaigns that reach all our countries. and making them visible to our education systems means that, in addition to providing early treatment to all affected children in the early stages of schooling, we must take their needs into account in the curriculum design of each and every stage of education. certain universities are already doing exams and tests adapted to university students with this type of problem. community-funded educational programmes, such as e-learning or lifelong learning, should also be designed with people with disabilities in mind. ladies and gentlemen, we must meet the needs of this sector of the population. we cannot continue to turn our backs on a disorder which affects more than three million europeans.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating the people and colleagues who have initiated this initiative of the written statement and the oral question, and the commission, for being here at this hour to speak on this subject which, unfortunately, seems not only to be a secret subject, a subject of absolute discretion, but which, in some cases, is directly invisible. so even though this is the case, the fact that we are dealing with it today means that we want to break that invisibility, and that is why i have enthusiastically joined, i repeat, not only the written statement and the oral question, but this debate. i think that, more or less, we know people who have suffered and who are suffering from these disorders, not disease. and so, from that point of view, the perception that we all have in this context is that it is not at all about people, say, who need a special service from the point of view of a disease's own care, but simply supports, concrete supports, aids, a sensitivity that we have to have not only from the institutions but from the families, from the educational institutions, and, above all, from society in general. i think the worst thing that can happen in such cases is that discrimination is due to ignorance in the first place, to a perception that these people cannot be people who lead a completely normal life, even if they need a little support, and, above all, to an absence of political will and of economic resources to carry out the necessary programmes so that these people can have, i insist, not only a normal life rhythm, but also contribute, as people who are fully capable, their wisdom, their knowledge, their illusions, their dreams, to this society which often marginalizes them, discriminates against them, without them and without them having done anything to deserve it.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, after congratulating the rapporteur on her good report, i would also like to highlight, first of all, the good synchronisation that has continued to mark the joint work of all the european institutions during 2007 in relation to equality policies and to highlight and welcome the high level of commitment of our institutions to gender equality, as highlighted by the european pact for gender equality adopted by the european council and the roadmap for equality between men and women which is in force until 2010. as regards the indicators in the report and in relation to the report of the previous year, it is regrettable, as the report does and as mrs sartori has just mentioned, that there has been no significant positive development towards real equality of pay for equal work. the gender pay gap in the european union remains at 15%; closing this gap requires further effort in the coming years. the report also highlights the positive impact of the employment situation, with 6 out of 8 million jobs created in the european union since 2000 being held by women, although this employment rate is very different depending on age, which should also be corrected. a very important point to be made in the report is the importance of equality policies in addressing the demographic challenge facing europe. it is a fact that those member states which have adopted policies of work-life balance for women and men have higher birth rates, a higher percentage of women in the labour market and higher employment rates. i would also like to stress with concern that the groups most at risk of exclusion and poverty are still elderly women and single mothers. finally, i would like to point out, as the report does, that it would be interesting and very useful if, in future mandatory annual reports on equality between men and women, data on the candidate countries were also included so that they could be used during the negotiations.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, there are certainly many points i would like to make about this report, for which i congratulate the rapporteur, but i will concentrate on the two which i think are the most relevant. firstly, i would like to welcome the fact that the commission's report for 2007 focuses on employment issues such as the pay gap, reconciliation and the directives on equal treatment, given that women's economic independence is one of the priorities of the gender equality work plan. in this respect it is true - and the commission report points out this - that six of the eight million jobs created in the european union since 2000 are held by women; and this would certainly be a positive figure if it were not for the fact that it is clouded by the fact that most of the new jobs held by women are part-time, many of them precarious and insecure, poorly paid and with little prospect of wage developments. the report also notes that there has been no significant change in the gender pay gap, which is of course a concern when women's pay is on average 15% lower than men's, in some countries as high as 30%. the second significant aspect i would like to highlight concerns a particular sector of women, those working in agriculture. in particular, it is called upon to improve the legal situation of women in the agricultural sector, both in terms of social security, guaranteeing their direct access, and their role in agricultural holdings, with particular emphasis on the co-ownership of family holdings, access to credit and their inheritance rights. both these aspects should be given special attention by the commission and, more specifically, redoubled efforts to promote greater equality between men and women in terms of treatment and opportunities.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, the commission very much shares the concerns expressed by most of the speakers. some speakers, several speakers, almost all speakers are asking what the commission is doing. the commission, as you know, has the task of monitoring the transposition and application of community law on gender equality. this essentially consists of launching and managing infringement procedures when it finds that a member state has not correctly transposed one of the directives or when it receives a citizen's complaint revealing a wrong transposition or application of one of the directives. for example, in relation to infringement procedures under the gender equality directive, eighteen letters were sent in april 2007. the commission is currently examining the replies and a decision on the reasoned opinion is expected in december. so, quickly, some more specific, more concrete questions. as regards the establishment of the european institute for gender equality in vilnius, there was a management board meeting in october and the recruitment of the director is underway. as regards the gender pay gap initiatives, many speakers have rightly emphasised the gender pay gap. the answer to this question is explained in the communication. the commission will analyse the current legislation in 2008 to see if it is adequate and what changes are needed. as regards the question of women in rural areas, selfemployed women working in agriculture are already covered by directive 86/613/eec. the commission has just started an analysis of this legislation to see if it is effective and what needs to be changed. finally, a question of a more ideological nature, but one to which i would like to respond, which relates to flexicurity. the aim of flexicurity is to increase the flexibility of the labour market, not to increase insecurity, and at the same time to create more choice in the market by giving workers more ways of adapting, for example, through training, through reconciling private and professional life.
mr. michel, please accept my apology. this is a system that is being tried to change by reforming the way parliament works. it is indecent to have a debate where - i am thinking not only of the commissioner but also, in particular, of the colleagues who have followed the debate - we get into such a fuss just before the votes. i apologize, commissioner. i was just trying to help.
the debate is closed. i apologize to those who have spoken and to those who have had to be cut off because the time allocated is not really reasonable. there should be no one-minute interventions in our work, in which we can really contribute nothing. but this question is also part of the debate on the reform of the way parliament functions, which we shall have to answer shortly. the vote will take place shortly. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the european parliament's representatives speak different languages, belong to different groups, but we are united in the same will, which is to move the european union forward by achieving the treaty of lisbon, a treaty in which legislative co-decision, the union's unique personality, progress in the communityisation of home affairs and justice policy, also foreign policy, the participation of national parliaments are all there. we want more democracy and more efficiency. we regret that there is no more transparency, but that is part of the method of the intergovernmental conference. i have to say that the jurists - particularly those in parliament - have managed to get us to interpret the hieroglyph into which this exercise has become in a positive way. and i am writing to the president-in-office of the council to confirm to parliament what i understand to be a very clear commitment, namely that citizenship, which had been very unfairly relegated to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, has returned to the treaty on european union in the form it had since the maastricht treaty. it is fundamental for us as representatives of the citizens. i have to admit that, in an unusual gesture of political clarity, the president of the council himself told us that this seemed impossible, but it has been achieved: the first major achievement. secondly, the charter of fundamental rights, which is the hallmark of european citizens. it is no longer a declaration - number 11 - nor is it a protocol: it is the charter, and we shall vote on it here, next month, solemnly, with the presidents of the three community institutions, before we begin the ratification process. and the charter will be legally binding, and i say this because i think it is important that it should be recorded in the minutes today, because i understand that for the european parliament these are absolutely essential conditions, sine qua non conditions for supporting this treaty. there are also other areas where we believe we can make progress. my colleague elmar brok has mentioned the issue of data protection, which is a sensitive issue if there is one. there are some others that are very important to us. one of them is the dialogue between the social partners - unfairly relegated to the treaty of functioning - and another important issue in which we believe that we are helping to solve trust problems with our support is to give security through a declaration, like that of ioannina, which exists and is already there, but which should not go further. we do not think that in a treaty on a union which operates by majority and qualified majority, it makes sense to introduce elements of unanimity which would break that process completely. i mentioned in viana do castelo - the president will remember this - that the atomic bomb makes sense to have when it is not being used. if it's used, it destroys everything. and i think that's an important warning. and, mr president, there is a more important point for parliament, and i think i am speaking at this moment on behalf of the majority of parliament, of the majority of the member states, and very clearly, those who ratified the constitutional treaty, that we have made the sacrifice of doing without it in order to achieve unanimity, and that is that on this occasion it is very important that we all work together in mutual loyalty and solidarity to achieve ratification. otherwise, we would indeed be in very difficult circumstances. i think we all have to be true to the commitment we've made. thank you very much, mr. president.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the very significant support of the members of the european parliament for the efforts and work of the portuguese presidency in the framework of the intergovernmental conference leading to the adoption, we hope, of a new treaty for our union. and to those who have also expressed a minor degree of agreement or even disagreement, i would like to say that as the presidency we have not failed, as is our duty, to take note of these concerns and criticisms, because we understand that they are all also a contribution to our work and our efforts and must naturally also be the subject of our reflection. i assume it was mr graham watson who said here that the prime minister of portugal should be preparing his army to fight the battle of the intergovernmental conference on 18-19 october. it is an image, and i will say that of this army i am a soldier who is here waiting for many other soldiers who are here to join our army so that in lisbon we can actually have a new treaty for the european union. the intergovernmental conference at the level of jurists and experts has completed its work. it is now the politicians' turn to speak their justice and i am sure that politicians and governments will be able to live up to their responsibilities. it has been said here that we cannot fail and the portuguese presidency fully endorses that statement. we cannot fail and we will build an agreement that will have, i am sure, and could not be otherwise, the support of all. we'll be attentive to everyone's sensitivities, interests, concerns. we will not exclude anyone and on this basis, as i say, we are confident in the sense of the need to close a debate that has perhaps been present for too long and also in the sense of the urgency of creating a spirit of construction, of unity, of positivity in order to deal with the many other problems that we have to face in the future and that have been mentioned here, climate change, energy issues, immigration issues, issues of our own internal reforms that we need to carry out in order to deal with the more general problems of globalisation. i am sure that this sense of urgency in concluding a treaty, so that the spirit will lead us to win other battles, will be present in lisbon and that when we come back here, at the next plenary session, we will come here to give you the good news, to give you the good news. i would like to thank once again the support of the representatives of the european parliament for our group of jurists and i am sure that this support will continue in the subsequent phases, as has been amply mentioned here. i would also like to say a few words on the lisbon strategy and to thank mr joão de deus pinheiro for his speech. we are going to introduce a new element into this debate on the lisbon strategy and this has to do with the external dimension of the lisbon strategy. and it has to do, fundamentally, with the need to regulate, to regulate what is unregulated, what is unregulated, to do good, so that indeed, progress, social stability, economic stability, peace is made in a regulated, regulated world, where everyone can know well the rules and norms by which everyone should, say, manage, so that indeed, the world we are building is a fairer world for everyone. as i said, i'll be here with the presidency. i know that my prime minister intends to come here too, i will be with him in the next plenary session, we are confident to announce to you that the european union has a new treaty: the reform treaty!
vice-president of the commission. mr president, thank you for this interesting debate. you always learn a lot of new things and i can, of course, promise that i will report back to the commission. i have taken careful notes so that we can follow up also at the meeting that will take place in luxembourg next monday. i have heard three direct questions that i would like to respond to as well as i can. the first one alludes to parliament’s involvement in the procedure of appointing the first high representative. the treaty here reproduces the 2004 text. i am sure that everybody will want to find a pragmatic political solution that can satisfy all sides when this moment comes. you may remember, of course, the precedent of commissioners appointed after recent enlargements. there, too, parliament got satisfaction in practice, although the legal texts were not clear. i think it is in our interest to make sure that there is a satisfactory role for parliament in this whole procedure. the second question had to do with article 24 of the treaty, on protection of personal data in the field of security. here, at least, i can respond for the commission, which understands parliament’s concerns on provisions relating to the transmission of confidential data by the member states. as it stands now, article 24 of the eu treaty allows the council alone to define the rules in this field, with no possibility of involvement of the european parliament. this new provision, of course, stems from the igc mandate. it applies to member states only, whilst the european institutions remain subject to the general regime, and the foreseen procedure complies with the very specific regime that exists on the common foreign and security policy. here, it means that the competence of the court is restricted. i am afraid that there is little margin to change the substance agreed in the mandate, but, in any event, i want to reassure you that we do not read this article as covering, for example, the eu agreement with the united states on passenger name records. that agreement currently has a third-pillar legal base and, therefore, in the commission’s view, it will therefore be covered by the normal competence of the ep and the court in the future. so this is how the commission sees those issues. i am seated so that i can actually watch all our visitors. i am not sure that we can always explain very clearly what we are discussing here, but i am sure that the visitors have felt the type of frustration that comes from this debate and the fact that some are very happy with this, they say it is a good compromise; others are not pleased at all and say that this is not good enough; others say that we are going too far. of course, it reflects the political situation and the difficult political game that comes after a long period of actually having discussed how we can adapt our decision-making procedures to enlarge the european union of 27 member states; how we can actually incorporate also the new issues that have emerged lately, like climate change and energy; how we can be more open and effective. all the visitors also remind me that, whatever the outcome – and we think and hope, with the help of the portuguese presidency, that we will have a good outcome, that we will be able to agree a new reform treaty – we will have to communicate; we will have to engage with citizens to try to do our best to explain. i hope that the commission and the european parliament will be able to plan also the communication activities together by making sure that we also provide a text which is as accessible and readable as possible; that we can create a debate which is european, so that you can, hopefully, follow the debate in other member states as well – and with a political commitment from all of us, all the institutions, to engage with citizens: to explain, to advocate and also to listen. this is our role from now on. this is only the beginning. we also have the ratification and the implementation awaiting us. but, for me and the commission, we believe that this is a good reform treaty – not a perfect one: it is, of course, a compromise; we would have wanted no opt-outs but really good support for what is in there on the charter of fundamental rights especially, but we have a compromise, we have an agreement between all the member states – and now we will make the best of it. (applause)
this closes this spot. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by alain lamassoure and adrian severin, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the composition of the european parliament (a6-0351/2007).
madam president, i understand the difficulty of the task and i acknowledge and commend the work of the rapporteurs. however, at some point the proposal for the distribution of seats seems to me to be lacking in a certain degree of discretion and, moreover, does not take sufficient account of the necessary institutional balance inherited from the existing treaty of nice. that is why some members of the european parliament have signed amendments which will be tabled in the plenary tomorrow and which - i would like to stress this - fully respect the principle of degressive proportionality; and furthermore, in our view, they make the allocation of seats for the future objective, by linking it to clear and transparent criteria. one of them - the one i wanted to focus on - which would come into force at the next elections in 2009 coincides with one of the studies - the most prudent - drawn up by the spanish government and sent to parliament and the council. as you will understand, i am not suspected of supporting the proposals of the present spanish government for partisan reasons, but the fact is that in this case the demographic factor is more taken into account, which should be considered essential in shaping the institution which represents precisely the interests of the citizens. i therefore ask the rapporteurs to take them into account, madam president, and i ask the members to support them by voting for them tomorrow, and i hope that they will be put forward, defended and taken into account by the european council when it takes its decision next week.
madam president, i have to ask you. it was not an easy task, and i think that mr lamassoure, a popular member of parliament, and mr severin, a socialist member, have produced a magnificent report which has a profound european and pro-european spirit. mr stubb is right: this is one of the saddest debates i have ever seen in this house, but i hope that tomorrow's vote on this report will be one of the best moments we have ever had, because this report - which is not just theirs, but also the report of the committee on constitutional affairs, with 70% support - guarantees, firstly, to respond to the council's demand to this house; secondly, to apply the principle of degressive proportionality; and, thirdly, to have a representative parliament, which would have been impossible under the treaty of nice, among other things because, unjustifiably and unjustifiably, some countries, such as spain, were left out of any proportional logic in their representation by that treaty. fortunately, the proposal by mr lamassoure and mr severin of the committee on constitutional affairs adequately solves the problem. and that is the question: either this report or nice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and in that direction, one can make all the promises one wants, but what we need is a realistic report so that parliament, at the lisbon summit, will see its efforts recognised and, moreover, supported along with the approval of the new reform treaty. thank you very much.
madam president, i would first of all like to express my disapproval of the way this debate is being conducted in parliament today. i was the first member to raise his hand to ask for the floor, the first. and now i'm doomed to be in last place, or the last, and not to exceed a minute. that said, i would like to congratulate the commissioner and the commission, both for this communication and for all the efforts they have made over the past year in consulting the parties concerned, to try to develop an integrated maritime policy for the whole of the european union, taking into account the importance of the marine environment and the constant attacks it suffers from human activity. i would like to ask the commissioner whether the military sector, whose activities sometimes also interfere with and affect the marine environment, will be given any consideration in community policy in order to avoid environmental damage. and on the other hand, the uncontrolled spills that are constantly occurring. when will the black boxes be introduced so that we can monitor all the movements in the fluids in the sentinels and in the fluids in the tanks of the ships?
the rapporteur. - madam president, although the murder of women is a global problem, there are areas of the world which have become, both because of the scale and complexity of the phenomenon, paradigmatic cases. such places are also, much to their chagrin, mirrors reflecting many of the ills that affect, to a greater or lesser extent, societies where social patterns based on a patriarchal culture prevail. this is the case, for example, in mexico and the countries of central america. in fact, it is precisely in mexico that the concept of femicide is beginning to take shape, especially when - and i quote - 'the special commission to investigate and prosecute cases of femicide in the mexican republic, chaired by congresswoman marcela lagarde, established that this concept referred to the whole of crimes against humanity which include the murders, kidnappings and disappearances of girls and women in a context of institutional collapse'. this is, in short, a breakdown of the rule of law which favours impunity. although the concept is in full evolution, there are those who defend the use of the term "feminicide" to oppose it to "homicide". i'd like to ask for a little silence in the courtroom. president. - thank you, madam president, i will continue. i said that although the concept is a concept that is in continuous evolution, in fact there are those who raise the need to speak of femicide to oppose it to homicide, it is relevant that what it reveals is the existence of the most worrying phenomena of our days: the murder of women for the simple fact of being women. the european parliament has been working hard on this issue for the past two years, and it will have an important turning point when the plenary adopts tomorrow, 11 october, the report on the deaths of women in mexico and central america and on the role of the european union in combating this phenomenon. the report is the result of a long and intensive process of dialogue with all the sectors involved and of numerous commitments between the political groups. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the speakers in the shadow for their support and to inform them that we are joined in the chamber by marjo searle and arsène van nierop, the mothers of brenda and hester, who were both killed in mexico. the adoption of this report will put the european parliament in line with other institutions which have already spoken out on the subject. this is the case with the council of europe or the united nations, as well as various parliaments and governments around the world. and, by its content, it will mean considerable progress, both in defining the problem and in the assumption of responsibility by various actors in the fight to eradicate it. one of the principles of the report is precisely to recognize, as the starting point for all analysis, the multiplicity of causes and types of crime of this kind. it is true, for example, that the highly publicized case of ciudad juárez - more than 400 women murdered since 1993 - has a lot to do with the fact that it is a border town with problems typical of this type of area. however, there are also many other factors which require a concerted effort and integrated public policies. these policies include: prevention; investing in equality education and reversing the culture of patriarchy; improving forensic data collection and investigation; facilitating and speeding up the filing of complaints; training police, judges, prosecutors and doctors in this type of crime; monitoring local and multinational companies operating in the area, many of which subject women workers to conditions of enormous vulnerability; legislative reforms and transposition of rules to the relevant levels; and, finally, placing special emphasis on accompanying and supporting victims and their families. in relation to this last point, however, i would like to denounce and deeply regret that, on numerous occasions, the victims are belittled and even criminalized; and their families are persecuted, accused even of damaging the good image of a city or a country, simply because they want to make the problem visible and because they want to demand - and demand - justice. it is clear that the main and most important responsibility for implementing all the measures proposed is the governmental institutions of the countries directly concerned, and in this case it is obvious that it is mexico and the countries of central america. however, given that the european union has an association agreement with the former - an agreement which also includes a democratic clause and respect for human rights - and that a similar agreement is also being negotiated with the central american region, i believe that it is more than justified for the european institutions to take a stand and make concrete commitments in the face of this problem. no one should see this as an intervention by the european union in the internal affairs of another country, especially when, even if we acknowledge that important progress has been made - as the report does - especially in legislative terms, the scale of the problem calls for greater efforts and commitments on the part of everyone, including europe. i hope, after all these months, that we will have reached the level of agreement and consensus necessary for this resolution to be adopted by a majority of the house tomorrow at the vote and that we will finally send a clear and firm message about what it means to combat violence against women, and in particular in the regions affected.
madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his work and, above all, for his willingness to express the unwavering and unwavering commitment of this parliament to a serious and urgent problem such as violence against women. i am glad that, after its passage through the committee, this report is now more balanced, less paternalistic and has the perspective it deserves, because, unfortunately, violence against women is not confined to a region, a country or a continent, but has a global or universal character, and we should take this into account in the future work of this house. unfortunately, and perhaps in other circumstances, it also occurs in the european union. i would like to say that, without going any further, the figures in my country are devastating: 166 000 cases brought before the courts, 48 000 people arrested last year (one every 12 minutes) and almost 70 women murdered, the last one yesterday by her partner. i believe that these terrible facts, madam president, should lead us to a deep reflection on the role of our parliament, which i do not understand as a court that sanctions and pontificates, but as an institution that has to propose effective strategies in order to seek, in common agreement with our partners and on the basis of dialogue, cooperation and good practice, solutions to eradicate this process. the case of mexico, which is very significant and is mentioned in the report, is a society which has a starting point of high doses of violence against citizens of the european union, whose families we express our solidarity with. but we must also recognize that it is a society that is struggling, that is not conforming and that is fighting valiantly to try to overcome this problem, through a mobilization of the state authorities, the federal authorities and the local authorities and through the whole of society and all its political parties, and that is why the progress that has been made is recognized in the report, madam president. it is important - and i will finish here - to ask the commission to complete the action programme in the field of human rights quickly and ambitiously, madam president. i would like to conclude by saying that violence against women is a problem of abuse, a problem of cowardice, a problem of intolerance and, above all, madam president, a problem of fear and impotence, of fear of accepting the will of others and, above all, of fear of peacefully imposing the will and the reasons on the basis of arguments, peacefully, and not through violence.
madam president, first of all, i too would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur on this report, of which i would like to highlight some points and also to highlight some aspects that i may have missed. to win the battle against the murder of women and against their impunity, we must attack from several fronts. in the short term, it is necessary to eliminate all discrimination in the legislative field, facilitate reporting and protection measures for victims, witnesses and family members, and strengthen the judicial and prison systems. in this context, i share the need for the european union to offer all its cooperation to these countries in order to overcome the difficulties and delays in the implementation of women's rights in the legal order, to promote the ratification of international commitments on the protection of human rights and to support the adaptation and updating of national legislation in this field. i shall therefore support the obiols-estrela amendment in this respect. improving the situation in the long term necessarily requires promoting values education from a gender equality perspective and education and awareness campaigns from childhood in schools, to promote social awareness to end violence against women and the stigmatisation of victims by the authorities. perhaps a more specific mention of the question of education is what i am perhaps missing. i believe that all the efforts we make in this direction will be inadequate to eliminate this scourge which should have no place in our 21st century societies.
i am convinced that we must be satisfied with the agreement reached on this report. it is certainly a balanced report, the result of consensus and of the thorough study we have all made of the subject. i would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur, mrs anne jensen, especially for her great willingness to engage in dialogue and to reach consensus in the preparation of this report. the european parliament is voting this morning on a report which shows its support for the commission in its efforts to alleviate the problem of overcapacity at airports, which, as the commission itself warns, and as its vice-president jacques barrot has warned, is a threat to the efficiency, safety and competitiveness of all those involved in the air transport sector. statistics show that by 2025 almost 4 million flights are expected to take place annually, and as a result more than 60 european airports will be overcrowded. from the very first contacts for the preparation of this report it has been very clear that the european commission, as we know, has no competence in the field of airports and cannot therefore force the member states to take a series of measures on airport capacity, unfortunately. but we in the committee on transport and tourism, together with the commission, do understand that a master plan for air traffic management should be put in place and that the member states should be given the necessary measures to optimise the capacity of european airports and thus minimise the problems of congestion. the report proposes measures, including improving the use of ground support services, promoting comfort, improving operational planning, optimising departure sequences and, above all, the famous and well-known slots, ensuring consistency of these and flight plans. to this end we have supported the creation of the airport capacity planning observatory under the auspices of the commission. i sincerely hope that this proposal will go through.
mr president, first of all i should like to warmly congratulate mrs jensen on her excellent report, which i believe will be very useful in improving the commission's proposals and in improving these airport bodies in particular, where more and more european citizens are forced to 'live in' - where, of course, we members of the european parliament have almost second homes at airports. i should also like to congratulate mr barrot and his services on this procedure of advancing the preparation of legislation, legislation which, because of its increasing complexity, usually generates conflict or can raise suspicions and which has come to be known as the 'vague method', that is to say, to carry out extensive and very rigorous consultations which identify the strengths and the obstacles to be removed while taking advantage of all the good ideas available. mrs jensen's report is full of such good ideas. i particularly appreciate the strong cooperation and the mandate being given to eurocontrol in preparing the new measures. i think it is important to dispel any suspicion of confrontation between the bodies that are functioning and those that we are not exactly full of. i also believe that it is extremely important to strengthen all the intelligent systems which, in this area and starting with the cesar traffic management system, will help us not only to improve traffic but also, as far as possible, to reduce the environmental impact. i have great hope that this future action plan will also help us to give the galileo system a definitive boost. i also see with great interest the role that territorial cohesion plays through regional airports, although i understand and share the reservations about the massive creation of local airports where efficiency or credibility are not enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also support the proposals to strengthen the social standards for groundhandling, because i believe that subcontracting, which is becoming increasingly important in this sector, lacks sufficient protection of those social standards, and i also very much appreciate mrs jensen's proposal for the necessary consultation of users so that what appears as competition in groundhandling is really effective. we also support the creation of the airport capacity observatory, because we believe that the commission can help us with this as a good instrument for the future. finally, i would simply like the commission to include in its future work the logistical factor and the link with cargo aviation, which is becoming more and more present and is a possible alternative to the approach to comfort proposed by the white paper.
yes, i sent the explanation of vote in writing yesterday and they replied to me saying that it was indeed in the process and all. that, on the one hand; on the other hand, i'm irujo amezaga; is that amenaza in spanish means something quite different. i don't think i'm anything like that right now. the explanation of vote was for the lamassoure report. i voted against this report in recognition of the difficulty in the composition of the european parliament. my amendment on supranational constituencies which would recognise political and cultural realities beyond the borders of the present member states was rejected in committee, as i said. i think that if we want the union of the peoples of europe, as the treaty on european union states, then this parliament should respect other realities.
mr president, this parliament is internationally recognized as the institution of freedom, human rights and respect for international law and the united nations system. that is why many of us would like to know the assessment of parliament itself and its president on the scandal that has been caused by the public knowledge of the talks between presidents bush and aznar, in 2003, at the crawford ranch shortly before the invasion of iraq. the debate contains extremely serious elements because of the lack of respect for the united nations, the contempt for transatlantic relations and the contempt for international law. we all suspected that something like this had happened, but never before has the evidence been so clear and this requires a stand taken by this parliament, if only to ensure that something so shameful never happens again.
mr president, it seems that the european union is suffering from a certain lack of information and activity in relation to the systematic violations of human rights committed by the kingdom of morocco in the occupied territories of western sahara. they're used to us. this parliament itself still deserves an explanation from the kingdom of morocco in relation to that delegation which was never able to visit those occupied territories. but to all this there are two more: firstly, morocco's failure to allow the congress of the association for human rights to be held in the occupied territories - the association is called codesa - and secondly, the united nations has not yet made public the report of the high commissioner for human rights who was visiting and giving a full account of the situation in the occupied territories. that report has not been published to date. i call on the european institutions - this parliament, the european commission and the council - to put an end to this situation.
this closes this spot.
the following is the joint debate on the report by christa klaß, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for community action to achieve the sustainable use of pesticides (com (2006) 373 c6-0246/2006 2006/0132 (cod)) (a6-0347/2007); the report by irena belohorská, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides (2007/2006 (ini)) (a6-0291/2007); and the report by hiltrud breyer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market (com (2006) 0373 c6-0246/2006 2006/0132 (cod)) (a6-038635/2006 (cod)) (a6-0613634/2007).
the commission's proposal for this report was based on a twofold legal basis: article 37 (2) on agricultural policy and article 152 (4) (b) on health protection. the committee on legal affairs has studied these proposals. there was a proposal, for example, from the committee responsible for the subject-matter, which proposed deleting rule 37 (2) and adding rule 175 (1) in addition, deleting rule 37 (2), keeping rule 152 (b) and adding rule 175 (1). the key to the legal basis is that the discussion should be in accordance with the object and content, and the committee on legal affairs, unanimously, considers that the applicable article is article 152 (4) (b), without any need to refer to article 175 (1). we think that this is perfectly clear and that neither the double legal basis proposed by the commission nor the double legal basis proposed by the committee responsible for the subject matter is necessary, but a simple reference to article 152 (4) (b) since the purpose of this proposal for a directive is the protection of human health.
madam president, commissioners, the proposal for a regulation which the european commission has drawn up to replace directive 91/414/ec achieves greater harmonisation of the authorisation procedures and at the same time ensures consumer protection. however, the result achieved in the committee on the environment not only fails to take account of this objective of greater harmonization, but unjustifiably radicalizes the measures to protect the consumer and the environment. the report starts from a total distrust of the agricultural production methods that already exist in the european union. but it is not just the farmer who will be affected: the consumer will be too, because many crops will become unviable and this will lead to imports, with a consequent reduction in food security. it has not been sufficiently assessed that the approval and use of plant protection products are already subject to strict controls both by the european food safety authority and by the competent authorities of the member states. in addition, this proposal increases the number of active substances from 1 100 authorized in 1991 to 148 which are included in annex i to this proposal. of these 148, only 34 are insecticides, nematicides or acaricides, which are the most necessary to be able to grow in mediterranean europe, where the level of insect attack is the highest in the whole union. insects not only cause pests on plants, they also transmit very serious diseases to humans. the commission's proposal to divide the european union into three zones for the mutual recognition of plant protection products must be reinstated. the exclusion criteria for pesticides should be established on the basis of genuine risk analyses. without a risk analysis it is impossible to know the impact of these substances on health or the environment. finally, i want to remind you that the poison is in the dose.
mr president, the own-initiative report we are voting on tomorrow is the third and last one drawn up by this house, which completes parliament's response to the energy review presented by the commission at the beginning of the year. our colleague, herbert reul, has done an excellent job throughout the whole debate in committee and has produced a solid and coherent text which fully reflects the concerns of the majority of members. fossil fuels and nuclear energy will continue to make up the bulk of our energy mix for a long time to come and, despite the ambitious targets we have set for renewables, their contribution will not be truly significant for several decades. we should therefore not slow down efforts in research, development and innovation in conventional sources, as meeting our commitments in the areas of climate change, security of supply and competitiveness implies achieving a more sustainable use of these sources. the result of the vote in committee was excellent, as it highlighted the progress made in the field of carbon dioxide capture, in improving energy efficiency in electricity generation, in the contribution that synthetic fuels can make to transport, and in the competitiveness of the nuclear sector. a group in this house has tabled almost 40 amendments to the nuclear part to change all objective and realistic references to it to references to renewable sources. i would remind you that this matter was already voted on at a previous plenary session and 'let me tell this group' that it is free to live in denial of reality, but that we will all suffer the consequences if its obsessions in the end make its theses prevail. most members of this house prefer to work with facts and use them to develop sensible policies that do not lead our society to collective failure.
mr president, despite the ambitious targets we have set ourselves, we all seem to agree that conventional energy sources will remain an important part of our energy mix. nuclear energy will therefore also continue to play a relevant role, because it remains necessary to ensure security and stability in the supply of many countries. in this sense, it is logical that research should be carried out in the areas where its weaknesses are most evident - such as safety or the treatment of its waste - but it must be remembered that the report clearly confirms that the nuclear option is the exclusive competence of the member states, as mr reul has, incidentally, mentioned at the outset. however, it seems that some people want europe to rely almost exclusively on nuclear energy for its future, making the development of renewable energy, efficiency gains or research dependent on this source. there is one small detail on which questions should be asked: what is the opinion of the citizens on this question? we are very aware of the reality, but we must of course have clear priorities and in this connection it must be noted that the importance of the strategic technological plan for energy - which the commission should present to us shortly - is a very important element. the priority objective, we believe, should be to reduce the costs of renewable energy, to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, industry and transport and to advance low-carbon technologies. these are the objectives on which europe and the member states must give political priority and on which efforts must be concentrated to build an energy policy for the future.
thank you, fellas. we've noted your request. it will be passed on to the other groups and we will see what the solution is.
the next item is the report by sahra wagenknecht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the contribution of tax and customs policies to the lisbon strategy (2007/2097 (ini)) (a6-0391/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, this debate has been very interesting and most of the contributions have been encouraging. like you, i am persuaded that our efforts to dismantle tax barriers in the internal market are worthwhile sustaining. i am particularly grateful for your support concerning the important project of the ccctb and i look forward to your forthcoming own-initiative report on the common base. as far as some of the critical remarks are concerned, i intend to send a personal letter to those honourable members of parliament who have expressed their objection, which i appreciate. it would be fair to answer them in written form as i do not want to take too much of your time. i am pleased that most of you share my view that taxation policy has a major role to play in attaining many of the eu’s policy objectives, and in particular growth, employment, competitiveness and sustainability. thank you for your attention and for your support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. i would like to thank the many colleagues for their patience and understanding, and i hope for everyone's patience, which has enabled us to close the debate five minutes earlier and thus be able to listen to everyone, instead of what happens at other times when we cannot hear what our colleagues are saying before an important debate or a vote. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
representative of the european parliament at the intergovernmental conference. congratulations, the president has lived up to his name by working with passion and reason to make this summit a success. mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i can testify as a witness at the end of the intergovernmental conference - i think this is the first time that the president and the three representatives at the conference have been admitted - and i can say that the portuguese presidency has listened to the european parliament: first, by recovering citizenship, which seemed impossible until mid-september, and secondly, by giving due consideration to the charter of fundamental rights, which also seemed impossible, and then, by also recognizing this substantial extension of majority voting. but we have not only achieved things for the european parliament, europe has achieved them and we have helped them. the president began his speech by speaking of ioannina. the challenge is to explain to the europeans what the protocol on the ioannina declaration is, and what has surprised me most is that the governments have fought very little in the council to stop what would be the introduction of the luxembourg compromise into the treaty, which would be its destruction. the same applies to the president of the commission, and i am addressing him on the subject of the high representative for foreign affairs. they will have to work very hard, because parliament will defend its rights in order to be able to reach an intelligent solution when the treaty enters into force - and i hope that this will be the case - since there will be a number of very interesting posts to be allocated and, of course, we want to follow this process in a democratic way. mr president, i conclude by saying that president socrates has given birth to the treaty of lisbon. it is still a very small creature, and i hope that in december everyone will show that they want it to grow and, above all, that everyone will act with mutual loyalty and solidarity so that this treaty of lisbon becomes a reality.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, my group's spokesman, mr daul, has said that the group of the european people's party is satisfied, and that is because we have got out of a quagmire, but we are not happy. and we are not because of the un-european atmosphere among governments, which contrasts with the polls to which president barroso has referred as to the will of the europeans, and also because the treaty of lisbon in the end provides for many tailor-made suits by governments that want more and more for themselves and less and less for europe. you have referred, mr president of the council - and i congratulate you on the agreement you have reached because, i repeat, i think it is important to get out of the quagmire - to three points which i would like to stress. first, i think it is very important to make a solemn proclamation in this house of the charter of fundamental rights. it wasn't done in nice, it was done behind closed doors. let us do so solemnly now, because the bill of rights with opt-outs or without opt-outs is the dna of europeans. secondly, mr president, i am concerned about the distribution of seats in the european parliament because what you have approved is contrary to a principle in the treaty, which is that of regressive proportionality. are you coming to parliament? we'll see what we do, but you know there's no regressive proportionality with what you've approved. and finally, the high representative: i think it is a good agreement that you have reached, but i think that the president of the council, the high representative and the president of the commission are a package. and we shall have to discuss this package in this parliament. in short, mr president, i think it was paul valéry, who was a great poet and, perhaps for that reason, a great europeanist, who wrote that a poem is never finished, it is only abandoned. the construction of europe is never finished. in this case we have abandoned, for the sake of consensus, some of the advances of the constitutional treaty, but we will be here to continue fighting for them. we shall do so on the basis of a phrase in the preamble which, ironically, has been saved from the fire: the closest union between the peoples of europe. that is our objective, mr president.
ladies and gentlemen, with the agreement of the political groups, in accordance with our rules of procedure, i propose the following amendments to the agenda for the current part-session. firstly, i propose that the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled to wind up the debate on the eu-russia summit be moved to the next partsession in brussels.
is there any other observation?
ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the point raised by mr watson is correct and is well founded in the rules of procedure. however, there is clearly a division of opinion on this issue. in accordance with the rules of procedure, we are going to resolve this in the only way we can, namely on the basis that the house is sovereign. i shall therefore put you to two votes: in the first vote we shall vote on whether you wish to vote on this question. if the result of this vote is negative, we shall leave the agenda as it stands and there will be no amendment. if you decide that you want to vote, then we will vote on the item, on whether or not to postpone the vote on the motions for resolutions. i therefore put to the vote whether the house wishes to take a decision on this matter. (parliament decided to take a decision on the matter) i therefore now put to the vote the proposal i have put to you, namely the transfer to the next partsession in brussels of the vote on the motions for resolutions on the eu-russia summit. those who are in favour of this vote are in favour of moving it to the next part-session and those who are against are in favour of keeping the agenda as it stands. (parliament adopted the proposal) secondly, i propose that the following two reports, which are currently scheduled for debate on thursday between 3 and 4 p.m., be put to the vote at 12 noon on thursday: the report by margie sudre, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the amended proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of madagascar (com (2007) 0428 c6-0064/2007 2007/0006 (cns)) and the report by emanuel jardim fernandes, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of mozambique (com (2007) 0472) c6-0428/2007 2007/0170 (cns)). if there are no comments, we shall proceed to include these votes directly next thursday at the 12 o'clock shift.
we propose that you register directly for the voting period on thursday at 12 noon. they're now booked in for debate on thursday between 3 and 4 p.m. we therefore propose that you register to vote on thursday at 12 noon, without debate. (parliament adopted the proposal)
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
mr. heaton-harris, we will transmit your remarks.
look, mr. booth, nothing about a fiasco. we are making mistakes here which, in a vote of this length, are statistically normal. what's ridiculous are interventions like yours. (applause) - before the vote on the legislative resolution:
ladies and gentlemen, two unfortunate circumstances have indeed coincided. on the one hand, we had a very long preliminary debate, which delayed the time for the vote, and on the other hand, we had one of the most voluminous votes of this period today. we shall therefore be interrupting the voting here and i thank you for your cooperation.
opinion of the committee on budgetary control. mr president, madam commissioner, the committee on budgetary control has focused its opinion for the 2008 budget on two key issues:the first is compliance with article 44 of the new interinstitutional agreement as regards the statement of assurance and the annual certification to be sent by each member state. we are here, with this amendment, to take up the conclusions and recommendations of the discharge for 2004 and 2005, which have already been implemented by a minority of member states, which we believe should be increasing. we know that the european commission cannot assess the extent to which the member states have complied with this commitment until 15 february. however, and perhaps to encourage the european commission to pursue this assessment without wasting time, we have introduced a reserve in the commission's staff costs. we are sure that the commission has as much interest as parliament in ensuring that the member states fully apply this article 44 in the field of shared management. so i'm sure we can come to an agreement on the reservation. the second axis is that of transparency. we believe that the more detailed the budget expenditure is, the easier it will be for the budgetary authority to monitor its implementation. that is why we have asked for the creation of new budget lines for sensitive matters, for categories of expenditure which are very sensitive to parliament, such as agencies, rural development or other categories, such as external action, seeking, i repeat, a very clear commitment from this parliament, from the committee on budgetary control, which was to contribute to maximum transparency, which is what public opinion demands of us.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments. we have put forward an opinion in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which was adopted unanimously - there was no vote against - in which we welcomed the progress made in the appropriations for improving competitiveness for economic growth and employment and also, especially, those for cohesion for growth and employment within the european union. in relation to the subjects specific to the committee, economic and monetary affairs, the field of enterprise, competition, taxation and customs union, the fight against tax fraud and fraud in general in european statistics and, in particular, the chapter on statistics, we have celebrated, as it could not be otherwise, the budgetary progress, the budgetary approach, but we have also seen shortcomings, as it could not be otherwise. we would have liked more money, more money spent on economic growth, that is, more money for the welfare of the citizens, to support more clearly the programmes of monetary union, to support more clearly small and mediumsized enterprises as a source of job creation. of course we all have to be guided by the criteria of austerity - that goes without saying and more said by myself. but from there to the current shortcomings of our union budgets, there is a chasm. we believe that the european union really should be making more incisive budgets in terms of stimulating economic growth that creates jobs, and for that the allocation of resources that belong to all european countries is an absolutely necessary allocation.
opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. mr president, first of all i would also like to begin by thanking the members of the committee on budgets for their support for the amendments which we referred from the committee on the internal market and which, moreover, were amendments which were adopted almost unanimously in this committee. firstly, as regards title 12 of the budgets, 'internal market', let me just say that what we in the committee wanted to do, through our amendments, was to recover the amounts of the ppp which had been provided for by the commission at the time and which had subsequently been reduced in the council document. i would like to mention or remind you of the importance of all internal market issues in the european union. i think it's obvious. it is one of the main legs on which all the later development that has been built around it is supported. in a few years, such as last year and next year in 2008, when important legislation is due to be adopted - we could recall the services directive - and when further progress is also planned towards legislation to improve the internal market - we believe that it is necessary to recover the amounts provided for in the gpa. the same argument could be made for title 14 'customs union' as it also refers to improving the union's external borders, which in turn will enable us to ensure the proper functioning of our single market. finally, with regard to title 17, on the consumer protection aspect, which concerns the committee on which i was rapporteur, i would like to say that we have also recovered, with the support of the committee on budgets, the amounts from the app in respect of the solvit programme. consumer policies, consumer protection policy, have different levels of development in the different countries of the european union. there are often discrepancies which need to be resolved through instruments other than the legal or judicial systems. solvit has been 'proven' to be a good tool for this. finally, mr president, i should like to say that i am particularly grateful to the committee on budgets for its support of a pilot project with a budget of one million euro which will enable a study, a monitoring and a comparative study of the implementation of consumer policy measures in the various member states to be carried out in the coming year.
mr president, with a budget representing 0.99% of the union's gdp we cannot have a strong political position. as regards category 1a, competitiveness for growth and employment, it is worth noting that for the first time the figures for these policies represent the largest part of the preliminary draft budget. however, the council's figures cut these categories for the lisbon strategy, which must be the focus of the union's policies. i would like to mention the funding of galileo and the european institute of technology, which are priority projects for our competitiveness and credibility. the financial perspectives approved for 2007 and 2013 are insufficient to finance projects of such strategic importance. the second point concerns the frontex agency, which plays an essential role, both from a humanitarian and a political point of view. the european council of june last reiterated the need to strengthen frontex in order to improve the union's capacity to manage the external borders. this is one of the priorities which this parliament has repeatedly expressed. this is evidenced by the proposed increase of eur 30 million in commitment appropriations for the agency's operational expenditure, which represents an increase of 127% over the preliminary draft budget. the allocation to category 4 is clearly insufficient to achieve our objectives and to meet our commitments as a global actor and in particular, as already mentioned here, in the kosovo and palestine operations. finally, i would like to point out that the confirmation of the union's participation in the 2008 international exhibition 'water and sustainable development' in zaragoza is a good decision and a good opportunity to bring citizens closer to the european policies we need.
vice-president of the commission. the commission fully agrees on the importance of combating the disappearance and abduction of minors. enhancing children’s rights, as you all know very well, is one of my personal priorities. the first action undertaken by the european commission in relation to this was to support, in 2001, the creation of a european network of organisations, the european federation on missing and sexually exploited children, which is now called missing children europe. to date, we have 21 organisations in 15 member states. then, with the financial backing of our community programme, the daphne programme, several centres were created or revamped from 2001 to 2005, with the aid of child focus. several member states have, over the last 10 years, set up emergency call lines in order to speed up searches and support families of missing children. cases of missing children and abduction can quickly become, and still become, cross-border phenomena. we therefore propose to have a single telephone number for urgent calls about missing children. to that end, the decision of 15 february 2007 on reserving the national numbering range beginning with ‘116’ for harmonised numbers for harmonised services of social value will be implemented. this is an important decision by each member state, particularly in relation to the 116000 number for hotlines to report missing children. you know that putting in place the services corresponding to a 116 number remains the responsibility of member states. there, unfortunately, i have to say that three member states have not yet responded. legal measures have been taken by 17 member states. there have been calls for candidates for the management of the hotline numbers in 12 member states, and only four member states have so far chosen service providers: belgium, denmark, greece and portugal. so i am not at all satisfied at the state of play in implementation of the decision taken in february 2007. in addition to these emergency phone numbers, a mechanism of assistance in the search for missing children is necessary. several systems already exist and can serve as an inspiration for a europe-wide action. you know about the american system, ‘amber alert’, the french ‘alerte enlèvement’ and the greek ‘amber alert hellas’ system, which are already in place. we support member states in putting similar mechanisms in place nationally. provided that all member states adopt such mechanisms and that interconnection schemes are put in place, resolving cross-border cases would be possible and easier. to that end, we have drafted guidelines describing our idea for a europe-wide child alert mechanism. the issue was discussed for the first time at the informal justice and home affairs council on 1 october 2007. finally, we support the creation of an international database of child abuse images, which will be a new tool to help identify victims and criminals. the feasibility study and implementation phase are funded by the agis programme and, since september 2005, this database used by interpol is funded mainly by g8 governments and private companies. so far this database has made it possible to locate and arrest several criminals in europe and outside europe, most recently a very well-known paedophile in thailand, and save victims.
madam president, thank you very much for allowing us to meet the commissioner face to face, whom i have already asked many questions on similar subjects. the issue of missing children is a distressing one. for example, in my islands alone, in the canaries, three children have disappeared in recent years without leaving any trace, that is, they do not even appear in the pedophilia networks. they disappear completely, raising doubts as to whether these children are being used for certain purposes, such as organ trafficking, and whether mafia organizations with possibly international connections are operating within the european union. i have the impression that this is a matter which requires a somewhat more ambitious initiative than has been undertaken by the commission so far. i know that the commissioner has always been ambitious, but i would urge him to be ambitious in this area too because the issue is distressing for parents, for society in general, because children are the most valuable thing we have.
mr president, it is clear that the price increases suffered by consumers directly in the shopping basket are due to a number of factors, but i shall only refer to what mr stevenson has said in my speech. i think the role of intermediaries and large food chains is worrying. in many cases they are speculative, because the increases in final products are higher, as has been said, in percentage terms, than the increases in raw materials. the situation is also very worrying for producers who, in view of the large purchasing power of the large retailers, are forced to lower their selling prices and, moreover, are unable to pass on the rises in raw materials and fuels. that is why i think - and i support my predecessor - that it is important for the commission, and i take this opportunity to congratulate the commissioner on her presence here, to take action and take action: to investigate and put in place the necessary means to put an end to these unfair and in many cases abusive practices. i think the resolution is very timely and we are in time to take some action.
as i said last month in the debate on the abolition of compulsory bearding in this house - and indeed in the evening - the increase in agricultural prices should give rise to a serious reflection on the direction the common agricultural policy is taking. we shall soon have the european commission's communication on the so-called cap health check on the table, but i am afraid that in that communication the community executive does not dare to acknowledge that the liberalisation of markets also comes at a price and that the european farmer and consumer are already beginning to pay that price. many members of this house have always favoured the dismantling of market management measures and have helped to convey the negative image that the european consumer has built up around the cap. as i said in the last plenary session, i would like to know how we are going to explain to the citizens that we have hardly any instruments at our disposal to control these increases in agricultural prices in the european union. it would also be interesting to ask the european commission to estimate the cost to the european citizen of this increase in food prices and to compare this cost with the cost to the individual citizen of paying for the common agricultural policy. i would also like to know whether the public will benefit in the coming years from this liberalisation of markets and the drastic reduction in direct aid to european farmers. i will give you a fact which i think is very significant: before the creation of the cap in 1961, the prices of the raw material for the manufacture of feedingstuffs were twice as high as the prices borne by farmers twenty years later. the common agricultural policy has ensured that raw materials are supplied at a reasonable cost, while at the same time the european consumer has also benefited from a fair price for a basic good. in a country like mine, spain, we are seeing the price of such a basic food as milk go up. i think that the ministries of economy and finance of the european governments should now also be more concerned about the impact of this increase on inflation in their states.
mr president, commissioner, we are all here tonight and we know the reasons for the rise in the prices of cereals and raw materials, from the first to the last. although you have given us a good account of these causes, there are other matters which you have not touched upon. i would prefer, since you are going to present your proposals on the 'medical examination' of the cap in november, to tell you what i think and what i hope you will do in this 'medical examination' to analyse whether we are facing a cap that is in line with the new needs of the world market, because one of the main causes of the shrinking of european production has been, i am convinced, precisely the lack of foresight on the part of the community's experts. the current extremely low stocks policy needs to be reviewed. the community intervention stocks - as has already been said here - should be the safety net to ensure supply at times like these, but the community stocks and the community stocks are empty. i am very concerned, madam commissioner, about the consequences for european livestock farming of the increase in animal feed, which is having a very negative effect, especially on small and mediumsized farms.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mr mantovani and i would like to express the commission’s thanks to him and to the responsible committees for their proactive engagement and supportive stance throughout the negotiations on the european qualifications framework (eqf) for lifelong learning. this recommendation goes to the heart of what the eu is about: mobility, cooperation between countries, promoting prosperity and helping individual citizens. we propose the eqf because you, the european parliament, and the member states asked us to find ways of promoting mobility and lifelong learning, without which we cannot achieve the lisbon goals. the eqf has been developed within the education and training 2010 work programme, the education dimension of the lisbon agenda. the eqf seeks to overcome the barriers that remain to european workers and learners when they wish to change jobs or move to another country for work or for study. too often, europeans have difficulty in using their qualifications in another european country. even in their own country they find their educational pathways blocked by poor integration of the different parts of their national education system. the eqf will relate the countries’ different national qualification systems to each other, acting as a translation device. it will thus make other countries’ qualifications more readable and so enable individuals to move to another country if they wish to work or study. at the national level it will – indeed it is already doing this – stimulate the development of national qualifications frameworks. qualifications frameworks promote lifelong learning by, for example, making it easier for people to move between different types of education and training institutions, for example from vocational training to higher education. i should acknowledge that the eqf is a technical, even complex instrument. it will be used mainly by experts and educational authorities, but it is for the benefit of the citizen. what we are debating today is the product of a collective endeavour between the commission, countries, social partners, education and training associations and other stakeholders. the eqf has very much been built on a consensus and we have sought to carry stakeholders with us throughout the process. the eqf recommends that countries relate their qualification systems to the eqf by 2010 and ensure that individual national qualifications carry a reference to the appropriate eqf level by 2012. these dates were proposed by the council and parliament. we have also been happy to agree to the insertion of a new recommendation on quality assurance proposed by parliament, which we feel reinforces the importance of these principles. we also agree to parliament’s proposal to include a reference to credit systems which recognises the rapid development and application of these components of qualifications frameworks. we believe that parliament and the council have indeed improved the text. the approach adopted in the negotiations by the parliament, council and commission reflects the consensus behind the eqf across europe. there is now a momentum behind the eqf; the great majority of countries recognise its potential for mobility and as a lifelong learning instrument. a large majority are now developing a national qualifications framework related to the eqf, so this proposal is already having a major impact on europe’s education and training systems. i hope you can agree to support this proposal at first reading so that it can formally be adopted by the council in the coming weeks.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr president, mr commissioner, because he has really tackled a subject which goes far beyond what we can think of. in a globalised world, europe and the individual countries of the european union will be whatever the qualifications of their human resources are. if we were to sum up in one pillar what is going to enable europe to be competitive in this global world, and each of the countries that make up it, it is the qualification that the human resources, the european citizens, have. in this sense, it is absolutely essential that lifelong learning and lifelong learning be training adapted to the demands of the labour market and that these demands are constantly met. otherwise, it will be impossible to compete. we are also faced with the following paradox: people are getting older, but they are getting older and younger and potentially more active, and instead they have resources that are very insufficient to be able to continue to give back and to give to society, and to realize themselves in the world of work. in this sense, the first aspect is that lifelong learning, based primarily on a technological dimension, which is what brings added value, is a fundamental concern. but there is a second point, which concerns the future of europe, and that is the integration of these human resources into a competitive internal market, for which we need these certificates recognized by all the states, which will allow citizens of some countries to compete with others, on the basis of training recognized by all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
as you know, mr president, the enlargement of the european union to include one country is always a dialectical process in which the efforts of the candidate must be firm, but in which the efforts of the union must also be clear. and i mean that when the european union has a new, reformed treaty, to be more democratic and more effective, it will also be in a better position to continue its own enlargement. this is the case after the lisbon agreement. turkey is making great progress. we are all with the government in ankara, with the turkish people in the fight against terrorism and, to continue the progress to which i referred, we must nevertheless call for restraint, moderation, not violation of international law. a large-scale military intervention in northern iraq would be to add fuel to the fire in that country and also to put turkey in serious trouble. finally, i would like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on the resolution, but i am missing one point: why do we repeatedly forget that turkey is not only a candidate country but also a key euro-mediterranean partner in the barcelona process? however, again, this extreme is missing from the text. turkey is key to that process, we are key to turkey also in the euro-mediterranean process.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate was a lively one and a very useful one for the presidency, one which shows very clearly and visibly, if there were any doubts, how different the views and views of many members are on the negotiating process leading to turkey's accession to the european union. but i think that whatever our views on this subject, i think it is very clear from this debate that turkey is indeed a key strategic partner for the european union, whether on the political, economic or security level. and i think it is also clear from this debate that the prospect of turkey's accession to the european union has been the driving force behind fundamental political and social reforms in turkey. of course, some will regret that these reforms are not so rapid or not so profound, but the truth is that turkish society and political society have gradually moved in the direction we want, that is, towards an increasingly democratic, more pluralist society, more respectful of the rule of law. the copenhagen criteria, which guide or are the reference frame of this whole negotiating process, are extraordinarily clear - for turkey and for any candidate country: the european union can only be a member of those countries which clearly respect both our economic principles and, perhaps more importantly, our political principles, and it is clear that if there is a turkey which fully meets these criteria it can become a member of the european union. this is an absolutely clear point and i do not think it should be raised by anyone, or at least it should not be raised. on the question of the pkk terrorist attacks on the border between turkey and iraq, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the presidency statement on this matter which we issued on 22 december, in which the presidency condemns in the strongest possible terms the terrorist attacks perpetrated by the pkk, in which we express our active solidarity with the families of the victims and also consider it important that the international community should support turkey's efforts to combat terrorism, a fight which we believe should be carried out in accordance with the rule of law without endangering international peace and stability and regional stability, and also, of course, calling on turkey to refrain from taking military action which is disproportionate. we also call on the turkish and iraqi governments to cooperate effectively in overcoming this problem, and in particular to ensure that it is not possible for terrorist acts to be launched from iraqi territory against turkish territory.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you for this very substantive and timely debate shortly before we issue our progress report on turkey on 6 november – that is, in two weeks. in the commission we aim at presenting as objective and fair a report as the one presented by ms oomen-ruijten. with today’s debate and your subsequent resolution, this house sends some very clear messages to turkey. first of all, i think we all agree that now is the time to step up the reform efforts in the country for the sake of the turkish citizens, yes, but also for making serious progress in the eu accession negotiations. especially, there is very strong emphasis on reforms without unnecessary delay as regards the freedom of expression, the infamous article 301 and other equivalent articles, as well as religious freedoms. likewise, we need to see progress on women’s rights, trade union rights, as well as cultural and religious rights and international obligations over turkey. moreover, we condemn terrorist attacks and we understand the turkish need to protect its citizens, but we also urge turkey to seek a political solution in cooperation with iraqi regional authorities and the international community and to show a sense of proportionality in its response to pkk terrorism. concerning the armenian issue, the commission supports parliament’s call, as expressed in your draft resolution, for a process of reconciliation between turkey and armenia. this is the best and most effective way that in time would lead to genuine results over reconciliation and justice. we also consider that all the issues in turkey, including the armenian issue, should be debated openly and peacefully within turkish society in the name of freedom of expression. therefore, the reform of article 301 is also essential for a serious and effective debate on the armenian issue that could lead to genuine reconciliation. the current restraints over freedom of expression have a chilling effect and even contribute to creating an atmosphere of intolerance and hatred, as was unfortunately and sadly shown in the case of the assassination of hrant dink earlier this year. finally, we have to recall one thing. i do, and you have also, set very strong demands for turkey as regards the reform process and rightly so. at the same time, we need to recall that the equation works only if both sides do what they have got to do. that means, when we are firm we also must be fair. we have to keep our word and stick to the accession perspective of turkey as outlined in the negotiation mandate. (applause)otherwise, we can shout as loud as we wish, but it would be like shouting for the forest. there would be no response, only a long silence.
in order to close this debate, two motions for resolutions have been tabled, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 24 october 2007. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the eu-russia summit.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you are aware, the 20th summit between the european union and russia will take place at the end of this week, to be precise next friday, in the portuguese town of mafra. we believe that this will be a good opportunity for the leaders of russia and the european union to take stock of our relations. we believe that relations between the european union and russia are developing well, in general, and are certainly much better than they are sometimes portrayed in the international press. russia is a key partner for the union and we take our relationship very seriously. the summit will address the situation in the union and russia. we will report on developments in the european union, in particular on the progress made in drafting the new reform treaty, which we have just approved in lisbon, and on the package of energy liberalisation measures proposed by the commission and adopted on 9 september. as regards common areas, we will review the progress made in implementing the roadmaps, which remains largely positive, although some areas need to be boosted. in certain important sectors the permanent partnership council has contributed to achieving this objective. the culture jcp, which will take place on the eve of the summit, will also help to intensify our cultural cooperation. in terms of the priorities for the summit, we intend to agree on the launch of the early warning mechanism in the energy sector, which was agreed in principle at the last summit in samara. given the interdependence between the european union and russia in the field of energy, it is essential to increase trust and strengthen mutual cooperation. we will therefore stress the objectives and principles that govern the union in our energy partnership, namely reciprocity, transparency, openness and the creation of an effective legal and regulatory framework. in our view, the principles of the energy charter treaty and the text on global energy security adopted by the g8 in st petersburg should be reflected in the new eu-russia agreement which will be legally binding and which will replace the current epa. in the area of investment, we welcome the institutionalisation of the dialogue provided for in the road map for the common economic area. we attach great importance to the creation of transparent, non-discriminatory and predictable conditions for union companies to invest in russia, taking into account the law on strategic investments which is currently being discussed in the duma. we will also urge russia to avoid selective use of accompanying policies, such as environment or taxation, to hinder existing investments or create hidden obstacles to new investments. russia's accession to the wto is a priority for us, and we intend to address this issue at the summit as well. i think the commission can say something more on this subject. i would just like to stress that the summit will also serve to press for progress if a satisfactory solution has not been found to the main outstanding issues, such as export duties for logs or discriminatory railway charges. we are aware that the summit is taking place at a time when elections are approaching in russia, both for the presidency and for the duma. in the electoral process, freedom of expression, including freedom of the press and freedom of assembly, will be of paramount importance and a real test of russia's democratic legitimacy. the odihr should be authorised to observe the elections to the duma without restrictions. as a member of the osce and the council of europe, russia has a particular responsibility to preserve the values which are common to us all. it is regrettable that some issues have clouded relations between the european union and russia, given that our interdependence is growing rather than diminishing. russia and the union need to work together to overcome differences, as there is really no alternative to our cooperation. unfortunately, the start of negotiations on a new agreement between the union and russia remains at an impasse. the ban imposed by russia on imports of polish meat and vegetable products continues to constitute a major obstacle to the start of negotiations. the commission expressed its willingness to continue contacts with a view to finding a mutually acceptable solution. unfortunately, the situation has been further complicated by the decision taken by the russian veterinary authorities at the end of last month to ban the import of meat produced by 36 companies in the union. the question of the interruption of oil supplies to lithuania via the druzhba pipeline is also a point of contention which prevents the opening of negotiations on a new agreement between the union and russia. more than a year has passed without russia providing any official information about the pipeline leak or the prospects for renewed supply. it is therefore important to find a satisfactory solution that creates the confidence needed to further develop the partnership between the union and russia in the field of energy. although the start of the negotiations is currently at a standstill, the situation should not be overly dramatic. in fact, we agreed with russia in 2006 that the jcpoa would remain in force, thus avoiding any legal vacuum in our relations with russia. finally, we will certainly raise the most important issues on the current international agenda, in particular kosovo and iran, and we will underline how essential practical cooperation with russia in our common neighbourhood is, so that we can address problems of common interest and concern, in particular the so-called frozen conflicts.
member of the commission. mr president, russia is not only a close neighbour, for us it is a strategic partner. if we look to trade and investment we see they are booming, and we also see, as our president has said, that interdependence is growing. but we also know that russia is a key partner in tackling regional conflicts and global challenges – also mentioned here – and that much remains to be done to develop the full potential of our relationship. the upcoming summit on friday is the next occasion to assess the state of our relationship. while several of the outstanding issues will not be solved, we will make progress on some others and thus will also prepare the ground for future work at this moment of transition. we know it is a critical period for russia, a few months ahead of the crucial parliamentary and presidential elections, and we also know that the european union has repeatedly expressed its concerns on the implementation of democratic principles and human rights commitments in russia. we, the european union, are watching developments very closely – the forthcoming elections will be an important test in that regard – and we expect russia will make a sensible choice and invite the osce observers to monitor the elections. we shall also take the opportunity to raise our concerns on human rights issues, such as the limitations on press freedom, the attacks on journalists, the pressure on ngos and also the situation in the northern caucasus. i had the occasion to discuss the forthcoming summit with the president’s key advisor, the special envoy mr yastrzhembsky, when i was in kaliningrad on 11 and 12 october. let me start with a few good examples, but then say where we will not make progress. i believe that russia is about to announce a major financial contribution to several eu-led cross-border cooperation programmes. this will be very welcome since cooperation across our developing borders is an important feature following the 2004 enlargement. and kaliningrad is, of course, a very special case, due to its unique geographic location. this requires, as we have always found, special arrangements to facilitate cross-border cooperation and local border traffic. russia’s financial contribution, however, would also be very timely, considering the very serious traffic congestion on borders between the member states and russia in kaliningrad and at border crossing points with several member states elsewhere. lines of trucks of up to 50 km on the eu side of the border are clearly not acceptable. we need to implement the measures and therefore we have agreed with russia to reduce the bottlenecks. we are just launching a pilot project in the commission, exchanging customs information and financing modernisation of border infrastructure. for its part, russia must streamline its procedures at the borders. in principle it is ready to do so but it takes a certain amount of time. our president has already mentioned energy. i would just like to add that we should be able to announce an agreement on the early warning mechanism to deal with problems in supply before they come to crisis point. our president has spoken about energy culture and also investments so i need not add anything here. i just would like to complement it by saying that investment and business relations will also be discussed at an industrialists’ round table in lisbon, with the participation of günter verheugen and andris piebalgs, starting tomorrow, thursday. this round table will then report its conclusions to the summit on friday. i think this is a good contribution to what is really a growing business relationship. russia is a key economic actor and, on wto, i would like to add that we will help russia’s efforts. you know we have always been committed to russia’s wto accession. we also think it is very important to have a level playing field, and that is why we will place so much emphasis on the completion of russia’s accession to the wto. the summit will give a new impetus to this complex process, which is at a critical stage. we shall be signing a new agreement on steel on the margins of the summit, thus increasing the quantities which russia may export to the european union. another sign of positive elements in eu-russia cooperation is the fact that the memorandum of understanding between the european monitoring centre on drugs and drug addiction and the russia federal drug control service is going to be signed on the margins of the summit. on a less positive note, i would like to inform you that, although there was a clear russian commitment in samara in may to finally sign our agreement on the siberian overflights, in time for the next summit in mafra, prospects for this happening seem to be very slim. we want to turn the page on this long-standing dispute. a positive move by russia would then allow us also to go ahead with the aviation summit, planned to take place in moscow in november, to identify the enormous potential for cooperation in this sector. as regards international issues, kosovo will certainly be one of the most important and we need to consider jointly with russia how to bring this question to a solution, based on the ongoing efforts of the troika. we must avoid a renewed conflict in the balkans. we will also discuss other important international issues such as the middle east prior to the annapolis conference; iran, following president putin’s recent visit to tehran and afghanistan; burma/myanmar; and the situation with regard to the frozen conflicts particularly in georgia and moldova. we would like to work with russia in a constructive spirit in the search for solutions for these vexed issues. therefore, what we have to do is continue our ongoing work and never lose sight of our long-term projects.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, let us hope, as the press reminded us, that the portuguese autumn will be warmer than the russian spring, referring to the samara summit. i think we must continue to work, as the commissioner said, to build up this strategic partnership with russia, but the climate will depend more on the temperature of russia than on that of the european union. i would like to say that the commissioner has been very clear about this. but there are a number of premises on which this relationship must be built, mr president. the first is that any decision or any act against a member state must be taken as a decision or an act against the european union as a whole. secondly, mr president, the european union has an unwavering and unwavering commitment to the cause of human rights, and it must be very firm in defending these principles. in this respect, i think we should welcome the decision of the russian government to finally authorize and issue visas to the green group so that they can meet in moscow. and i think that the declaration made at the recent summit of the caspian countries that they are forming a kind of broad front to deal with regional and international threats and with certain positions in the united nations is also a cause for concern. i'm finished, mr president. i would like to ask the commissioner, mr president-in-office, to defend the interests of the european union with pragmatism, to build this partnership, but do not forget that we must put figures at the service of ideals, and i recall what was said in a recent 'excellent' article in the economist, in which it was recalled that, at the wiesbaden summit, mr putin told the federal chancellor, mrs merkel, that dostoevsky had lost the game of roulette there. i hope that the european union will have more luck in portugal than the russian writer in wiesbaden.
madam president, commissioners and minister, this debate must contribute to the road to lisbon and the summit and we should thank the portuguese presidency for focusing its attention on relations between europe and africa. we hope that this will help europeans to understand that their destiny is closely linked to the destiny of africa, that we understand that the development of africa is one of the conditions for our prosperity, that we cannot control migration flows or have a secure energy supply without a strong partnership with africa. let's be clear that it's not to help the poor poor, but in our own interest. we must also be clear that africans sometimes have little confidence in our statements, which they regard as rhetoric, because we have not yet overcome the colonial past to establish this solid partnership between equals that we all desire, that we declare, but which is still far from reality. the task of modernizing africa is immense. the responsibility of africans in their situation is great, but so is ours. and without us - without our help, without our cooperation - they will not get out of the situation described in the martens report, because it will not be only with trade but with aid and equality in relations that they will be able to overcome the historical legacy for which we are clearly partly responsible.
madam president, my congratulations to the rapporteur, my agreement with mr michel on the creation of a partnership and relations of a new type between europe and africa, my congratulations to mr lobo antunes on the fact that the portuguese presidency is organising a europe-africa summit. but, while this new type of relationship is coming, official development assistance (oda) is and will continue to be for years to come a very useful instrument for europe's relations with africa, not only for europe as a whole but for the member countries. we should promote healthy competition between the member states in the increase and quality of development aid. spain, my country, has tripled that aid in this legislature, and compared to the previous government, from 200 million euros in 2004 to 850 million budgeted for 2008. spain is now the second country in the world in terms of the effort it puts into development aid and it is also the first of the countries in the development aid committee which has grown the most in this period.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of cluster munitions. its use, in the summer of 2006, in the lebanon war, showed us the extent to which it could cause a humanitarian catastrophe. these are weapons that threaten civilians and military personnel, but in practice, 90 per cent of their victims are civilians, and 10 per cent of these deadly bombs do not explode, they remain in the ground and have an effect similar to that of landmines. therefore, cleaning up land contaminated by these munitions is dangerous, both for the populations and for international peacekeeping forces. these bombs are not only used in war, they are also a long-term obstacle to transport, agriculture, trade barriers and obstacles to humanitarian aid. so they are one of the main problems that stand in the way of the development of poor countries. because it is the poorest countries that are most affected by these bombs, and within them, the main victims are the poorest and least educated populations. we cannot say that peace-keeping or military intervention is no longer done efficiently by bombing the enemy from 10,000 metres above, by dropping bombs on the ground as if they were shower water. the deployment of peacekeepers and humanitarian aid are now essential to stabilize and rebuild the areas affected by the conflict and these bombs are now completely unjustified, even from a military point of view. today we are going to talk to the commission and the council precisely about the initiatives that have emerged in this general change of attitude of the international community towards cluster bombs. the european parliament has repeatedly taken a very clear position: we want to see a global international regulation prohibiting the use, production, transfer, financing and storage of cluster bombs. until we achieve this, the member states of the union should take unilateral action to prohibit the use and transfer of these bombs, as some states have already done and others are preparing to do. the european parliament, madam commissioner, mr minister, would like to thank the efforts of the presidency of the council, the commission and the member states to negotiate a new protocol to the united nations convention on certain conventional weapons, which addresses all the humanitarian problems associated with the use of cluster bombs. but unfortunately, we have to admit that, to date, there has not been much progress. that is why we need a solid oslo process, around which states, ngos, the red cross, international bodies, define and implement an ambitious agenda. so far, oslo has been supported by 80 states, including many developing countries, but it is not at all clear that this process will finally lead to an outright ban on cluster bombs. what is clear is that we need an integrated and comprehensive approach that is humanitarian in nature and that does not just talk about disarmament, that its main objective should be the protection of civilians, helping them to cope with the consequences of war, establishing the destruction of existing stockpiles of those bombs and the cleaning up of contaminated areas. in a context where important events are about to take place, such as the meeting in vienna in december, or in brussels next week, or on 5 november, world day against cluster bombs, where there will be a great mobilization everywhere, what will we do? i would like to ask the representatives of the commission and the council what we are going to do, what our position will be. what is the european union's position on the state of play of the discussions in the framework of the convention on the prevention of certain conventional weapons? will we have a common position from the council on this matter? what initiatives are we taking to encourage member states to take national measures to ban cluster bombs? what are we doing to support third countries in cleaning up land contaminated by these devices, in educating about the risks and in destroying stockpiles of munitions that are already banned? finally, will the commission consider holding an international conference on the role of the european union in addressing the socioeconomic, humanitarian and developmental consequences of a conflict in which such weapons have been used?
mr president, to join the voices that have been heard about the prohibition of the production, export and storage of these 'cluster bombs' which are so harmful to the civilian population and to support the oslo process, even though, as the colleague who has preceded me in the use of the word has said, my country is a country that manufactures, stores and exports this type of weaponry. but i have to give a broad report: on 21 september - that is, just a month ago - the government, through the party that supports it, the socialist party, in parliament, introduced an amendment to the law on the control of foreign trade in defence and dual-use material which included the objective of restricting - and, where appropriate, prohibiting - cluster bombs which are particularly dangerous to civilian populations. i mean, there is a change of trend in my country: the manufacture, storage and export of these weapons were decided by previous governments. this government is immersed in the oslo process and is determined to phase it out to the point of a total ban on its manufacture, storage and export, so i think that was the important news it had to give.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, very quickly, as i know we are already behind on our agenda, i would like to make two essential points. the first is that i naturally come out of this debate with a very clear idea and a very clear conviction that this is indeed a subject which the european parliament is following very closely and it is a matter of concern to many of you. so naturally i will take that into account. as a second comment on this subject, i would remind you that the european union is also taking the lead in this process, perhaps not with the energy that many members would like, certainly with difficulties, but nevertheless with some optimism. we have already expressed the european union's concern about the humanitarian consequences of such weapons in the convention on certain conventional weapons, and we have already proposed negotiating a binding legal instrument to be adopted by the end of 2008 at the latest, and therefore probably not with the ambition that many of you would like. but the truth is that we are also taking decisive steps here. this is a process which i hope will bring together more and more political will, more enthusiasm and more efforts so that we can finally achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
member of the commission. mr president, i would just like to add one thing to what i said before. i can, of course, only speak on areas within the commission’s competence, and you know that this area is a particular competence of the member states. however, i can speak on the financial assistance to those affected. i can reconfirm what i said before, which is that we have already done our best to alleviate the problems caused by explosive remnants of war, including cluster munitions, in particular through our mine action strategies and the related horizontal budget line, which accounted for about one third of the funds spent in this domain. i can assure you that actions against mines and explosive remnants of war will continue to be carried out through the new geographical instruments, and are even being mainstreamed now – and this is new – into our external assistance strategies and programmes. some actions can also be funded under the new instrument for stability, so we now have more instruments on hand to address this major challenge, and will take clearly into account the strong position expressed by parliament in using these as effectively as possible, where necessary, because i totally share the objective that you have expressed.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say on this question that, as you know, the current european union solidarity fund was set up to respond to the major disasters of extraordinary proportions caused by the floods that struck central europe in the summer of 2002. in 2002, following a proposal from the european commission, the council adopted a regulation establishing the european union solidarity fund. article 14 of the regulation, known as the 'solidarity fund', provides that the council, on a proposal from the commission, is to review the regulation by 31 december 2006 at the latest. in 2005, the commission proposed that regulation 2012/2002 be replaced by a new regulation on the solidarity fund. the new proposal would, inter alia, extend the scope of the instrument to cover industrial and technological disasters, public health emergencies and acts of terrorism and reduce the thresholds used to classify a disaster as major. the exceptional regional criteria of the existing regulation would disappear, but in exceptional circumstances the commission could recognise that a major disaster has occurred. the european parliament delivered an opinion on this in may 2006 and, in 2006, the council discussed the commission proposal and parliament's opinion at the appropriate levels, although it did not reach agreement. in this context, regulation 2012/2002 continues to apply, and the commission has already proposed its mobilisation during 2007. as i had the opportunity to say here last month on a similar question, as far as the council is aware, in the case of disasters provided for in the regulation, its application has been effective. the european commission regularly produces reports detailing the operation of the solidarity fund.
the council's proposal has been perfectly clear. we are very far behind in this new regulation. the supplementary and specific question i put to the council is this: this summer we almost burned down the cradle of western civilization, which is classical greece, including the olympic stadiums. is the council waiting for the vatican to burn, for the prado palace to burn, for the palace of belém to burn, or can we hope that before next summer we will have a regulation that can deal with this kind of catastrophe?
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i would like to begin by underlining the extreme importance, timeliness and courage of this report. the two emergencies to which he refers deserve, each of them, attention and a political response that they certainly do not have now. while the situation regarding security and opium production in afghanistan is becoming increasingly worrying, the need to provide painkillers on a global scale is one of the biggest humanitarian emergencies of the day, though unfortunately also one of the most silenced. the rapporteur, mr cappato, has made a very difficult and therefore remarkable effort with this report, and i would like to reiterate once again the support of my group and my staff. as he himself has said on occasion, although the link between the two is not simple or necessarily immediate, it is our responsibility as policy makers to analyse complex realities in order to find complex solutions to complex problems. and that is exactly what this report does. as regards security in afghanistan, there is no doubt that it must be a priority if we are to carry out programmes of reconstruction and development with guarantees for the future. the problem, however, is that certain armed groups are benefiting from the lack of regulation of opium production. and we also know that there is an illegal opium cultivation and trafficking that accounts, today, for 40 percent of afghanistan's gross domestic product. in view of this situation, i think it is at least appropriate to study and take into account initiatives such as those of the senlis council, which propose to support a system of authorization for the cultivation of opium for medicinal purposes in afghanistan, the purpose of which would be, above all, the production of tranquilizers such as morphine and codeine, which could also be sold to other countries which currently have little or no access to these essential medicines, due to preferential trade agreements. it is a pity that this proposal does not have, for the time being and in the present terms, more explicit support from the commission and not even from the afghan government itself. but what is even more worrying is that the measures being considered as alternatives are, in many cases, chemical eradication, as the american authorities insist on time and again. such a move, if carried out, would provide the taliban with a new argument to defend their positions and would eventually, very likely, lead to farming communities ending up even in the insurgent camps. but it would also have very serious consequences in terms of health and the environment. it is obvious, from the outset, that the spraying by air, as is supposedly intended to be carried out in afghanistan, ensures that the contamination is spread to humans living in the sprayed areas and surrounding areas, as was already demonstrated at the beginning of the year when this practice was carried out by colombia to spray cocaine production on the border with ecuador, with the consequent complaint and denunciation to the hague by the latter. i am not an expert and it is clear that the chemical question is much more complex, but i think that by now we should have learned some of the disasters caused by napalm and depleted uranium. i think - and i hope - that we should not repeat this a third time.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr lechner, on his excellent report, which is balanced and measured. now, i cannot help thinking about the implications of the embargo and the embargoes at this time of night. in practice, in practical life, usually, the creditors are usually large institutions with a lot of economic strength and the debtors are usually people in a much weaker economic situation. specifically, one of the most beautiful poems in the spanish language is dedicated to the embargo of a poor unfortunate worker. it is true that if there are no seizures - if creditors have no possibility of recovering the credit - the poor will not be able to get the credit either. and i, as i think we are a little bored, i'm going to tell you an anecdote about one of the dictatorships we had in spain, which was that of general primo de rivera. he considered it an insult to the military profession that military assets could be seized. so, he banned the military from the embargo. consequently, banks stopped lending money to the military, and the military asked the general to allow them to be seized again. but this is just an anecdote. i think mr lechner has tried to strike a balance in the protection of the rights of debtors, but i have a few questions, and mr frattini will probably be sensitive to the consideration i want to make on this subject. i mean, at the moment of truth, the big debtors, these people who do big financial transactions and end up owing billions to thousands of people in a helpless situation, these big debtors don't usually have accounts in a bank in belgium, in brussels or in strasbourg, or even in london. they usually have them in tax havens. this is certainly not covered by the commission's green paper, but as i know that commissioner frattini is interested in this subject, i ask him: would it not be appropriate to think of some way of ensuring that these large international criminals who end up ruining thousands of families also have the possibility of having their assets seized? i mean, it is a consideration which, again, is outside the green paper, outside what we are dealing with tonight, but as i think the main issues have already been set out very clearly by previous speakers and by commissioner frattini himself, i think it is a consideration which we must address. i am sure commissioner frattini will have something to add to that. i have to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. i hope that the commission will soon present us with a legislative text to enable the crossborder credit market to continue to function.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank mr diamandouros for his report, and to acknowledge the excellent work carried out by commissioner wallström, and to congratulate mrs sbarbati on her successful report, which will serve as a guide for assessing the improvements we expect for 2007 and 2008. we welcome the content of the present report, which shows the good implementation and stability of the ombudsman's work and also shows the expansion of contacts with authorities and citizens. i am particularly pleased with the agreement with the present spanish government on the use of the co-official languages - basque, catalan and galician - since it will bring spanish citizens closer to their rights, without reducing the functionality of spanish, which will prove very useful in future contacts with third-country nationals. but there are also other worrisome aspects, as mr diamandouros himself pointed out: more than 75% of the complaints do not correspond to european competences but to national or regional ones. we therefore consider it most urgent to strengthen the communication strategy of the european network of ombudsmen so that this problem can be corrected. another problem is the decrease in cases of maladministration concluded by friendly agreement or by consensus. we urge the ombudsman to strengthen his know-how in order to regain his effectiveness in this area. flies are more likely to be caught with honey than vinegar. finally, i would just add that it would be ironic if the legitimate ambition of the present ombudsman to apply the code of administrative conduct led him to be more diligent outside his home than inside.
mr president, before proceeding to the vote on mr cappato's report, i would like to explain to the house that there is an error in the spanish version: in paragraph 1 (b), the second to last line, which says 'the launching of pilot projects', the english version, which says 'looking at the possibility', is the one that has to be followed.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr lehne has substantially set out the views of the members of the committee on legal affairs. he has done so on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i do so on behalf of the party of european socialists. the concern we have at the moment is, as mr lehne has said, that we are relying too much on a praetorian development, that is, a development through the case law of the court of justice. the case law of the court of justice fills in the gaps left by secondary law in the european union, but we do not have that secondary law. the treaties are very general provisions, which cover certain areas, give rise to different interpretations and do not at present facilitate the creation of the internal market. our proposals are twofold - as mr lehne has already said - firstly, to support the commission's offer to submit a proposal for a directive on the european private company, which would obviously help a great deal in establishing free movement within the european union, and secondly, to try to push ahead in the field of company law by putting forward a new directive, the 14th, which could eventually complete those provisions. i share mr lehne's concern that by failing to make provision for the transfer of company headquarters we are actually leaving a legal loophole, because mergers have a different scope and do not complete the whole picture. we hope that the commission will be able to include this type of activity in its work programme. firstly, i hope that during 2008 and, if possible, before 30 june, we will have this proposal for a directive on the table, the directive on the statute for a european private company, and secondly, it is to be hoped that the commission will not abandon the idea of further developing company law in areas such as the freedom of establishment and the freedom of companies to change their domicile. i shall conclude with this.
the author. i believe that there are three elements - at least three - which justify this urgency. firstly, as has already been said, the situation of the increasing deterioration of human rights. secondly, the record numbers of executions, not only in terms of numbers but also in terms of the brutality with which they are being carried out. today we have more executions than in the whole of 2007 244 in 2007 and 177 in 2006. and the third element is the persecution of human rights organizations, especially those defending women's rights. i believe that all this justifies not only this resolution but also the way in which the resolution is drafted, which calls on the united nations to put to the vote in its general assembly a resolution explicitly and unequivocally condemning the violation of fundamental rights in iran. it's something we've been asking for a long time. we do not understand the reluctance to do so and i hope that this resolution will at least help to change some of the minds.
author. - mr president, i too want to say that although the pakistani authorities are of course primarily responsible for resolving the situation, we must not forget that the european union and, above all, the member states, have a huge responsibility, at least to avoid making the situation worse. and this has to do with the equally incomprehensible practice, because it is incompatible with this desire to resolve the situation, of continuing to export or wanting to export arms to that country. just to mention three cases: the uk government authorised in 2006 the export of 15,000 rifles to the region, including pakistan; france continues to want to sell pakistan missiles and radars to build a fighter plane that it is allegedly developing with china; and germany has also been responsible for the export of significant amounts of ammunition, weapons and other military equipment. i think it is incompatible in that sense to want to resolve the situation in pakistan and at the same time to feed it with these policies. that is why i suggest and ask my colleagues to support the amendment in which we ask for the suspension of all exports of arms and military equipment until it is guaranteed that they will not be used to violate human rights.
author. - madam president, naturally i too would like to join in strongly condemning the killing of members of the peacekeeping forces. but at the same time i would also like to remind all those civilians who have been and are victims of the situation in darfur, and i would particularly like to mention the brutality with which certain attacks with a clear sexual connotation are being carried out and the serious violations from the point of view of the use of women in many areas, also from the sexual point of view. i believe that all this requires not only actions and statements, but a firm investigation that should be carried out not only by the people on the ground but also by the international criminal court. that is one of the fundamental elements of this debate. secondly, i would also like to remind you that we should be pleased that there is now permission - permission to call it what it is - from the government of sudan to accept unami troops, but at the same time we should also remember that on other occasions they have broken this commitment, they have broken this promise and therefore we should also be cautious. i think it is logical to continue to insist, while ensuring that, as mr pflüger said, the forces that are going to go are going to go with a broad mandate from the united nations, and not just in the interests of a particular country. thirdly, i think it is also essential and necessary to remember that all the political, financial and technical support must be made available to enable the mission to carry out the tasks it will have to face on the ground. you can't send a mission into the field without having assurances that it will be able to fulfill its mandate. and lastly, and also in a particularly significant way, i would like to point out - certainly going a little further than the resolution says - that it is urgent that the government of sudan demand and support the prosecutor general of the international criminal court, luis moreno-ocampo, in his request to arrest ahmed mohamed harun, who was minister for humanitarian affairs, precisely so that he can be held to account for the displacement of two million people in darfur and thus an international process can begin which should have started a long time ago.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, on behalf of my group, we would first of all like to congratulate mr schmitt on this report and also stress the importance of increasing the number of hours of physical education in schools. adequate time for proper physical activity is the best possible complement to the integral development of the person, both from the mental and the bodily perspective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the training of young people is not restricted to the minimum necessary. furthermore, it should be borne in mind that these ages are key to the acquisition of habits, so physical education becomes vital. i would also like to stress the need to introduce campaigns for children - and this is a request to the commission - campaigns and programmes for children and their parents to adopt healthy lifestyles which include physical activity and exclude practices such as smoking, which remains one of the major health hazards in europe. and finally, i think we have all remembered - all the speakers so far - to improve the training of physical education teachers, because it is ultimately up to them to make this programme a success.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteurs, mrs gutiérrez-cortines and mr prodi, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the other committees for their contribution to the first reading. the commission's proposal for a thematic soil protection strategy is the result of work begun in 1998 at the initiative of the german ministry of the environment. the results of long consultations with stakeholders and member states were to recognise that land is a valuable natural resource and that its degradation in europe is becoming a problem. since then, the commission has worked with stakeholders, in particular the parliament and the council, to understand and reach a consensus on soil protection issues. the parliament's resolution on the 2002 soil communication gave the commission important guidance on the direction to take in achieving soil protection in europe. in the conclusions adopted in mallorca in 2002, the european council asked the commission to propose a comprehensive and far-reaching approach to soil protection, including general principles, appropriate quantitative and qualitative targets and timetables for measuring and evaluating the measures envisaged. i should now like to address a number of specific points. i am very pleased that it is recognised that land degradation is a very serious problem that needs to be tackled. given the keen interest of this parliament, for example, in desertification, it is important to show that here in europe we are reaffirming our commitment to tackling the factors that create this problem at home as well as internationally. climate change and some improper land management practices are putting our lands at risk. the identification of the extent of degradation and the subsequent development of methods to ensure sustainable land use are direct applications of the knowledge-based approach which parliament rightly considers valuable. it is also a guarantee of greater focus of effort and more efficient use of resources to serve our priorities. businesses are entitled to expect member states to apply community legislation consistently. the commission's environmental impact assessment estimates that there are some 3.5 million sites in the european union that are likely to have been contaminated. of these, a percentage, perhaps 15%, are actually contaminated. it is therefore important that undertakings have confidence that similar approaches to the identification of contaminated sites will be adopted so that they can plan their investments. we also have to take into account that there is a direct link between climate change and soil. for example, according to recent research published in the prestigious international scientific journal nature, in the last 25 years in the united kingdom alone, the soil has released 13 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere each year, an amount equivalent to adding 5 million cars each year. moreover, the capacity of soil to absorb carbon and convert it into useful soil organic matter has not yet been fully exploited. in this context, let me sum up the main objectives of the action of measures proposed by the commission: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the policy, by creating a framework for sustainable land use and by taking measures at source, will prevent further degradation of land and preserve its vital social, environmental and economic functions. secondly, to gather the necessary information on the state of the soil in europe to enable us to make informed policy decisions and to focus efforts where the most serious degradation has occurred. thirdly, to restore degraded land wherever possible, on the basis of an analysis of the state of the soil to be carried out by the member states. restoration shall aim at achieving a quality level of land at least consistent with its current and intended use. fourthly, to establish minimum common rules for the whole of the european union in order to ensure a coherent approach between the member states in terms of soil protection. the common rules will bring transparency and avoid distortion of the internal market. the strategy and the directive aim to launch a long-term policy for soil protection in europe so that within a few years all member states have made significant progress in this field. i would like to draw your attention to some key aspects of the framework directive on soil protection: first, the text resulting from the codecision procedure must be clear and provide legal certainty to the parties affected by the legislative act. we should avoid introducing amendments which leave a legal vacuum, unnecessarily restricting the scope of the directive. secondly, the proposal already contains a high degree of subsidiarity and flexibility. i understand that some amendments are proposed to increase the degree of subsidiarity even further. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in all member states. this applies in particular to amendments concerning the programmes of measures in the priority areas identified in the directive. thirdly, in order to achieve a high level of environmental protection, it is necessary to agree on a consistent approach to be followed by all member states in the identification of contaminated sites. the proposed deletion of annex 2 would prevent us from achieving our objective. in conclusion, i should like to state at this stage that the commission will follow developments in the debate on its proposal in the council and in the european parliament and will take its position accordingly.
the rapporteur. - madam president, before i speak about the proposal which will be put to the vote tomorrow, i would like to thank the rapporteurs from all the political groups and, in particular, i would like to thank maruja sornosa of the socialist group and our friend mr prodi, who have really worked hand in hand and enriched the directive, as have the green group and many other members. the document to be voted on tomorrow is a document with numerous amendments which have been the result of an agreement and have therefore been enriched by the contribution of other political parties. it is a document, for the most part, consensual. and this is not common in an environmental policy which is going to generate, shall we say, a new european policy and open up a new road. this document is extremely novel because it responds to a new approach to directives. we were faced with the problem that out of 27 countries, only nine had legislation for soil protection. and this is a subject that we're going to have to address in the future. europe has developed asymmetrically and at the moment there are many countries which have already done their doctorate and others who are doing their baccalaureate in the field of soil policy. how can we achieve a policy of agreement, a common policy, with such great differences? that is the challenge we have faced. what was the solution? we have looked at the treaty and we have seen that article 249, when defining directives, says that directives are common objectives and, instead, implementation and enforcement can be left to the member states. and that is what has been done. articles 1 and 2 have been strengthened, up to 6 have been strengthened to make it clear what the common objectives are. i mean, we have the goal in sight. we know what the goal should be to which we have to go. and we have to recognize that sustainability is a process that has to have clear goals. but not all countries can keep up with the pace. those who have not walked before cannot be asked to do the same as others. we therefore ask that implementation be left to the member states, with full respect for subsidiarity, and that the fear of some countries - those which have already been through this - that their bureaucracy will be repeated is thus eliminated. those countries which have clear soil protection do not have to do it again. this policy of flexibility also applies to the recognition that given the climate and conditions of each country, they must be allowed to agree with their citizens to carry out these policies. so, for example, in article 8 we guarantee that farmers can agree with their member states on soil conservation and those who have already done so do not have to repeat the legislation. now, this means that at the same time we must ensure that there is a clear policy on contaminated soils and in that sense the health of the citizens is above all and the objectives of preserving health and having transparency to inform the citizens, this is clear. and why do i think it is important that there is a directive in the face of criticism that does not call for this? because, ladies and gentlemen, we must build europe on our strengths, we must go after the countries that have done things right. and if we do not legislate, we enter into uncertainty and insecurity. and insecurity and uncertainty for the market and for health is a weakness. let us build europe around strengths, not weaknesses. that's the way we should go. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and it is the responsibility of the member states to make it happen. and that is that freedom is responsibility. in a europe of 27 we must learn that environmental policy cannot be made by judicially enforcing it. we cannot rely on the prosecutors and the court of justice alone to enforce it. we must rely on common policy, on faith, on credibility and on the ability of countries to get on their feet and implement the best policies. that is why we have turned to good practice in large measure. another innovation in this directive is that it addresses climate change in relation to soil for the first time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of soil erosion. and there is something else to consider: europe and its landscape are the result of man's work, they are the result of farmers as gardeners of the landscape. we must bear in mind that the europe of the future must be made by the citizens and, therefore, we must, i repeat, set common objectives, but help them to follow a path which also guarantees health and a commitment to transparency. thank you very much and again, thank you to the political parties.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. thank you, madam president, and also thank you to commissioner dimas for his resolute push for this directive. we welcome the commission's proposal, since it is certainly intended to protect the soil and preserve its capacity to continue to develop its environmental, economic, social and cultural functions, all of which are essential for human activity. the commission has also proposed, as the commissioner has rightly said, a flexible regulation, ambitious in its objectives and not overly prescriptive in its content. within a common framework, of a minimum common denominator, member states will define their own level of intervention, allowing for a more efficient use of administrative capacities at national level. despite the exaggerated resistance of some sectors to this directive, it is clear that soil is a vital, essentially non-renewable resource and that it is undergoing increasing environmental pressure in which human action has a significant responsibility. it is estimated from the reports discussed here that the cost of soil degradation amounts to approximately eur 40 billion per year, costs borne by society in the form of damage to infrastructure, increased health care costs and many other elements. this directive is, of course, based on the precautionary principle and preventive action, on the principle that environmental damage must be rectified at its source and that the polluter pays. this regulation will help to reduce the cross-border effects of soil degradation, which also exist, and will help to ensure a level playing field in the internal market. i would like to stress this point, because the different obligations which may be imposed on economic operators under the different national soil protection regimes may lead to distortions of competition. in conclusion, the soil protection directive is a step forward which will allow for more transparent competition and protect areas of common interest such as water, food safety and human health.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in european legislation, important natural resources and resources (water, air, species, habitats of flora and fauna) have specific community legislation, whereas land as a resource does not. it is time to redress this imbalance and i therefore thank the commission for the proposal and i thank the rapporteur, mrs gutiérrez-cortines, for the work she has done. soil, as many of us have said, is a non-renewable and therefore limited natural resource which fulfils many important ecological and economic functions and is the basis for virtually all human activities. the involvement of the european institutional regulatory system in this area will undoubtedly serve as an incentive to improve the legislation that is being implemented in many countries, by framing it in a coherent framework and supported by regulation and, possibly, resources of european origin. as regards the immovability of the soil, which seems to be invoked by some to justify preferences for national or subsidiary treatment in relation to a european policy, the european commission's own communication already argues sufficiently for the need for a european-wide strategy, and some colleagues, such as mr calabuig rull, have mentioned it. there are several member states which are not very inclined to standardise soil protection at european level and we therefore believe that the approach which is intended to be given to both the strategy and the directive is the right one, in the sense that it is a flexible, ambitious and not overly prescriptive legal instrument. this makes it possible for each member state to adapt it to its needs and to its social and economic situation, since a framework and long-term objectives have been provided for. in conclusion, i believe that the methodological framework of the proposal for a directive, based on prevention, public awareness, information, the identification of priority degradation areas and inventories of contaminated land and programmes of measures and national rehabilitation strategies, corresponds to a coherent, effective and flexible approach to tackling the problem of soil degradation in europe, while respecting the diversity of national situations and options. i therefore ask this house, first of all, to say a resounding 'no' to the outright rejection of this proposal by some quarters and to support the compromise amendments which we have reached after long negotiations. perhaps this is not the directive we all want, but just because we are all a little against this directive, it may be useful for the future.
mr president, after the intervention of the vice-president of the commission and my colleague mrs berès, my intervention is almost superfluous. i was asked to draw up the report of the committee on legal affairs and, in agreement with my colleagues in the committee on economic affairs, we came to the conclusion that the urgency procedure requested by the commission - and which was contained in the second subparagraph of article 6 (2) - was unnecessary, because at the moment the cooperation between parliament and the commission - and the council too - is excellent. the report by the committee on legal affairs therefore calls for the deletion of that article and approves two other recitals, two other amendments to the recitals, which are designed to highlight the flexibility of the procedure. after the adoption of recitals 1 and 2 in committee, there was a negotiation between parliament and the commission, to which mrs wallström referred, and we have tabled a final amendment, amendment no 4, which replaces the current amendment no 2, which establishes a formula for cooperation between the three institutions. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to do so. i believe that at this stage this formula of compromise between parliament, the council and the commission can be used to solve problems without having to resort to the urgency procedure which the commission had proposed to us in the first place.
mr president, on behalf of the ppe-de group i would like to stress that, as regards the commission's proposals for the common fisheries policy, we are again faced with a number of issues which the commission is not following up as swiftly as it should. suffice it to say that we are several years behind schedule in achieving new regulation on technical measures in the atlantic, a key issue for fisheries management which we insist on having by 2008, as it would be the best possible contribution of the cfp to the objective of legislative simplification. we would also like the commission to start presenting precise guidelines on how it intends to apply the maximum sustainable yield model to community fisheries, in particular for multi-species fisheries, and we also believe that it would be important to present specific legislative proposals on the eco-labelling of fishery products, which will have a major impact on the traceability of fishery products and provide guarantees to prevent the consumption and sale of products from illegal fishing. finally, in view of the commission's announcement that it will withdraw the project in agreement with tanzania, i would like to convey to the commission the industry's request that all necessary efforts be made to continue negotiations with that country, which are essential if the tuna fleet is to be able to secure the fishing area in that part of africa through a set of agreements with adjacent exclusive economic zones.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank the commission. a work programme is not simply a statement of principles but rather an instrument for implementing concrete policies. however, the most humble attempt at implementation can be a jewel, and the jewels of this programme, in my view, are the initiatives that put the citizen at the centre. initiatives such as patient safety, the quality of health services or reconciliation of family and professional life, as mr barroso has just mentioned. we would have liked to have had this in so much detail in writing, within the work programme. perhaps the greatest gem, however, is the proposal for a directive to combat discrimination in all member states. we need this directive in this year of equal opportunities for all because it must make us see that discrimination is not only a social, moral and political mistake, but also a waste of human resources. the reform treaty says that the union must not only promote social cohesion but also non-discrimination and that is why the corresponding directives are needed, because all europeans must have the same levels of protection against discrimination. there can be no hierarchy of discrimination. a europe which tolerates all forms of discrimination cannot claim to be an example to anyone. however, i have a problem: the role of the european parliament in this chapter; it is only its opinion and it is a bit ironic that equality is promoted, but when it comes to the institutions all are equal, although some are more equal than others. i also regret that the introduction to this work programme makes little or no mention of discrimination and the integration of immigrants. we hope and ask the commission to fulfil its promise to this parliament that community action will cover all areas of discrimination.
mr president, we obviously welcome the fact that the citizen is at the heart of the european project, but i must point out that one of the major problems facing the union is the great ignorance of public opinion about it. i think any of us who give talks, lectures or conferences on the subject are firsthand witnesses of it. the other day, a media outlet in my country referred to your colleague, mrs ferrero-waldner, as the swiss commissioner. that said, there is a lack, year after year, of a specific and broad programme of dissemination of the european project to the public, which will gradually make the institutions and their functioning better and better known. i would also be grateful to the commission for an effort to define it more precisely and for a smoother communication with this parliament and the committee on culture on the european year of intercultural dialogue (2008), since the website has many limitations.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, the truth is that 2008 will be an important year, as the president of the commission has said, but a transitional year before the end of the mandate of the present commission. i think that if we can draw an operative conclusion, it is that the durão barroso commission, despite the difficult circumstances in which the european union has found itself, has clearly lived up to those circumstances, both in terms of its internal dimension - and here is the work programme - and in terms of its external projection. as coordinator of my group in the committee on foreign affairs, i am concerned about a number of events which are about to take place on the international scene, such as the election of the new president of the united states and its impact on the conflicts in central asia, the meeting with a new president of russia, the development of the neighbourhood policy and the accession negotiations, the assistance to a possible status of kosovo, the outcome of the annapolis conference in the middle east, the elections we all want in pakistan, also the olympic games in china after the communist party congress and the forthcoming european union-latin america summit in peru. but i would like to tell you, madam vice-president, to ask the president of the commission for the positive assessment of the commissioners responsible for external relations. i see that only mr rehn is here, and i would also like to extend my congratulations to mr mandelson, mr michel and, of course, mrs ferrero-waldner. the point here is that the external action of the european union should be visible and effective, and, madam vice-president, that you should be very careful in applying the provisions of the new treaty so as not to compromise the achievements and successes of the european union in foreign policy.
the next item is the joint debate on - the council declaration on the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis, and - the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft council decision on the full application of the provisions of the schengen acquis in the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic (11722/2007 - c6-0244/2007 - 2007/0810(cns)) (a6-0441/2007).
thank you very much, mrs belohorská. we are aware of the situation you describe and you know very well that we were the exceptional witnesses to that situation. in any case, we take note and if there is a need for correction, it will be corrected. the truth is that i do not know clearly to whom you are referring, who has spoken of czechoslovakia. i certainly do not think it was the presidency.
we are pleased to welcome to the official gallery a delegation of efta colleagues, chaired by mrs katrín júlíusdóttir, including colleagues from iceland, norway and liechtenstein, as well as observers from switzerland. this delegation is visiting our parliament on the occasion of the 29th meeting of the joint parliamentary committee on the european economic area, which will be held here in strasbourg on 14 and 15 november. i wish my colleagues every success in their work on the european economic area agreement and future prospects for the area, energy issues and climate change in relation to space, and in their discussions with commissioner borg on the european union's maritime policy, which are scheduled for the agenda of their debates. i am also glad that you are taking the opportunity to visit the european parliament during our partsession. thank you and welcome. (applause) i would like to thank
we continue the debate on the council statement on the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis and on the report by mr carlos coelho on the application of the schengen acquis in the czech republic, estonia, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the first euro-mediterranean ministerial meeting on migration will take place in santa eulália, in the algarve, portugal, on 18 and 19 november this year. put that way, it sounds like the most banal of advertisements, but it's not. we have managed to hold this high-level ministerial meeting and we have succeeded after this was set as a priority by our heads of state and government in november 2005, some two years ago, on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the barcelona process summit, which recognised the growing importance of migration issues within our euro-mediterranean partnership. later, as you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, in rabat, in tripoli, we had the opportunity to reaffirm our common political agenda. we have done so in a realistic and lucid way, in the council's view. today, on both sides of the mediterranean, there are considerable immigrant communities who play a very important role in our societies. we have a duty to give a new impetus to the partnership which can take advantage of the existence of these strong communities. the complexity and significance of migration issues require the attention of all parties involved, both the countries of origin, transit and destination, and at this first meeting in the algarve, the council believes that the debate should focus on the most pressing issues and only those, in a step-by-step approach to the issues. the main items on the agenda will be in the priority areas agreed at the tampere ministerial, namely immigration and development, legal immigration and the fight against illegal immigration, and will include such important areas as the framework for the issue of migrant remittances, the new micro-credit challenge, the opportunities we are creating in the european union and on both sides of the mediterranean for legal immigration, the essential issue of document security just mentioned here by mr frattini, on another occasion, the security of travel documents is a crucial point for the safe development of migration flows and the very important issue of return conditions when it comes to this. i think that the preparatory work carried out over the last few weeks has led to a positive conclusion, which bodes well for the debate to be held in the algarve. there is a very clear determination on both sides to find positive solutions, to find concrete measures, to agree on these concrete measures and to implement them. the council therefore expresses its conviction before the european parliament that the meeting will be able to agree on concrete measures which will enable us to take our partnership forward. we hope that this effort will culminate in a final statement. this final declaration has a careful preparation process that will culminate in the algarve with its ministerial approval. this declaration will clearly define the main priorities and will also determine the concrete projects to be implemented in the short term. we therefore believe that this initiative is developing in a positive framework and will be, in itself, a mobilizing and significant moment in our euro-mediterranean relationship. that is the council's duty, and that is also the outcome we hope for, which is entirely within our reach.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, improving migration management in the mediterranean region will certainly be one of the priorities for the eu and its euromed partners. too many people are drowning, and we are not benefiting sufficiently from the potential that well-managed migration can bring. at the summit in 2005, which was just mentioned, the euromed heads of state and government adopted a work programme that set goals for cooperation on migration, social integration, justice and security. now, thanks to the excellent initiative taken by the portuguese presidency, ministers responsible for migration will have the opportunity to take the next steps in making the cooperation more concrete. it promises to be a big milestone. i welcome the presidency’s emphasis on concrete operational outcomes from the conference, because our citizens want to see very concrete results. the three themes for this meeting are well balanced and fully in line with the global approach. first of all, legal migration: we live in a world of increasing mobility, and well-managed migration is in the interests of all partners. the european union needs migration in full respect of the law. the need for workers in many member states of the eu is already evident, for example, in agriculture, health care and tourism. however, the european union needs to be able to manage and integrate these migrants. we need to match skills better than in the past and we have to prepare migrants for their life in the eu and their eventual return if their migration is temporary or circular in nature. no migratory strategy is possible unless a european policy towards integrating migrants who live and work in the eu is in full respect of the law. we will be discussing how to use the european integration fund that, for the first time, is available in the eu, thanks to a proposal made a year and a half ago by the commission and endorsed by the council and this parliament. we need to make europe more attractive to legal migrants. our recent proposal for a european ‘blue card’ for highly skilled migrants is the first example and relevant to the euromed context. next year’s legislative initiatives for unskilled and seasonal migrants and remunerated trainees will follow. the proposals to launch discussions on these matters with our euromed partners seem to me logical and timely. the second point is migration and development. in order to be successful in managing migration, we must also address the main roots of migration, such as economic disparity, lack of career opportunities, instability, poor governance etc. good cooperation with partner countries and detailed knowledge of the situation on the ground in terms of labour needs, skilled shortages and capacity-building requirements are essential to this effort. that is why ministers will discuss with the commission the concrete proposals on migrant remittances and how they could be made more productive for development – a debate that is to be welcomed. the third area of discussion is illegal migration, because to be comprehensive we must also tackle illegal migration and protect european external borders. our euromed partners are countries of destination, transit and origin. we should aim to establish cooperation to prevent people drowning at sea. at the euromed conference we will be talking with ministers about cooperation and a possible new role for frontex in search and rescue activities, not only in patrolling and the return of illegal migrants. in doing so, we need to ensure that we respect our obligations when it comes to international protection and human rights. we would support a development whereby frontex becomes a tool of support for third countries in their efforts to better manage migration and control their borders by fully respecting international obligations. we are looking forward to this ministerial meeting. migration is a subject of vital interest to us all, and that raises strong passions at member state and community level. it is no different in our partner countries. however, working together is the only way to move forward. i would say cooperation alone is no longer sufficient. we need partnership based on shared goals and on equality of all partners. we need political packages, including measures to improve both the movement of honest people and respect of national and european laws, and to increase local growth rates in the origin countries. finally, i believe that the ministers will be successful in identifying concrete areas for cooperation. the commission stands ready to support the implementation process, including in financial terms. we are committed to supporting such actions through the meda programme, as well as the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument and the new thematic programmes.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i very much welcome this meeting with the mediterranean partners. i would have preferred that the foreign ministers were also present, as they were at the euro-african meeting in rabat. why would you do that? to underline the central place that immigration should occupy in relations with the countries of the southern mediterranean. in fact, these are neighbouring countries from which we are separated by a very high income gap. many of the nationals of these countries are already working on the north bank and their remittances are, as has been said, a basic factor in development. they are experiencing a high growth in population seeking a better life in europe. we suffer from illegal immigration from these countries, which are also transit countries for sub-saharan migrants. for all these reasons, the integration of residents, the immigration-development connection and illegal immigration are transcendental issues. the algarve meeting is therefore very busy. we have recently dealt with the issue of migration in this parliament. i am referring to the klich and moreno reports. i hope you'll take them into account in your work. i want to highlight three ideas and that's it. firstly, the need for these countries of the south to cooperate closely in controlling flows and the desirability of encouraging them with what i would call 'positive conditionality'. with political will, the phenomenon of immigration is more manageable. if a neighbouring country really decides to cooperate, results are produced. secondly, illegal immigration is still a very topical issue. we must prevent the flow of illegal migrants, who are also risking their lives and include even children, all of which are the result of the activities of unscrupulous traffickers. the mediterranean countries must be asked to sign and ratify the two protocols to the united nations convention against organized crime which relate to trafficking in human beings. thirdly, i reiterate the need to conclude readmission agreements. they have already done it with russia, with ukraine, with moldova, so why not with morocco after all these years? what about algeria? mr president, i wish the euromed meeting every success. i hope that they will reach concrete commitments and firm agreements which are actually being fulfilled and not just a juxtaposition of wishes on both sides which are then not followed up in practice.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, scientists believe that climate change caused the first major migration from africa to europe almost two million years ago. in our era, although climate change may have an impact, poverty and lack of freedom and opportunities are still the main reasons that lead many migrants to risk their lives to improve their lives on our continent. the challenge for europeans is to ensure that migration becomes a real factor in development, both for the countries of origin and for the countries of destination, and that development in turn contributes to the reduction of illegal immigration. this requires joint action with the countries of origin and transit to ensure genuine mobility of workers with rights and obligations, not slaves. i would therefore like to stress that dialogue, cooperation and solidarity are necessary to build a space of coexistence between the two shores of the mediterranean. in this context, we welcome the holding of this euromed summit, which follows the line of the ministerial conferences held in rabat and tripoli. it is essential to institutionalize the dialogue between countries of origin and transit and the european states of destination of immigration, with the aim of promoting the basis of a genuine development-based partnership. ladies and gentlemen, let me focus on different avenues that could be explored at the summit. immigrants must enter and work legally in europe. in this respect, initiatives such as the blue card directive are a necessary step, but not sufficient. it should be supplemented by a directive applying to the least qualified workers and be accompanied by measures to promote circular migration, a true circular migration which prevents brain drain and allows returning migrants to develop a vital project in their country when they find the necessary social and economic conditions for it. the euro-mediterranean area must become an area of prosperity, freedom and development. we must continue to explore, as spain is doing with several countries in the region, the way of recruitment at home and training for these workers by setting up workshops and vocational training schools in these countries. ladies and gentlemen, we are sending a clear message through information campaigns about the possibilities of emigrating and working legally in europe, while warning of the useless risk of clandestine emigration, preventing thousands of young people from falling into the hands of the mafias and risking their lives by climbing on the cayucos or pateras. finally, i would ask this house to pay particular attention at the summit to the most vulnerable migrants, women and children, especially unaccompanied minors.
madam president, the president of the french republic has spoken today in this chamber of the need for dialogue and debate. i think that is what we have all learned during the reflection period, as the vice-president, mrs wallström, said. but to debate, to dialogue, you have to have instruments. and today, an important, essential instrument - not the only one - is the political parties. i believe that political parties, at european level as well as at national level, form the will of the community. that must also be their role through the representative institutions in europe. to talk about political parties at european level without talking about sources of funding is a flatus vocis. we must see how these political parties, which are so necessary to form this community will, are financed. i think that the important thing in the case of political parties at european level - and also at national level, but at european level is what we are interested in here - is that this funding is responsible funding, it is clear and it is transparent. that is what taxpayers care about - that their money is well spent and that there are institutions that are accountable for the good use of their money. because i believe that the citizens of europe, who may have doubts, who may have hesitations about the direction europe should take, none of them doubt that their destiny lies in europe. even those who are most opposed to european ideas in this house always say that they are europeans, that they are not against europe. i'll see you then. for that - and i return to the beginning of my speech, to mr sarkozy's speech - debate is necessary, and in order to debate it is necessary to create the instruments that are useful for organising that debate. i therefore welcome mr leinen's report, which contains the commission's proposal, and i also welcome, mr president-in-office of the council, my good friend mr lobo antunes, the proposal you have put to us. the european people's party will not discuss the quorum. if we are to divide the regulation in two to find a solution that suits everyone, then so be it! you have our support.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, may i begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr leinen, who is one of the fathers of this regulation, a tireless defender of political parties and with whom i have shared some of the struggles to reach, shall we say, agreements. ladies and gentlemen, this proposal could not and cannot be the subject of a battle between the legal services of the community institutions. we must reach an agreement as soon as possible, because if we do not, the only victims of this conflict will be the political parties, whose role is fundamental in bringing the union closer to the citizens and encouraging their political participation so that they feel they are protagonists of a common destiny and a common political project. these parties also take on the transnational dimension of the political process of integration of the union. the european parliament is demonstrating its flexibility and capacity to work with this report. in no case can this house be accused of failing to cooperate in reaching an agreement at first reading before the end of 2007. i would like to highlight three ideas, three fundamental improvements in this project which we welcome very much and which guarantees the development of parties and foundations. firstly, the essential role of european political parties in elections to the european parliament, as reflected in the possibility of using the financial allocation for european electoral campaigns. secondly, independence in the management of european political parties with the transfer of annual reserves and the possibility of setting up reserves from own resources for several years. thirdly and lastly, the promotion of political foundations at european level complements the activity of european political parties. the foundations are an essential instrument for extending the activities of political parties and strengthening the link with citizens and will play an important role in providing information, debate and political training.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the evolution of the euro exchange rate naturally affects the relative price of european tourism products for consumers from third countries. although the euro exchange rate is not a political instrument but is freely formed on the foreign exchange market, the impact of the recent appreciation of the euro against the dollar on tourism should be considered in a differentiated way. firstly, fluctuations in the euro exchange rate have only a very small impact on tourist flows within the european union. according to available data, around 70% of the revenue generated by crossborder tourism in the european union is generated by tourists from other eu member states. secondly, we should not focus solely on the euro versus dollar exchange rate. calculations of the effective exchange rate of the euro show that the overall trend is much smoother. the appreciation against the chinese yuan, for example, was much lower this year. nevertheless, the total revenue attributable to tourists from non-eu countries only slightly doubled between 1995 and 2005, while the revenue attributable to tourists from china increased by 12 times. the commission is aware that price is an important competitive factor. the commission's vision of the future of european tourism, as set out in the recently adopted communication, is not based on low costs but rather on high quality. we are convinced that europe will remain the world's number one destination even with a strong euro, if europe makes the right use of its advantages: its historical heritage, its beautiful nature, its geographical concentration of attractive places and its reputation for high service levels.
madam president, the commissioner's latest statements are in contradiction with reality. what is happening at the moment is that a large part of intra-european tourism is going to countries outside the european area - caribbean countries, third world countries, far eastern countries, african countries - as a consequence, in large part, of this rise in prices, of the increase in the value of the european currency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's tourism sector is not left behind. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he thinks that the commission can encourage some kind of european policy to counteract this obvious tendency towards the loss of competitiveness of european tourism.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the committee on petitions is a remarkable source of information on the problems and complaints of citizens in european affairs. they cover a wide range of policy areas, although very often they relate to spatial planning and environmental issues, they concern virtually all member states and their reach reach reaches broad sections of civil society. from the individual citizen to the multinational non-governmental organisations. i think your rapporteur rightly underlines the importance of the whole project represented by the more than 1,000 reports you receive each year. there are three aspects of the report and the resolution which i would like to mention. the first is the recent development of commission visits to the site of the problem, which can have a significant impact on the media and will undoubtedly increase the visibility of your work. these missions, in addition to their coverage by the press and the media, also provide a very detailed report, which is, in my opinion, of a high quality. i believe that these are important records of your activities and that they are definitely worthy of wide publicity. those of you who had the opportunity to listen to the radio programmes last week on the activities of the committee on petitions will understand how important it is to receive the petitioners in person, in the presence of all the necessary experts. it is a major investment of time and resources and i am sure it is one of those that pays off. the second point i would like to make is that it has always been one of the most popular in these discussions. the case of coexistence or even overlap of a report and a complaint which may or may not lead to an infringement procedure. the report shows that at least in 2006 the commission again did not keep parliament as informed as it would have liked. you will have foreseen that i will reply to this point by referring to our recent communication on the implementation of community law entitled 'a europe of results'. in this communication there are commitments to transparency, prioritisation, modernisation, better cooperation with national authorities and everything you would want in these overlapping cases. but we're not stopping here. we have already begun to work on a policy document which will put all this into practice in the environmental sector, which, as i understand from your report, is one of the areas you are most concerned about. the third and last point i would like to make is more about the future. i would like to reassure you that we intend to have the best possible cooperation between the commission and parliament. this cooperation is mutually beneficial. systematic cooperation leads to better information exchange and therefore to an improvement in the level of service provision for our citizens in all areas. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank, first of all, commissioner dimas for his comments, his reflections, and allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin - as it could not be otherwise - by thanking all those who have made this report possible, from the staff of the secretariat to all the colleagues who have taken part in the committee discussions and who have enriched this report by introducing amendments to improve it. to all of them, thank you very much. ladies and gentlemen, i am submitting this report in accordance with rule 192 of the rules of procedure of the committee on petitions for 2006. this report summarises the main elements of the committee on petitions' work during the past year. it is a question of the quality of the work, and i would like to stress that the commission is not only responsible for the quality of the work, but also for the quality of the work. the committee on petitions is the committee closest to the citizen of all the committees of our parliament. citizens can approach the committee individually or collectively and the committee itself tries to provide petitioners with the most appropriate solutions, ensuring that petitions are handled in a transparent and efficient manner and that citizens get understandable answers to the issues raised. as set out in articles 21 and 194 of the treaty on european union, the right to petition is an important element of european citizenship, since it enables any citizen of the european union, and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state, to address the european parliament here, in relation to matters falling within the sphere of activities of the european union. i would therefore like to point out, and i am positive, that the statistics show, once again, a constant number of requests. for example, last year, 2005, there were 1 032, and 1 016 in 2006. approximately one third were not admitted to the proceedings and it should be noted that the petitioners' main concerns remain, fundamentally, environmental and the free movement of goods, persons and capital. petitions provide an important picture of the implementation of european legislation and its impact on citizens. through their petitions, european citizens point out the shortcomings and difficulties in the transposition and implementation process and are in an ideal position to monitor the implementation of community legislation at national level. the proportion of petitions not admissible also indicates a continuing need to increase public awareness and better inform european citizens about european union legislation and policies, as well as their legitimate right to petition the european parliament. and to achieve that objective, to achieve that objective, it is necessary to make a joint effort at the level of this european institution, but also at the national level, of the different national institutions of each country of the european union. i would also point out, in relation to the european commission, that the committee on petitions relies on the expertise of the european commission to investigate possible breaches of community law that petitions have brought to light. the recommendations of the european commission remain fundamental in defining the most appropriate response to the problems of the petitioners. however, the committee on petitions has continued to encourage, and we continue to encourage, the european commission to avoid non-personalised and sometimes quite general responses based on a strict interpretation of its powers and on information provided by the member states. the committee on petitions has continued to stress the need for petition assessments to focus more on the real problems of citizens and to ask the european commission to carry out independent investigations which will allow some issues to be raised in a more coherent way. i also wanted to make it clear that the committee on petitions, in its dialogue with the european commission, has not failed to stress the importance of petitions in achieving the common objective of bringing europe closer to its citizens. it should also be noted that the committee on petitions has had a constructive relationship, in dialogue with the european ombudsman, of mutual respect, one might say, of mutual respect for powers and prerogatives, and has submitted two reports.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, mr iturgaiz, thank you for this excellent report. first, i would ask the president to convey the deep concern of the members of the entire committee on petitions at the total lack of human resources in the secretariat of the committee on petitions. and i would like to take this concern to the bureau of parliament, which has the responsibility of providing sufficient resources to do this very important job of keeping communication with the citizens of the european union flowing. secondly, i would like to take advantage of the fact that commissioner dimas is here with us and, since a large part of the petitions are environmental and since many of these petitions come from spain, i would like to see how we can improve the way in which these petitions are dealt with. firstly, as guardian of the treaty, the european commission is obviously not fulfilling its role when it does not act quickly enough in response to many requests. we often reach a situation where we act in articulo mortis, when it is too late to consider an infringement procedure. then, as some colleagues have said, we have to look at the information provided by the petitioners. there are too many cases, such as some cases in spain - open-cast mines or ski resorts in full natura 2000 areas - where there has been no clear response to the request and the data have not even been seriously examined. in other petitions, however, the european commission has acted in an exemplary manner, for example in the case of the rospuda valley in poland. but we are concerned that the commission, as i said before, is coming too late to many cases where there is also a flagrant breach of environmental law. for example, in the case of road 501 in the community of madrid, where infringement proceedings are initiated when the works are already completed. we are also concerned about the implementation of the environmental impact assessment directive and also the strategic assessment directive, which is not being implemented correctly in many countries and in particular in spain, where projects are being scrapped so as not to have to apply the directive. and finally, the implementation of the water framework directive is being very partial and, in some cases of large urban areas in spain where there are mandatory reports against the spanish government itself, the european commission refuses to act in a precautionary manner.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, one of the most unenforced directives is indeed the directive on environmental assessments, which are mandatory for all types of construction and projects. the problem we have is that we are sometimes late in responding to the requests of european citizens, and when we arrive the damage has already been done in an irreversible way. in spain we have had very negative consequences along the coast, very aggressive urbanisation, and right now we have a regasification project in the heart of the estuary of el ferrol, of great community interest, of the natura 2000 network, and it has no environmental impact study. it is the only regasificadora in spain that will not have an environmental impact study, creating a problem of insecurity and violating clear directives. the response we will have to give, therefore, among all, is an acceleration in the answers so that the citizens understand that effectively their rights are not violated.
mr president, in congratulating the rapporteur, mr cornillet, and the commissioner on their proposal and their speech, and in feeling represented by the spokesman for my group, mr hutchinson, at this hour of the night, i shall sum up my speech by saving you, mr commissioner, a minute, which i give to you. by the way, mr borrell told me that commissioner michel was splendid at the lisbon meeting last weekend. mr. president, i'll save you a minute, please.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, globalisation is in europe's interest; europe must promote globalisation. we are facing a still slow but irreversible dismantling of the world's frontiers, which has been able to lift more than 400 million people out of poverty in less than 20 years, and for the first time in 2007, china will be the country, the region of the world, which will contribute more to the growth of the world economy, china, not the european union, ladies and gentlemen! that means that, ultimately, globalization is a challenge, but it's also a great opportunity. it is a challenge in the sense - and we have an obligation to explain this to the european citizens - that openness means more growth, more welfare and more jobs. what worries me again is to hear the word 'protect' in this house. protectionism is the denial of globalisation and the denial of the european union. protecting citizens is not necessary when citizens are the protagonists of their own economic growth and well-being. we must give back this capacity to the citizens and therefore we must also exercise self-criticism in the european union. because we are not doing our homework in the european union when we have insufficient growth, when we also have a share of responsibility in the crisis of the world financial markets and, in short, when we do not do all that we have to do at home, in our own home, to push that economic growth on the small and medium-sized enterprises to create more jobs, because we need a lot more jobs that will come from that opening up. the lisbon agenda is really the mark: completing the internal market, cleaning up public finances, reforming, modernising our labour market, committing to environmental reform, renewable energy and, in short, opening up europe is really about making more social cohesion in europe.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is very appropriate that the debate on globalisation has taken place under the portuguese presidency, because portugal is a country whose flag is the globe, because the portuguese were in the vanguard when europeans started globalisation, because globalisation is not a plague that falls on us. europeans, starting from the renaissance -- and we were less developed than the chinese and indians -- we started the process of globalization and that's how we see ourselves in the rest of the world. now, with the lisbon treaty, we are going to be pioneers also in what i would call post-imperial globalisation. we are not going to conquer new continents; what we are doing is to give a response in which we voluntarily unite values between states and citizens and we can be an example in the face of the globalization that is most needed, which is political and social globalization. because we have been talking about uncontrolled and unbridled financial globalisation, even though, for example, we have a european at the head of the international monetary fund. in the wto we are the first bloc and we have a specific responsibility. what's missing? what is missing is precisely that we are able to find answers in the globalised world that respond to that. and, in particular, there are two very important elements of challenge where we have to be very active: not only in the field of trade and in the field of technological development, it is in the universal defence of human rights, especially the rights of workers - and there is the international labour organization - and then there is also the necessary negotiation and the necessary policy to deal with climate change. in any case, madam president - and i conclude with this - i believe that europeans have no right to take a pessimistic view of globalisation. we've looked for it, and now we have to come up with innovative answers.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in pakistan.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the european union has been following with great concern the recent developments in pakistan, in particular those which led to the declaration of a state of emergency in that country on 3 december and, consequently, to widespread social unrest and a number of arrests, in particular the arrest of the 'chief of justice', who is currently under house arrest. there is no doubt that there has been a serious setback in the structure of the rule of law and the democratic process in pakistan which constitutes, i would say, a coup de grâce to the hopes of the pakistani people in the first place and of the international community in general in terms of strengthening the legitimacy of democratic institutions in pakistan. that is why the presidency issued a statement on behalf of the union on 6 november expressing our deep concern at the imposition of the state of emergency and the suspension of the pakistani constitution and fundamental freedoms. on 4 november, two days earlier, the heads of mission in islamabad, but also the high representative javier solana, had already expressed their concern at the course of events. our words, the words of the union, thus joined those of so many others, reiterating the importance of restoring the constitution and civil order, guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary, freedom of the media, the release of all political prisoners, journalists and human rights defenders, and demanding that the necessary conditions be created for the legislative elections to take place as planned, that is, in january 2008. we have no doubt that only in an environment of full democratic credibility can the stability and development of any nation be guaranteed. we are gravely concerned by reports of numerous arrests, the boycott of freedom of information, the repression of citizens' indispensable freedom of expression and attacks on professional classes such as judges and lawyers, journalists and human rights activists. however, at the same time, we cannot but make a strong appeal to everyone to exercise the utmost restraint and to join forces in the process of identifying a democratic and peaceful solution to the present crisis that will allow a rapid return to normalcy. while recognising the challenges pakistan currently faces in its security situation and the sacrifices and efforts made by the pakistani people in the fight against extremism and terrorism, the union firmly believes that the solution to these challenges cannot be achieved by disrupting the democratic process. we must not, however, fail to recognize the ally we have always been able to count on in the fight against extremism and terrorism. it is therefore important to keep it engaged in the fight against this global threat, in which international cooperation is an indispensable instrument. the union hopes that the current climate of uncertainty will be resolved quickly and peacefully and calls on president muscharraf to honour his commitment to remove his military uniform and to relinquish his post as army chief.
member of the commission. mr president, pakistan is on the agenda of this plenary for the third time within a few months. this bears witness to the very difficult transition the country is currently going through. the imposition of emergency law by president musharraf on 3 november in his capacity as chief of army staff has sent a deeply worrying signal to europe and the wider world and has damaged the course of democracy in pakistan. before the emergency was imposed we had witnessed some encouraging developments, with hope for a more inclusive political process and stronger democratic institutions, but regrettably this has now been put in question and today we ask ourselves whether this situation is still reversible or whether it is not too late to restore confidence and conditions in advance of the parliamentary elections. president musharraf, in his televised address on the night of 3 november, told us that he was suspending the constitution because of threats to the nation due to a visible ascendancy in the activities and incidence of terrorist attacks. there is no doubt that pakistan is currently facing a very serious threat of religious extremism and violence as recent events in the north-western frontier province and the attack on ms bhutto’s convoy on 18 october in karachi have clearly demonstrated. but what we are also witnessing now is the arrest of thousands of lawyers, journalists, political party workers and human rights activists, including such distinguished persons as ms asma jahangir, the chair of the human rights commission of pakistan, or mr aitzaz ahsan, president of the supreme court bar association. these are people who stand for an open and tolerant pakistan. they are not terrorists and it is wrong to detain them. they should be set free immediately. i would regard the drastic action taken against pakistan’s judiciary as particularly serious. rule of law is at the heart of any democratic process and the functioning democratic system cannot be sustained without an independent judiciary. the statement by the presidency, just mentioned also by our president on behalf of the eu, is therefore very clear, and this remains our position. last sunday president musharraf announced at a press conference that he hopes parliamentary elections can be held in pakistan by 9 january 2008. this would be a step in the right direction but there are a lot of remaining problems. when can we expect the state of emergency to end? how can we have free and fair elections when print and electronic media are censored, other civil rights and liberties suspended and the independence of the judiciary has been undermined? how will parties be able to campaign when freedom of assembly is curtailed and party leaders like benazir bhutto are kept under house arrest? these issues are not at all clear at this stage. to end this uncertainty it is of fundamental importance that a firm date for elections should be announced as soon as possible, along with a clear timeframe for ending the emergency. for these elections to have any chance of being at all democratic and transparent, it will be essential for all restrictions on political rights and fundamental freedoms to be lifted. and, as things stand, at present it seems it will not be possible to deploy an election observation mission. certain minimum conditions laid down in the commission communication on eu election assistance and observation for the holding of democratic elections are not met. however, if the emergency rule was lifted rather quickly and conditions were significantly improved soon, i might yet be able to review the situation. in any case i have made the necessary preparations for possible deployment of an eu election observation mission to pakistan should the conditions noticeably change for the better quickly. but, as i say, i am very much concerned as to whether this is likely to happen. there have been calls to suspend or review our aid to pakistan, and some eu member states have taken steps or are considering some action in this respect. the european commission’s support to pakistan focuses, i would like to remind you, on key issues such as poverty reduction and education, including in the north-west frontier province and baluchistan, which are the most disadvantaged provinces in pakistan. therefore, i think we will need to consider how best to proceed but, given the nature of this assistance, i think we have to reflect very carefully on that.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, the truth is that we are facing a very worrying situation: suspension of constitutional guarantees, state of emergency, detention of numerous members of civil society, lawyers such as the president of the supreme court bar association, mr ahsan, opponents, house arrest of the opposition leader, mrs bhutto. what can be done about this? we have just seen how the united states under-secretary of state, mr negroponte, is about to visit pakistan and we have seen how one member state, the united kingdom, has joined the united nations in calling for the president to resign from the military command within ten days and lift the state of emergency. what can we as the european union do? i think that, first of all, we must conduct ourselves with the utmost caution. i think the representative of the presidency has rightly pointed out that pakistan is a key partner in the fight against terrorism and, moreover, a nuclear weapon state. i therefore believe that on the one hand the european union should call on the government, as far as possible, because we must not forget that terrorism is playing and playing strong in pakistan, to somehow restore order and stability and constitutional rights and freedoms and to proceed to the release of the illegally detained persons. and on the other hand, madam commissioner, i would ask you to mobilise all your capacity and all your efforts, which are many - we already know that - to ensure that free and fair elections can be held and, on the basis of the guarantees you have indicated in your speech, that the european union can be present and can accompany that process in pakistan, which is of the utmost importance for the stability of the region and for the whole of the region's relations with the european union. we therefore have great confidence in your capacity, madam commissioner, great confidence in your diplomatic action, great confidence in your efforts and we hope that they can really bear fruit in a success that will enable the european union to accompany this electoral process.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the european parliament on the timing of this debate, which is absolutely timely, given the situation in pakistan and also in view of the cooperation we have had with that country, which is so important in the fight against extremism and terrorism. pakistan is not a country to which we can remain indifferent, and we will not. it is also clear from this debate that the three institutions, parliament, the council and the commission, share the same immediate and fundamental objectives, namely the speedy and complete restoration of the rule of law and democratic freedoms in pakistan and the holding of free and democratic elections. this is the objective which unites us and for which we must all, the three institutions certainly, work within the limits of our respective powers and competences. i would also like to say that as the presidency we also understand, as the commissioner has said here, that any measures which might lead to a possible suspension of cooperation, affecting a population which is already a population full of needs, must be looked at carefully and must be analysed carefully. the people of pakistan have suffered enough and enough that they may eventually suffer more. so we must also look at this question with some caution if it should ever come up. in any case, our objectives are clear and defined for the time being, and i can assure you that the presidency and the council will take all the initiatives and measures they deem appropriate as the situation evolves.
member of the commission. mr president, i think it has been shown very clearly that we all feel that what has happened is very difficult to understand. it is very serious. we are all concerned, because the imposition of emergency rule has greatly endangered the strengthening of democratic institutions and the building of a more inclusive democratic process. it is therefore of fundamental importance that civil and political rights are fully restored, media restrictions withdrawn and essential improvements made to the framework and conditions for elections. stability and development can only be achieved with democracy and the rule of law. we therefore have to reflect further on the question of a possible election observation mission. as i said, we might be able to send a smaller team of advisers to follow the process under the current circumstances. if not, as i said, the state of emergency would have to be lifted very quickly and civil liberties restored. with regard to aid, let me say that we had already substantially increased our aid to pakistan, particularly in the fields of education and rural development. therefore, as i said before, i think at this stage we must sit back, wait for a moment, and judge very carefully. of course we should not endanger the poor people in pakistan, but we have to go about things in the right way.
in order to close the debate, seven motions for resolutions have been tabled, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 november 2007. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on - the oral question to the council on the strategy of the council for the bali conference on climate change (cop 13 and cop/mop 3) by guido sacconi, on behalf of the temporary committee on climate change (o-0057/2007 - b6-0379/2007), and - the oral question to the commission on the strategy of the council for the bali conference on climate change (cop 13 and cop/mop 3) by guido sacconi, on behalf of the temporary committee on climate change (o-0058/2007 - b6-0380/2007).
madam president, an average per capita emissions target has been proposed for the whole world, but beware, what may be socially just may end up being ecologically impossible. we need to integrate countries like china and india, we need to integrate equity into environmental goals. but the convergence of the north and the south must be rapid and very low-emission if it is to be effective and not a sham. at the same time, we should consider fiscal and trade measures to curb trade in highly polluting products and trade in products that have been produced with unclean technology. this external climate protection could ensure a european union response to the growth of emissions in our own products coming from countries in the south and this money could be collected and then invested in clean technologies and in the south.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate of undeniable importance and one that we have been having regularly here in the european parliament. i remember that throughout my attendance at these monthly sessions, the issue of climate change and the preparation of the european union for the bali conference has been a recurring theme. this shows the importance that this parliament rightly attaches to the subject, and this morning, in connection with our debate on globalisation, the question of climate change was again on the table. i have already mentioned in my opening speech the six main objectives with which the european union left for the bali conference. they are clear, defined, i assume well understood and well supported, and naturally our aim will be to achieve them all. but i have also made it quite clear that this is a difficult, complex, politically delicate process, but of course we will do everything we can to ensure that, as i say, we can reach a conclusion. some of the honourable members expressed the view that perhaps the union was not as leading in this process as it often says itself. it is an opinion which i cannot share, because if there is a bloc, if there is an organisation, if there is an entity which has in practice shown that it has ambitious goals, that it is seeking to go further, that it is showing real concern for a problem affecting our citizens, i assume that that entity is the european union. we have set ourselves emissions reduction targets that are unmatched and unmatched anywhere in the world and we have also made significant efforts in the area of energy saving, in the area of investments in renewable energy and so on. we must therefore take pride in our efforts, we must take pride in our work and we must not, in our opinion, diminish it. finally, i would also like to say that i take note of the recommendations and suggestions made in the hassi resolution. some of these suggestions have been mentioned here by mrs elisa ferreira and therefore the council will also take note of these recommendations.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the speakers in today’s debate for their positive contributions. there is an emerging consensus that global efforts are needed to win the battle against climate change and that bali must set out the process and content of the post-2012 climate agreement. the european union will intensify its bilateral contacts with key partners to gain support for this line. however, we also need to look beyond bali. let us not forget that bali is just the start of a negotiating process. making sure that we get on the right track in bali is, of course, fundamental. but we will need to step up our efforts to forge common views and develop common solutions with all our partners over the coming months and years. the eu-china and the eu-india summit, as well as the eu-asia summit, all this november, are the next steps to generate even more convergence and political momentum for the post-2012 international climate agreement. as regards the united states and canada it will be vital to continue but also to go beyond contacts with the federal government. the international carbon market partnership (icap) with us states and canadian provinces, which i signed on behalf of the european union in lisbon on 29 october, brings together partners who are actively pursuing the implementation of carbon markets through mandatory cap and trade systems. i look forward to continuing these discussions with members of the european parliament in the run-up to bali, and thank you very much for your support. i have to underline that without the continuous support of the european parliament we would not have had an energy and climate-change package earlier this year and without your support we do not have any hope of achieving a better result in bali. so please come in bali with high ambitions and try to help us as you know how to do.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have inherited the co-authorship of this report from our colleague mr beglitis, who is now in the greek parliament, and i did so with some concern, but i must now say that i am very pleased with the result achieved. firstly, because of the good synchronisation with mr tannock, the co-rapporteur, also because i have had the opportunity to work with a group of extremely competent assistants and officials, and finally because a high level of consensus has been reached in the preparation of this report. the majority of the amendments tabled were accepted with a unanimous vote and the result seems to me to have been satisfactory. the report supports the commission's december 2006 document on the evaluation and future development of the european neighbourhood policy and, in view of the consensus reached, it can now be said that parliament and the commission share the same vision, the idea that the european continent and the mediterranean are interdependent realities that cannot be viewed in isolation and that the neighbourhood policy offers new avenues of relationship and collaboration with societies facing common challenges and problems, but also great opportunities for shared progress. the text sets out some elements to give the european neighbourhood policy the greatest possible strength and ambition. i will list five very quickly: first, the principle of a broad policy design, but also in the framework of differentiation, a principle of differentiation, so that the european neighbourhood policy is not seen as a standardized and mechanical routine, but as the way for the european union to organise relations with its neighbours on the basis of the flexibility necessary to be able to respond successfully to disparate situations. secondly, the idea of a balance between the countries of the east and the countries of the south. we must not give priority to one perspective over the other, but always have a fully balanced approach. thirdly, to reinforce, with the neighbourhood policy, the design of the euro-mediterranean policy, which is what i have worked on most concretely in this report. it is not a question of overlapping policies, of creating a baroque and overly complicated framework, but of creating synergies in such a way that the european neighbourhood policy can mean a strengthening of the general design of the euro-mediterranean partnership or association policy. fourthly, the idea of moving from cooperation to integration in everything that is possible. in those sectors which are prepared to do so, the aim would be, in the years ahead, to share policy areas which can ensure the development of convergence and synergies in key sectors such as energy, transport networks, intercultural dialogue, the environment or education. and finally, the criterion of involving, not just the management of governments or parliamentary institutions, but, to the extent possible, the more active sectors of civil society involved as possible, the better. in this context, the european neighbourhood policy should also address the basic question of communication and visibility. i would say, the overall narrative of europe's policy towards its neighbours. i would like to point out, finally, that this is now facing a first challenge of visibility, of narrative, with the proposal launched by mr sarkozy for a mediterranean union. we heard the french president yesterday, and i think he made very positive points in saying that his proposal for a mediterranean union excludes no one, firstly, secondly, that it must be added to the acquis of euro-mediterranean policy and, thirdly, that it must try to go further. i could not agree more with this approach, which seeks to simplify the overall political and institutional framework of european neighbourhood policy and, in particular, of the mediterranean area.
i am told that the council presidency was not informed that the debate was a joint debate on the european neighbourhood policy and the situation in georgia. so let's give mr. antunes the opportunity to play the second theme in a turn of speech.
i would like to thank mr tannock and mr obiols for their report and to inform them that my group is critical of the development and direction of the neighbourhood policy. critical because in 2004 we welcomed the possibility of establishing this neighbourhood policy based, fundamentally, on the promotion of human rights, specialised technical advice, a greater balance in the relationship between goods and people in the migration flow, but the truth is that, since the adoption of the financial instrument document, we seem to have given the impression that we were primarily interested in establishing free trade areas, free trade agreements and strict control over migration flows, leaving aside everything related to the promotion and demand for respect for human rights. there are two fundamental examples, to the west and to the south, and that is the conflict in the sahara, which mrs ferrero-waldner has mentioned, and the conflict in israel, or the responsibility, in other words, of morocco and the state of israel for two conflicts: the occupied territories of western sahara and in connection with the palestinian conflict. i think that, frankly, the neighbourhood policy would have to be much more demanding of these two states if they were to take responsibility once and for all for conflicts which have been going on for almost a century, and the other for forty or fifty years without a solution. we therefore believe that from this perspective we would have liked the european union to have taken a much more demanding position in establishing this neighbourhood policy.
mr siwiec, the electronic mechanism is not yet up to date, but mr claeys has not spoken on behalf of a group which has ceased to exist a few hours ago, but as an unattached member.
mr president, it is very important that our neighbours form a circle of prosperous, stable, peaceful countries in which power is based on democratic formulas and on full respect for fundamental rights. this idea should be a cornerstone of the european neighbourhood policy, which should encourage and help our neighbours to carry out the reforms necessary to make the values i mentioned above effective. the question of political, economic and social reforms is, in my view, an essential aspect of the report we are going to adopt tomorrow. a second point: the neighbourhood policy must take account of the specific features of each country. the differentiation should not be made on the basis of the continent to which the country belongs. neighbors are neighbors. and this is the relevant data. the fact that some of them are european may have consequences for possible accession to the union, but not for the purposes of the neighbourhood policy. this is the most widespread idea with which i agree, because it would be wrong for us to discriminate against one group of countries in favour of another. there can be no first-class neighbourhood policy and a second-class neighbourhood policy. the neighbours on the southern shore of the mediterranean have felt a certain fear that enlargement to 27 could lead to a certain marginalisation by the enlarged union, and we can in no way feed this fear by a neighbourhood policy which gives priority to eastern europe or the caucasus. the countries of the southern mediterranean have longstanding links with the union. they are essential to us in essential matters like security, immigration, energy. as you know, many member states have very close historical, political, human, cultural and economic links with them. that is the second main message of my speech. we do not distinguish between europeans and non-europeans in our neighbourhood policy. it must be, as mr brok has just said, a policy of shared responsibility. for all the above, mr president, i do not share the doubts expressed in paragraph 2 of the report about the relevance of the geographical scope of the european neighbourhood policy. and i would not have divided the report into two parts: one on european neighbours and the other on mediterranean neighbours. it was better a unitary document. and finally, my congratulations to mr tannock and mr obiols.
mr president, as the special envoy of the spanish osce presidency, i have had the opportunity to visit one of our most conflict-ridden neighbourhoods: the caucasus and all the so-called 'frozen' conflicts which, in view of what is happening in georgia, can best be 'frozen' because we have not achieved any obvious improvement in any of them and the events in georgia, as described, show how difficult the road to full democracy is. the caucasus is today the frontier line of the new cold war, the localized cold war. when you arrive in tbilisi you are greeted by a large image of president bush and when you arrive at the border with ossetia, a large image of president putin, symbolizing this new confrontation that we thought was over. what has happened has happened, but we now have a responsibility to use that neighbourhood policy to help make the january elections a free and fair election. it's going to be tough. it is difficult to imagine that in two months' time we can go from a state of emergency, with violent demonstrations being suppressed, with the media brutally closed, to an atmosphere of freedom allowing for a free democratic election; it is difficult to imagine that we can go from a situation in which the ombudsman is beaten by the police in the streets of the city to one in which citizens can freely choose their president. but here are the facts of the matter. we, the european parliament, must be deeply involved and participate in the monitoring of these elections with the osce and the observers we have to send, because much of the progress towards democracy in one of the most conflict-ridden areas of our neighbourhood is at stake there.
acting president of the council. as the honourable member will be aware, in may 2007 the commission presented to the european parliament, the council and also the committee of the regions a communication on circular migration and mobility partnerships between the european union and third countries. in its communication, the commission considers that circular migration is a useful tool to be developed at community level for a more effective management of migration flows. in its june 2007 conclusions on the enlargement and strengthening of the comprehensive approach to migration, the council stressed that the possibilities of legal migration, including well-managed circular migration, can benefit all stakeholders. the council therefore considers that all possibilities for well-managed circular migration should be explored in close cooperation with all relevant stakeholders, with a view to adopting council conclusions by the end of 2007 at the latest. the need to examine these circular migration possibilities, on the basis of the commission communication of 16 may 2007, was also reiterated in the conclusions of the european council of june 2007. the issue of adopting specific instruments and measures to facilitate circular migration is currently being discussed in the council. the question of how measures to facilitate circular migration can be implemented is also being examined in the council. the commission has not yet proposed any specific measures.
mr president, i think the portuguese presidency is devoting a great deal of attention to this issue, and i think the answer has been correct. i recognize that the portuguese presidency has a short time left, because this half-year is quite short, but i do not know whether it thinks that before 31 december it will be able to make any concrete proposals or whether it will encourage the commission to come forward with more concrete proposals, especially on the institutional side, whether the institutional mechanisms we have today are sufficient or whether it would be appropriate to create some kind of institution to facilitate this kind of circular migration.
acting president of the council. mr president, i thank the honourable member for his kind words, and indeed the presidencies in the second half of the year are always a little shorter, i do not know whether fortunately or unfortunately, because of the summer holidays. we would indeed like to make significant progress on this dossier by the end of this year, but obviously we are also somewhat dependent on the initiatives that the commission itself wants to put forward so that by the end of the year we can make progress. that would be our intention, that would be our taste, but at this moment i cannot guarantee that, but if it is possible, if we have the opportunity, we will not fail to take it.
mr president, i share with the council presidency the revolving door policy for immigration and also the new ideas of blue cards to attract quality immigration. but what i would like to ask the presidency of the council is whether it is convinced that, with countries with such a low level of development and as small as those we have in the world, we will be able to contain the great mass of immigration that we have every year to the european union.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his report, and also the rapporteur, mr president, for the work he has done in the committee on fisheries, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for the work he has done in the committee on fisheries. in any case, as far as the european union is concerned, the serious situation of bluefin tuna has been the responsibility of certain member states which have allowed and even encouraged the excessive growth of their fleets in the mediterranean and of the commission which, fully aware of this abuse and of the continuing under-reporting of catches, has not moved a finger to correct the situation so far. it is this irresponsibility that has led to the closure of fisheries for all member states following the scandal that two countries had already caught the quota of the entire european union in august. i therefore think it is important that the house should support mr braghetto's report, which includes my amendment so that from now on member states will have to submit a fishing plan in advance which guarantees a maximum number of vessels and a fishing effort commensurate with each country's quota. the commission has been in favour of including this fisheries plan and we hope that the council will support it as well. i regret, however, that the report did not save some exceptions for fleets which have been fishing in the atlantic since time immemorial, and which fish for a tiny fraction of the community quota with much more selective fishing gear. those who participate in these traditional fisheries are thus forced to pay the price for the unbridled greed of the fishing fleets of the two member states mentioned above, without eating or drinking it. i am also confident that this parliament and the council will redress this injustice. finally, i can only ask and demand that the commission take all the necessary measures to ensure that, in the allocation of the community quota for next year, those member states which have been forced to stop fishing because others have used up the quotas to which they were entitled are duly compensated and that all the necessary tonnes are deducted from the quotas of those responsible, so that this compensation is real and effective.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i welcome the commission's proposal to us to transpose the recovery plan for bluefin tuna agreed at the iccat into community law, and i agree with the commissioner that the measures contained in it, if properly implemented, will allow for a gradual recovery of stocks in both the atlantic and the mediterranean. the plan - and this is very important to me - has taken account of the specific characteristics of small-scale fisheries, giving them conditions so as not to penalise their activity and trying to combine the conservation of the resource with socioeconomic aspects. in this connection, i would like to point out to the commissioner that my country has asked from the outset for some flexibility in the minimum size to be applied to the small-scale fleet, and has therefore asked for a certain percentage of the quota with a size of less than 30 kg to be included for this hook fleet. the commission understood this request and understood that in a situation caused by large industrial fleets it could not be 'the pagans' the small artisanal fishermen, and agreed to include this measure, although it reduced it to 2% in the plan. but, commissioner, the place where it is placed, point 6 of annex i, raises doubts as to its geographical scope. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not deprived of its right to fish in the atlantic. and we are talking about a historic fleet which has operated for centuries without causing any problems in the stock and which began to decline precisely because of the overcapacity of the mediterranean siege fleet. the measure, commissioner, should apply to the fleets of all the countries involved in fisheries, not just those with atlantic fleets. algeria, tunisia and turkey are also entitled to use part of their quota to defend their artisanal fleets against the competition of industrial fleets and i do not think that this 'minimum exception', as you well know, will have any effect on the effectiveness of the recovery plan. that is why i ask the commission to take account of the doubts raised by the inclusion of this measure in point 6 of annex i and that the commission's representatives make every effort, during the iccat meeting which is currently taking place, to clarify that this 2% of catches can be made by small-scale fleets in both the atlantic and the mediterranean. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. for the same reason, we are opposed, and we will be opposed at the vote tomorrow, to the new amendments tabled by the green group.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i too would like to begin by acknowledging the work of mr braghetto in this report. however, as i mentioned at the time, during the discussion in the committee on fisheries, and on the basis of the reports that many scientists, environmental organizations and even parts of the sector are preparing, i think the title of the report should be changed. instead of referring to a supposed regulation of the bluefin tuna recovery plan, we should call this plan a non-recovery plan or, even better, a tuna annihilation plan. let us be clear, when the so-called recovery plan was adopted at the iccaa a year ago in dubrovnik, the scientific committee already warned - and i quote - 'in general, the preliminary results indicate that the measures taken, although they are a step in the right direction, are unlikely to fully meet the objective of the plan'. he added: "if the implementation is perfect and if future recruitment is at about the 1990s level and not affected by the recent level of reproductive biomass, there is a 50% chance of recovery in 2023 with the current regulations". in other words, under these assumptions, either imperfect implementation or recruitment falling from recent levels as reproductive biomass declines, or both, the objectives of the recovery plan will be difficult to achieve. and i insist that i rely on nothing more or less than scientific reports. and if that were not enough, it turns out that this plan, which has already been provisionally implemented in 2007, has worked so badly that the european union has exceeded its quota by 26%, which has forced, to an unprecedented extent, to initiate legal proceedings against all those countries which have not respected the rules, especially france and italy. i also want to ask how it is that another country, spain, exported almost 9 000 tonnes of tuna in 2006 when it only claimed to have caught 4 700, as organisations such as greenpeace and adena have pointed out. finally, it would also be interesting to know what measures the commission and the governments are planning to take to control and even reduce the size of the fishing fleet, since it seems at least difficult to think that it is possible to reduce catches if we have more and better boats, which in most cases live precisely on european subsidies. perhaps some answers will be found at the meeting of the iccaa which is taking place these days in antalya, turkey, and which will be attended by my colleagues marie-hélène aubert and michael earle. but for me the immediate conclusion is both simple and alarming: all the indications point to the stock situation being far below the most optimistic forecasts. some even claim that we have already passed the point of no return. i mean, under these conditions it is hard for me to think that the current plan can be called a recovery plan and not otherwise.
mr president, i am troubled by the answer given by commissioner borg to the question put by mr dumitrescu: the commissioner has spoken of leaving this to the market. but what are we talking about? we are talking about rights that have taken two centuries to develop: the rights of creators, of authors, of composers, of performers. and now we're told that those rights are going to be regulated by the market: why the market? the market of thieves, from whom the producers-creators have been taken away their intellectual property using the new media? what kind of rights are we talking about? the rights are regulated through public bodies and, specifically, at european level we have institutions which are the commission, the council and the parliament: the commission, with its right of initiative, and the council and parliament through the codecision procedure. it seems to me that this is not the time to go down that path which will lead to the disappearance of intellectual property. and if intellectual property is gone, intellectual creation is gone. some of the wise men who talk to us today about the advantages of the information society tell us that well, that yes, that composers and authors can go out on the streets giving concerts as in the middle ages. are we going to reduce our authors to medieval jugglers who can play in the middle of the street, put on a hat and wait for someone to give them a handout? i believe that it is time for the institutions of the european union to react in a forceful way to defend this european tradition, which has a very important political content and is essential for the maintenance of intellectual creation. it is only through the authors' societies, through the collective management of these societies that intellectual property rights and the creation of intellectual property can be defended today, at this moment, against the real thieves who are the broadcasting societies, who exploit intellectual creation for their own benefit.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i am also very pleased that this issue is being discussed in this house because, although it is true that there is no exhaustive definition of what constitutes a fragile state, we do have many cases which, empirically, fall into this category. this resolution thus allows us to address some of the most serious problems facing these contexts. for example, the fact that this fragility is often based on a situation of extreme poverty, which often leads to a situation of institutional collapse and insecurity at all levels. on the other hand, it is also crucial to start from the principle that the fragility of these states is a challenge for development and that it is urgent that we define a coherent agenda based on the humanitarian principle of do no harm. the first principle, do no harm, is an important lesson to be drawn from the recent events, from the recent episodes concerning the attitude of the ark of zo'e in chad. as for external action, particularly european action, in such contexts it must be based on the implementation of programmes on the ground, which must be flexible and adaptable to the changing needs of the field and drawn up on the basis of a strategy planned for the short, medium and long term. too often we focus on measures which may be necessary in the short term but which essentially lose sight of the consequences in the medium and long term. and finally, i would like to mention the importance of establishing a double-entry accounting mechanism, especially one which includes the obligation on the part of the recipient countries, of course, to render an account to those who have granted the resources, the funds, the donations, but also to the populations themselves, whose survival they must and must protect and guarantee. and it's the donors who have to guarantee also that they're going to make that accountability to those populations.
mr president, mrs lynne, commissioner, thank you very much for offering us this communication and this document, which will certainly enable us to make progress in our knowledge of the changes, trends and agenda we need for the future. but we must not make a mistake. we have many documents, we have many analyses, we have many debates and we have many words. but here, as in diseases, not only diagnosis is necessary, but also therapy. and, as you have said, commissioner, we really need a european therapy - the union, its institutions, its mechanisms - to be able to respond to the problems of today and tomorrow, bearing in mind that we either do it at the level of the union or there will be no possibility of doing it only at the level of the member states. some member states which are moving rapidly forward, like my own, are beginning to be threatened by policies which seek to curb or which seek, from other member states, to establish unfair competition with the offers and social change taking place in our countries. the commissioner should be aware that there is already a feeling that european social policy, which in the 1960s or 1970s - as a spanish trade unionist told me today in a letter - was intended to harmonize progress, and which in the 1980s and 1990s was confined to ensuring minimum standards, is now beginning to slip into a social policy in which there is competition between member states. the risks for the future, commissioner, are not only those of ageing or globalisation, but above all those of the virus of anti-socialism, of aggressive nationalism, xenophobia and anti-europeanism, which threaten the social achievements of europe today and tomorrow.
member of the commission. mr president, the debate has been extremely wide and extremely deep. i think it would be very difficult to respond in detail to individual performances. so let me try to respond in a certain way in a summarized way. firstly, i think it is quite clear from the debate that the idea of assessing social reality has found support in parliament, and although i agree with mr cercas that diagnosis is not therapy, without diagnosis there can be no therapy. our society is changing and finding new practices to match or reforming old practices is, in my view, essential, and to do so effectively, we need to know the big picture. i think that another common feature of the debate is that there is certainly a social reality which has its own dynamics, but there are also our values, a general european conception of the european social model, which includes social inclusion and social protection and activity in general. so it is not acceptable, within this model of our way of thinking and acting, to look at things and be passive. it is always possible to try active politics and active intervention. the third point i would like to emphasise is that there is undoubtedly a subsidiarity principle, as in most policies and in most european decisions, which says that everyone should deal with those parts of the policy where the problem can be best and most effectively addressed. this means that the member states' position on social policy is unquestionable. on the other hand, it is also very clear from the debate that it is impossible to achieve objectives at the level of the member states alone without applying the european level. it is therefore up to us to seek the most advantageous and effective synergies in this area. i also think that there was a concern in the debate, which i share in a way, that at some point there might be a risk that through inequality and incompatibility of social policies in the individual member states there might be competition leading to lower social standards. the european commission's policy is not to open the way to this possibility, and our basic concept is to make the various european social policies compatible in order to ensure competition and upward development, towards progress which always has a social dimension. ladies and gentlemen, i think it is also clear from the debate that social policy, economic policy and economic policy cannot be conceived in terms of either/or. there is only a 'not only' option, i.e. a variant of the joint development of both policies in balance and not the possibility of one overriding the other. there's usually a tendency to put economic policy above it. but i think it is quite clear from the debate that this is not the approach of the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, in your contributions you have touched upon a whole series of individual sub-problems, very deeply for example the problem of health, whether at the level of access to medicines or at the level of the overall organization. you debated the effects of demographic ageing and the importance of public services. i am pleased that the european commission's strategy papers record all these views and that we are working to integrate them into an overall and comprehensive strategy. ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by thanking mrs lynne, because the report she has drawn up, which is now before the european parliament, is undoubtedly an important element in the overall effort to make progress within the european union.
thank you, chief. i too, on behalf of the presidency, would like to congratulate mrs lynne on a report which has had a very wide impact on civil society. i am an exceptional witness to the caravans of young people against poverty and for inclusion, who travelled all over europe, had mrs lynne's document and went from city to city, from capital to european capital, honouring the european parliament thanks to the work of our colleague. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.35 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
mr president, i would like to ask you, in agreement with mrs mann, who cannot be with us in the chamber today, and with other colleagues, to convey the solidarity of the citizens of the union, represented by our parliament, with the victims of the tropical storm, which later became hurricane noel, which has devastated haiti, the dominican republic, jamaica, cuba, barbados and other parts of the caribbean, leaving a trail of destruction, disease and death. and also, mr president, with the victims of the floods in the mexican states of oaxaca, chiapas and also, above all, tabasco. i would ask you, mr president, not only to convey our solidarity but also to urge the european commission to take action to mobilise the instruments at its disposal to alleviate this situation and this damage, which always affects the most disadvantaged regions.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i would also like to take this opportunity to alert the house and draw the house's attention to a group, a collective, which is particularly persecuted in uzbekistan, but not only in uzbekistan, but also in turkmenistan. it's mainly the lgbt population. gays and lesbians are usually also doubly persecuted, for their status as activists, many times, but also for their status as gays and lesbians. many of those who publicly admit to being part of this group or who are denounced for being part of it face between two and five years in prison. i think that in this context it is possible that when we talk about human rights in general we normally take all human rights into account, but we often forget also about this particular group, which has specific needs and which also tried at the last osce meeting, which took place in madrid, to put forward these demands in the face of incomprehensible opposition from many of the governments. i think that is something we should remember and that we should at any rate recall in the future debate on relations between the european union and central asia.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we were talking about how to deal with the situation of fragile states. somalia is not just a fragile state, it is a failed state. but we must not forget - and mr bowis was just saying this - that the enormous level of violence currently taking place in that country is fuelled by a fundamental, indispensable fuel, which is the continuous entry of arms, mainly small arms and ammunition, from other countries in the region and, in many cases, directly from western countries, including the european union. we cannot therefore ignore the fact that, in addition to reacting to the immediate consequences of what is happening in somalia, we also have a responsibility for this situation, and when we talk about the obligation and the responsibility to protect, which is what we are accustomed to doing in such debates, we must also assume our own preventive responsibility, for example by controlling arms exports.
acting president of the council. madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the solemn proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights in strasbourg on 12 december by the presidents of the council, the portuguese prime minister, josé sócrates, the european parliament and the european commission will undoubtedly be one of the most significant moments in the recent history of the union and of the portuguese presidency of the european union. we are taking a step forward and a step with important practical implications in consolidating the universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity. with the new lisbon treaty, the charter will have the same value as the treaties, that is, it will be legally binding. this is a fact which, because of its importance, should be duly emphasized and of which we all, parliament, governments and the commission, should be proud. it's the end of a long road. the decision to give legal force to the charter of fundamental rights goes beyond the usual political and diplomatic circles and is directly reflected in the legal sphere of our fellow citizens. it is the concrete result of europe. it is true that the institutional reforms of the lisbon treaty are important, and it is also true that the changes made to the union's policies, the common foreign and security policy, the jha and other areas are important if the union is to face the future and meet the challenges it faces. but the existence of a catalogue of rights, binding on the european institutions and on the member states when they apply european law, has a meaning that goes far beyond all this. from this moment on we have put citizens at the heart of the european project. as we are talking about fundamental rights, i would also like to welcome, on behalf of the presidency and also on behalf of my own country, because this is the achievement of an objective which we have long advocated, the provision in the lisbon treaty which provides for the union's accession to the european convention on human rights. for all this, i can only congratulate this parliament and mr jo leinen on the adoption of this draft report on 12 december in the committee on constitutional affairs, which once again demonstrates the commitment of this house to the fundamental rights of the european union. i would like to express my sincere hope that the house will also be able to vote in favour of the charter of fundamental rights, so that it can be solemnly proclaimed by the three institutions on 12 december. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. madam president, the charter of fundamental rights will be a key instrument in our union based on the rule of law. it contains a real catalogue of rights that all citizens of the union should enjoy, from the individual rights related to dignity, freedoms, equality and solidarity to the rights linked to citizenship status and justice. the charter will not alter the union’s competences, but it will offer strengthened rights and greater freedom for citizens. the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union will be bound by the rights written into the charter, and the same obligations will be incumbent upon the member states when they implement the union’s legislation. citizens will be able to claim before the courts the rights enshrined in the charter, and the legal scrutiny of the court of justice will ensure that the charter is applied correctly. the commission welcomes the fact that the legally binding force of the charter has been preserved through the negotiations in the intergovernmental conference. like parliament, we would have preferred to see the charter apply to all 27 member states, with no exceptions to its full justiciability, but we should not underestimate the results achieved. legal force is a major step forward in building a legitimate and accountable union, where citizens’ interests are the focus of attention. this was not obvious at the outset and it has been a long road to achieving this goal fully. the charter proclaimed in 2000 was not legally binding. during the european convention in 2002-2003 and in the igc that followed in 2003-2004, the charter was adapted in order to make it legally binding, but that process was stopped due to the failure to ratify the constitutional treaty. at the european council in june 2007, it was agreed that the future new treaty would contain a cross-reference to the charter, as adapted and finally approved in 2004, and that it would have the same legal value as the treaties, and this is now reflected in the new treaty. the rapporteur is proposing that parliament should approve the charter, which is a necessary step before its solemn proclamation, and, of course, the commission fully supports this recommendation. the commission will also approve the charter next week and authorise the president to proclaim it on 12 december, together with the presidents of parliament and the council. the proclamation of the revised charter will provide the basis for a cross-reference in the new treaty that will be signed the following day in lisbon, extending the legal value and justiciability to the rights enshrined in it. with the new treaty and the charter of fundamental rights, the union will undeniably enhance its protection of human rights. the european union is not only a marketplace but also a common space based on values and common rights.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting a report on the implementation of the european charter of fundamental rights, which is a very important document. i agree with the previous speakers - especially mrs wallström - that the european union is not just a market. the european union is a political project, but it is based on principles and values that unite europeans. so, madam president, today is a good day, with a resolution that will give the green light to the strasbourg plenary to celebrate and solemnly proclaim this charter of human rights. i do not think i am going to reveal any secrets if i say that those of us who had the good fortune to take part in the drafting of that charter at the first convention were left with a bitter aftertaste for two reasons. firstly, although we drafted the charter as if it were to be legally binding, in the end it was not possible in nice, because six governments refused to do so. the time has proved those of us who were in that position right, and today the charter, in the treaty of lisbon, will be legally binding. so that bitter aftertaste becomes a satisfaction today. and secondly, madam president, i remember that there was no solemn proclamation of the charter in nice. a great opportunity was lost to explain to the europeans that the rights and freedoms proclaimed in the charter are our hallmarks. he signed a cover letter. well, thanks to the pressure of the president of the european parliament and our three representatives at this intergovernmental conference, we are going to do on 12 december in the parliament in strasbourg what was not done in nice. we shall solemnly proclaim it and we shall reaffirm, as the members of the european people's party have done, our commitment to those rights and freedoms which are enshrined in that charter. we shall vote in favour of mr leinen's report.
mr president, i think we are talking about an extremely important subject as far as citizenship is concerned. it is clear that trying to explain the reform of the european union can be very complicated, but what is certain is that it is easy to underline the importance of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. will it be legally binding? it will not be explicitly in the treaty, but it is our duty to make it known. i therefore think that the initiative we have taken to get it signed before the lisbon treaty is signed is very positive. we must also say that these exceptions should not be repeated in the future and that they are not good for the citizens of the countries concerned or for the citizens of the european union as a whole. that is why i think it is crucial that we make an effort, as mr leinen proposes in his report, to support clearly the charter of fundamental rights and its legally binding nature.
president of the government of spain. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a convinced and militant europeanist, as the president of the government of a profoundly europeanist country, it is a great honour to appear before this parliament, the most common house in europe. the rich diversity of our peoples is integrated here. here, our identities are manifested, starting from diversity to reach what unites us. if any institution embodies the soul of our project more vividly than the european parliament, it is this institution, for it is here that the direct wishes of the european citizens reside. we have been building a house that is stronger and better equipped. today it comfortably shelters the great european family. but we've also made it stronger and more demanding. because as their representativeness grows, so does their capacity to guide and then control our policies and actions. we are therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the right place to discuss the europe we want. the europe we need. i would therefore like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to present my thoughts and proposals on the present and future of the union. the idea of europe is associated by the spanish with our desire for peace, freedom, democracy and prosperity. our best tradition is linked to the values with which we identify the european cultural and political space. for a long time we have kept alive the aspiration to join the process which was launched more than 50 years ago. the success of spain over the last two decades has been largely fuelled by the social dynamism generated by our membership of the union and by the effective use of the means made available to us by the solidarity of the members who preceded us in this project. we owe europe a great deal as spaniards, and we spaniards approached this project, first of all, with a deep gratitude which i wish to record today before the european parliament. it should therefore come as no surprise to anyone that we approved the constitutional treaty in a referendum. nor can anyone be surprised that we contributed our willingness and flexibility to overcome the institutional crisis, while remaining firm, coherent and tenacious in preserving its essential contents, without which the project itself would have been deformed. we've outgrown the risk. but we have a challenge ahead of us. the challenge of building the europe that we need and that the world needs in the 21st century. we want a europe of values. the european identity has been forged over a long history marked by tragic moments, but also illuminated by the noblest creations of mankind, by the light of thought, the warmth and plasticity of our artists, the deep convictions of our statesmen, the inspiration of our citizens. freedom, the rule of law, human rights, tolerance, equality between women and men, solidarity: that is the moral code of europe; it is in adherence to these values, and not in geographical terms, that the true essence of our union lies. (applause) our europe must be and have a real political substance. only then can we build a union worthy of our ambitions. if we want that europe, we must make it an effective europe. a union capable of meeting the challenges of our time. europe has its citizens as its source of legitimacy and as its ultimate destination. europeans are the citizens of the world with the most rights and the best protection. but we are not an island and we cannot live comfortably with the lack or non-observance of these rights elsewhere. there is an ethical duty to work for its extension. and that ethical duty gives europe a mission in the world. this europe of values with effective political substance and a heritage of citizens is also the europe we need. in a changing and increasingly complex world, we must move forward with integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is time, then, to join forces. time to renew our enthusiasm. we have heard too often that europe was in crisis, that it doubted itself, that the citizens felt little identified with its project, or that enlargement would dilute the momentum of political union. i didn't share that pessimistic perception. we've been through these situations before, and we've always gotten stronger from them. jean monnet pointed out that change is accepted when it is necessary, and that necessity is imposed during crises. driven by necessity we have introduced changes that will be very productive. i welcome the process which has led to the adoption of the new treaty. it wasn't easy. we are developing a new model in the history of political civilization, one that is moving forward with the concrete realities that schuman spoke of. of course, we may need more time to make decisions. but we've already got the fruit of our labor. and it is right that i should acknowledge the extraordinary contribution of this parliament. for spain, which has struggled to maintain the europeanist impulse and the balance of the treaty, the support of this house has been stimulating and decisive. during the negotiations, europe has continued to move forward. we will now have the new instruments provided for in the treaty and the significant expansion of the areas on which we can decide by qualified majority to seek solutions to the concerns of our citizens. europe must be more than ever a beacon of progress and prosperity. we cannot afford to delay the opening up and modernisation of our economies. we must work hard to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. this is our main and immediate reference point for meeting the demands of globalisation in its dual dimension, external and internal. let's be ambitious experience tells us that when we are, we do well. the extraordinary impact of the adoption of the euro, which is spreading to new member states, shows us the possibilities for further deepening our integration. let us complete the development of the internal market for goods, services and networks and strengthen the competition surveillance institutions to ensure its proper functioning. in its external dimension, europe is called upon to play a leading role in shaping the fair rules of globalisation. let us increase the transparency and openness of our markets and support those of our non-community partners in a context of fair and loyal competition. we are moving forward on the momentum of the doha round. let us set an example in promoting international trade. the globalised world demands that we make a special effort in technological innovation and research, that we make the most of the extraordinary potential of our scientists and universities, that we combine excellence with territorial cohesion. our model of effective integration requires balanced access to new technologies by all member states. we want to progress to provide welfare. ours is a social europe. a europe of social rights (applause) our economic model is not conceivable without equity. and fairness cannot be achieved without protection. our success must be measured by our ability to continue to grow in solidarity and cohesion. we must promote stable and dignified employment, ensure that our workers are able to adapt to changes in the production system, and support policies of social inclusion, equal opportunities, job security and health guarantees for our citizens. this new and ever-widening europe will only succeed if it strengthens its solidarity among all the member states. cohesion is a basic principle, especially because of the significance of the commitment we have made to each other, because of the creation of decisive links for the political integration of the union. spain, which has benefited greatly from community solidarity, supports the new member states in doing so and is ready to share its experience in order to make effective use of it. europe is now engaged in a process of great strategic importance: the creation of a common area of freedom, security and justice, the development of the schengen area and the external border system. nothing is more indicative of mutual trust than the sharing of security, for which the member states with external borders bear a special responsibility. spain has always been at the forefront of these initiatives and will continue to support them with the utmost determination. i want to stress the importance of strengthening european immigration policy. immigration is a reality that has marked, and will continue to mark, the european agenda, and it affects very sensitive aspects of our project. we start from the unequivocal recognition of the positive potential of immigration, which ranges from the demographic contribution to the dynamism of cultural diversity, to the boost to the potential growth of our economies, which has been very evident in the case of spain. let us support integration policies which respect rights and require obligations. let us act on the causes of migration at the same time. let us do this through dialogue and effective cooperation with the countries of origin and transit. let us strengthen solidarity between the member states and equip ourselves with the means to control the external borders effectively. spain has promoted measures which are being successfully implemented, but much remains to be done. let us strengthen the european border agency, improve our cooperation on the ground and disrupt the mafias who are exploiting the vital urgency of these men and women to get out of their environment of misery and frustration. (applause) we have the great challenge of preventing and combating terrorism and organised crime. let us be more ambitious in our police and judicial cooperation. spain, through our painful experience, knows the vital need for solidarity and will always be at the forefront of this policy. with new initiatives and by example, europe must aim to shape multilateral responses to global problems. we are already doing so in the fight against climate change, with our commitment to reduce by 20% the emissions of greenhouse gases by 2020. we can and must set a trend, we can be a benchmark and facilitate a new consensus in the negotiations which will begin in bali next december. we have a lot to do in the energy field. spain is calling for a real energy policy, with a transparent single market, guaranteed supplies and lower environmental costs. we believe that there can be no credible european energy policy without promoting a well-articulated system of interconnections between all the member states. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, we are a global player because we are not just a project for europeans. we will not achieve our full realization if we only defend our interests. we will achieve this if we project our values on the international scene, if we consolidate ourselves as a factor of peace, stability and solidarity. the success of our integration is measured in large part by what we can mean to others, by the meaning our voice has for the whole world. the future needs europe more than ever. we must not aspire to see the world today in our great history, but in our open horizon. the new treaty will provide us with effective instruments for our common foreign policy. the president of the council and the high representative for foreign affairs, and the rearrangement of powers and resources, will give it greater prominence and continuity. we also have the experience of recent years, where we have built up civil and military crisis management capabilities and successfully deployed in the most challenging areas, such as the congo and bosnia. we are the number one donor of development aid and humanitarian aid. we are forced to do so by our conception of dignity, our humanist roots, our sense of justice. but also our interest. only shared development and equity in the world can guarantee security in a world that tends to be convulsive. in these times of profound changes in international reality, europe must increase its legitimacy as a space of integration and democracy and develop its capacity to form consensus on a global scale. the new europe cannot be understood in isolation from its neighbours to the east and south. our prosperity has to be part of theirs. we must make our voices heard and theirs heard, so that we can engage in a fruitful dialogue together. we are playing a very large game in our relations with the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean. we must confirm in them the true dimension of europe, the europe which is interested in all that others bring, which respects difference, which offers its values without imposing them, which develops the partnership within the framework of the new neighbourhood policy. the northern and southern shores of the mediterranean are home to the largest income gaps on the planet, and long-standing conflicts persist in the region. but it is also true that north african societies are young and dynamic, and that their political systems are opening up significant amounts of freedom. relations with the islamic world, in which europe must chart a path of dialogue and alliance, will be marked by the image we project in this region. let us take advantage of the forthcoming european union-africa meeting to meet the just and urgent demands of this painful continent, neighbour and yet distant, which is anxiously knocking at our doors. let us act to settle their people in their own land, to support them in their aspiration to seize there their own vital opportunity. we can also offer a european approach to the main challenges on the international scene. for example, in the middle east peace process and relations with the islamic world, in the fight against international terrorism, in nuclear non-proliferation, in the strategic relationship with russia and the major asian countries, in respect for human rights and the spread of democracy, in the fight against hunger and poverty, in the generalization of education and health, in social cohesion. let us increase our active presence in all geographical areas of the planet by encouraging other integration processes. let me highlight here, as an example, the importance of increasing our relations with latin america and of promoting the negotiations on association agreements between the union and the various regional groups in latin america. we must firmly commit ourselves to multilateralism and strengthen the central role of the united nations in mediation and intervention efforts to resolve conflicts. it is also essential that the union progresses in the design of a common defence policy which will enable it to intervene actively and autonomously in the maintenance of international peace and security under the mandate of the united nations. the development of the necessary civilian and military capabilities, the european combat groups, the rapid response forces initiatives, and the european defence agency programmes are important but still insufficient progress. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to share with you some of the main features of my vision of europe and the objectives which i believe we must set for ourselves now and in the future. i tried to tell you about europe from spain. let me now briefly tell you about spain from europe. the policy pursued by my government in recent years has the same stamp as the european priorities. we are in a period of economic growth, opening up more and more, introducing reforms on the lisbon path. we have already achieved one of the two main objectives of our national reform programme in 2007, to achieve an employment rate of 66%, and we will achieve the second, to fully converge with the european per capita income, by 2010, the date initially planned. we have made a firm commitment to training human resources, providing infrastructure and expanding communication technologies. we are thus contributing to a europe based on a knowledge-based economy, competitive in the information society. our social model has been enriched and strengthened. we have sound public accounts, with a surplus of around 2% of gross domestic product, declining public debt and consolidated social security. our employment has grown dramatically - three million new jobs in the last four years - and jobs have become more stable. we have moved forward through the social agreement and enjoyed the period of greatest social peace since the dawn of democracy. we have opened the door to social policy by establishing the right to care for people in a situation of dependence and disability, which is, of course, a new pillar of the welfare state. sustainability has become the cornerstone of our growth model. we managed to reduce our emissions in 2006 for the first time, even with such strong economic growth. and we're committed to bali as we are to kyoto. the spanish people have more rights today: the one with the greatest social impact, that of equality between men and women, developed broadly and guaranteed by law; the one of great significance, marriage between people of the same sex, which recognizes them and them as equal to others and which dignifies us all as a society. spain has supported multilateralism and will continue to do so. spain has supported the european union and the european institutions and will continue to do so. we will multiply, as we have done in recent years, our development cooperation, to be among the top ten countries in the world for the percentage of our gross domestic product we devote to development aid. we will continue to grow by devoting 0.7% of our gross domestic product over the next four years to development aid, to bring solidarity and dignity to millions of people around the world. mr president, for a long time we could only say that if europe moved forward, so would spain. i think i can say today, with pride but with humility, that if spain has advanced, as it has, so has europe. i am fully convinced that europe will exceed our expectations. we have the extraordinary capacity of all your institutions. and we have a very special confidence in this parliament. in the most difficult moments, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has always been a bulwark against pessimism and a courageous and tireless defender of european integration, and i would like to thank you today in a very special way. its proposals and debates have marked the major reforms of the union over the years. in this room, amongst all of you, europe is felt more strongly than anywhere else, europe is lived with more hope and more confidence. i therefore want my last words to express the recognition of spain and my staff for the prestige and the work of this house, and for the work of the men and women of all ideologies and of all countries who, in the various legislatures, have made it possible, from these seats, to arrive at the europe of today and prepare the europe of tomorrow. we have successfully overcome the risk of the most recent period. now we have many challenges ahead of us. let us look very high on the horizon and work together to get closer to the europe we need and, above all, the europe the world needs. thank you very much. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
i would like to thank the president of the spanish government, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, for his thoughts on the direction of the european union. it is true that we would have preferred that his speech, his european contributions, had taken place at another time, before and not after the lisbon summit, and not precisely 72 hours after his appointment as prime minister, because these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, never favour the real objective of a meeting of this kind. but, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, i would be unfair - and our group does not want to be unfair - if i did not thank you and appreciate in the right measure, and on your behalf, the reflections that mr rodríguez zapatero has introduced, which are undoubtedly useful in the future european orientation. it is not easy for me to speak on behalf of the group of the european people's party on freedom and european union, mainly because there are personal trajectories in my group which are so exemplary in the defence of freedom and so recent in their suffering, that no words can come out of my mouth that are adequate or sufficient to explain the deep and authentic meaning of our group for the european union. our group welcomes the undoubted progress at the lisbon summit, but at the same time we would be untrue if we did not say that our political group believes that we still lack the political impetus and the political ambition to transform today's european union into the european union needed for the future of europeans. we will not achieve the europe we need if we do not believe in ourselves; we will not achieve the european union by inertia, by the fine words of one or the other, or by commonplaces. it is not so much words as coherence and authenticity, for example when it comes to the transposition of european directives or the implementation of the kyoto protocol. mr president, this missing section is undoubtedly based on the determination to defend our values and on the effort which will enable us to consolidate the moral strength of the union and, in short, a culture of our own, which is what our project essentially means. but let us get the europeans used to the difficulty of this part of the road we have to go, let us say so and explain it clearly; let us share with them this political attitude of effort and dare to tell the europeans the truth about the difficulty we still have to go. they will not be discouraged by this, but on the contrary it will be the road of hope, of enthusiasm and of the european proximity which we so badly need. let us state more clearly what problems we are lacking, let us be able to prioritise them, to work on those urgent chapters in the search for a division of powers between the european union and the european nations, without generalizing, prioritizing and concretizing the most urgent problems that remain. mr president, agreement, consensus and a step-by-step approach have been the traditional european method and, more than a value, consensus is a method. this means that we must be able to limit and organize it and, at the same time, we must strengthen the dimension of european political groups to this end, because there will be no european union without european political parties. and this also requires that we do not bring to this house the national disagreements and disagreements (which are real and profound) as we brought them from spain to this house months ago, unfortunately, as you well know. mr president, there are problems which require a european dimension. that certainly strengthens the union, but in the opinion of our group it also strengthens the european nations; the union does not grow stronger by weakening the european nations, but quite the contrary: the european union, its culmination, needs the strength of its members and becomes impossible with weakened nations in which its territorial integrity is called into question. we are united by the value of freedom, which is the value of values, and these values are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights which we are going to sign on 12 december in strasbourg, but it is not an appearance: it is a renewed commitment to freedom, and not only in the territory of our union, but especially in the territory of our friends, with whom we have traditionally shared our culture, in latin america and also in some eastern european republics. we must also try to consolidate our system of principles and values in those countries. again, consistency is more than words. history demonstrates the beneficial effect of our culture on the world. let us spread it and at the same time be aware that we cannot lock this value up in the heart of our european union.
mr president, mr president of the government, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i rise on behalf of the spanish socialists to thank the prime minister for his presence here today. it has been said of his speech that it is an ideal speech and it has also been said that it is a very ambitious agenda. what i want to say to the prime minister, first of all, is that he has given us a set of economic, political and social data which justify not only generic europeanism but also facts. and let me make a brief reference to something that has been said here. we have been talking about massive regularization; at the moment, france and germany are copying the regularization system (applause) which spain has followed, starting with individual regularization and with the participation of employers and trade unions. mr toubon, get up to speed on what is happening in your country. secondly, mr president, i would like to express my personal thanks to the president of the government for the reference he has made to some of the veterans and to our work, which we have been doing here for many years. i would like to say something in this connection: in addition to what we have received - and it is good to be grateful - we have contributed things. citizen and social europe, cohesion and the charter of fundamental rights are not spanish copyrighted, but they have a great spanish influence, of which we can be rightly proud. as regards ratification, i agree with what the prime minister has said. what is striking is that people who have done nothing in their country and who have not taken a step to ratify the constitution or to approve the treaty are coming to give lessons to those who have done their job. (applause) and here i want to say something very specific. in the ratification process, we must appeal to solidarity and mutual loyalty; it is not good for some to do their job and for others to come and renegotiate. that must end in europe once and for all. finally, mr president, mr mayor oreja has made a slip of the tongue by re-electing president zapatero, who is currently a candidate for the spanish government, as prime minister a few months before the next elections. it would be interesting if, in view of the election of the next president of the commission, the political groups, starting with the ppe-de group, would hand over a copy of the speech by president zapatero to the candidate. (applause) i would like to thank
mr. prime minister, welcome to this house. in spain, fortunately, the commitment to european integration has united the vast majority of political forces, including those in catalonia. this unity of forces, which began in 1986, continued with the euro and was repeated in the debate on the european constitution, has given the governments that have preceded it, and also yours, the strength to be in the first division of a political and ambitious europe. your speech today confirms that same commitment, and i congratulate you on it. but, mr president, your responsibility does not end with your enthusiastic speeches full of europeanist faith. europe needs leaders who are committed to their project in their daily political action and not just on solemn and institutional occasions, just as we do not always perceive that commitment in some of their government's day-to-day actions, with which they do not avoid fruitless clashes with the european commission, or in those who seem to wait for others to take the initiative before setting their own position. in any case, it is time for political leadership to build a europe that will restore the citizens' enthusiasm for this collective project. because europe, mr rodríguez zapatero, is more than the sum of the domestic success of its governments, including those that you may have had. the adoption of the treaty of lisbon will mark the end of a phase and the work will have only just begun. it will be time to continue building an area of freedom, security and justice; time to build a genuine european immigration policy; time to improve the competitiveness of our businesses and the welfare opportunities of our citizens; and time, too, to raise europe's voice in the world and increase relations with our neighbours, notably the mediterranean, where so much can be done from spain. spain, while not denying or failing to reflect its intense national and linguistic diversity, has therefore much to offer to make this great common ideal a reality and you, if the polls give you back the confidence to govern, alone or in company with others, will have to put all your personal effort into achieving those objectives.
mr zapatero, i am very pleased to see you here and to hear you give importance to the challenge of climate change. and the need to act now. welcome to the club. at the same time, words have to be accompanied by consequential political decisions and the palpable truth is that spain is still the climate black sheep with the figures on kyoto in hand. this calls for a major response in terms of renewable energy; it requires a policy with taxation. i am very pleased with the proposal that was made, but it was wrong, about the extra cent on petrol and at the same time i would like spain to lead a proposal for an ecological taxation at european level in the face of the flood of foreign products and imports of polluting products. we would like to see the substantial subsidies to coal, both at european and spanish level, eliminated, tax measures taken seriously to reduce spain's skyrocketing energy consumption and infrastructure investments directed towards rail and other public transport rather than motorways. on a more positive note, i would like to congratulate you most sincerely on spain's abandonment of nuclear energy. this gradual abandonment is very important and i ask other european leaders to take note of this fact, because nuclear energy is very expensive, very dangerous and very slow to build, and it is not a response to climate change.
mr prime minister, welcome to the government. you know that i am one of those minorities who would have liked the lisbon treaty to have been put to a referendum in spain and in all the member states. i have listened to you carefully, and we are still in time for you to lead this possibility; we are still in time for europe to hold a referendum, in all the member states, on the same day, to have a fundamental thing in history, which are the citizens; because our position is not aesthetic, it is a profoundly democratic position, in the sense that we cannot build a european project, or finish building it, without the direct participation of the citizens. i think you are being overly optimistic when you say that we have finally built up a social europe. in this house we have to co-legislate many times with direct attacks on the european social state, on the subject of work and job security; now we have an open debate on flexicurity. i therefore believe that we have a pending debate on the consolidation of this welfare state. i would like to end with a request, mr president. we have, indeed, the eu-africa summit. do not forget the occupied territories of western sahara. spain and the european union have a fundamental responsibility. the united nations security council has demanded a right to self-determination and it is up to us, the european union, to make that demand substantial and therefore concrete, and if possible at the eu-africa summit.
mr president of the government, it is true, and it is fair to say that after a worrying period of uncertainty, you have been one of the leaders who have put the european transatlantic liner back on the road, and for that you should be congratulated. however, it is sad for those of us who consider ourselves profoundly europeanists to see that this transatlantic liner is still operating with two of the same weights that caused it to go down in flames at the time: too much commercialism and too much intergovernmentalism. we also note that although the ship is moving, its course - defeat, in terms of the sea - is the one marked by the merkel-sarkozy compass, which makes the ship clearly point towards the conservative right. the question is: what margin do you have, mr president, to straighten the ship and correct the course? how do you propose to convince those who, being europeans, are afraid to get on board the european ship because they do not see it as safe, or because they do not know where it is going, or because they do not perceive either the social europe or the environmentally sustainable europe, or the internationally responsible europe or the transparent, democratic and people's europe, of which we so often speak? do you intend to lead the leap from a market europe to a political europe? how did you do that? and since you have congratulated this house so much, do you not think it is time that this parliament became the main european legislator? in the light of the new information on the use of spanish bases for the transport of prisoners to guantanamo, does the government intend, through the council as well, to review relations with the united states? because, mr president, all this is also talking about europe; it is, above all, talking about european credibility.
mr president of the government, i join all my colleagues in welcoming you, in an act of parliamentary respect and courtesy which i am sorry the socialist group did not understand. in addition, mr president, we spanish members of the european parliament must be pleased that you have appeared before this parliament before giving the spanish congress of deputies an account of the outcome of the lisbon council, which you no doubt intend to do before the cortes are dissolved, because you will agree that the spanish deserve an explanation for having been, as you have mentioned, the first to endorse a constitution which no longer exists. mr president, the europeanist devotion of your speech is fully shared by the vast majority of this house, and i imagine that now, from europe and towards spain, as you have said, you will share our concern that spain has fallen behind europe in the transposition of community directives into national law and that we have taken the lead in infringement proceedings against european standards. i also have to tell you that they contrast their commitments today and here with the environment - which can only deserve praise - with the harsh reality of the facts, because we have just had breakfast with a report from the european commission which points to our country as the one that is furthest away from the objectives set out in the kyoto protocol. mr president, i cannot wish you luck in the next elections in march, and it is true that this act has seemed more like an electoral act than anything else, but i do wish you, wherever you are, to make your valuable contribution to re-establishing the consensus among the spanish political forces in the european institutions, which has been broken, mr president, not by initiatives that have come out of this side of the... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today, with globalisation, our economy, the progress of the community and the well-being of our citizens need more than ever to be supported by an effective, efficient, economical and, above all, sustainable transport system. all modes of transport are necessary. the railway had glorious times in its origins, but then it was cornered by vehicles that circulated on roads and highways, given its greater versatility, individuality and ability of proximity or proximity. now, with our roads at risk of collapse and our environment in critical condition due to pollution, we turn our eyes to the railway as the hope of the future to meet our needs for inland mobility. the commission, aware of this, has proposed a new legislative package to improve the technical part of the regulatory framework for rail transport, which revises the directives on interoperability, safety and the regulation on the european railway agency. the european institutions have been addressing the need to consolidate the railway sector at community level for years, with a global perspective. as far as interoperability is concerned, we all know that we adopted council directive 96/48/ec on high-speed railways in july 1996 and on the european conventional transport system in march 2001. however, after more than a decade, the interoperability levels of the european networks are still only 7%, and the requirement to have locomotives and traction equipment type-approved in each of the states in which they intend to operate is currently one of the most important obstacles to the creation of new railway undertakings engaged in passenger and freight transport, as well as a major obstacle to the interoperability of european railways. and since no state can decide on its own whether its authorizations for placing in service are valid in the territory of other states, a community initiative is needed to simplify and harmonize state procedures and to encourage a more systematic use of the principle of mutual recognition. the current directives only regulate the putting into service of new rolling stock. the new directive consolidates, recasts and merges the existing directives. for our part, on the basis of short technical reports which we have requested in accordance with parliament's rules, we have proposed to transfer the content of the old article 14 of the safety directive to our directive on interoperability, precisely in order to give more legal guarantees to the railway sector concerned and to simplify authorization for entry into service. we support the condition that there should be at least one authorization from one member state for each vehicle, which will be based on compliance with the ec declaration and the technical specifications for interoperability that affect them. member states shall consider infrastructure subsystems whose putting into service has been authorised in any other member state as already complying with the essential technical requirements and shall not require any further authorisation except where this may affect compatibility with the specificities or constraints of the infrastructure itself. in our report we wanted to structure the various aspects and sections of the directive in a way that was easier for the parties concerned to understand, by devoting a specific chapter to the requirements for the entry into service of vehicles, depending on whether they are first or second authorizations, or vehicles which comply with all or part of the tsis. in all the above areas and throughout the procedure, we have had regular contacts between the alternative rapporteurs from the various political groups, the commission and also the council presidency. finally, we were able to reach a common agreement, having overcome an important aspect, which was the maximum time limits for deciding on an authorization and the eradication of the well-known and paralyzing administrative silence due to lack of decision. after much effort, we have agreed that authorization will be automatic in the absence of a decision and we have also agreed on the rest of the article. we have therefore tabled a joint amendment, signed by all the groups in this parliament, containing the same text as that which will be tabled to the council of transport ministers. i hope that the agreement reached at first reading will be to the benefit of the whole sector. i would like to thank all the other rapporteurs for the help and cooperation which we have provided for this purpose.
on behalf of the pse group. i have to say, mr president, mr vice-president barrot, that i am heartbroken today because my president, mr zapatero, after having been here in the chamber, is having a reception in the council and i have decided to stay here to listen to you and thus - i hope - to reinforce a little bit the europeanisation of rail transport. i am really pleased that the commission has given us europeans the opportunity, through an exercise which is really better legislation, through the recasting of a number of old directives and the search for a single text, to make substantial progress in favour of the railways. in this respect, i congratulate mr ortuondo once again on his dedication and tenacity, almost to the point, in developing a good legislative text, and i also welcome the good cooperation we have had from all the groups in advancing the important issue of interoperability. i would also like to say that the best possible balance has been struck between security and the need to move forward boldly on interoperability. the safety of the two reports drawn up by mr costa and his dedication to them are absolutely guaranteed. the agency is enhanced, strengthened and, on the other hand, its tasks and needs are better clarified, which we hope will grow more harmoniously in the future. the european citizens have nothing to fear, because rail safety has been europeanised and is thus being strengthened. as regards the work on interoperability, it was urgent to get it done, because first of all we have the europeanisation of rail transport and then what we have just done - let us say - in terms of supporting convenience, logistics and, right now, we have a new text on dedicated lines which will make interoperability even more necessary. as mr costa has said, we had to make progress in making the will of the legislator, that is to say parliament and the council, to allow railways to run freely a reality and we have succeeded - i believe - in creating the conditions to avoid as much as possible the perpetual legal uncertainty which has caused all the issues of mutual recognition of authorizations for rolling stock and locomotives to run into continuous blocks and obstacles. i think we've even made it clear who, how and when they should be recognized. we've even given a little push, through the advancement of administrative silence... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr vice-president, commissioner barrot, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work on the various reports which represent a further step in the integration of the european railway area. we are faced with the challenge of achieving a european railway that is competitive, cost-effective, sustainable and safe - in short, a real alternative to other modes of transport, thus effecting the modal shift. however, the european railway of today still suffers from many problems that have not yet been overcome. we can travel by train from madrid to berlin; unfortunately, in a europe where we do have a single currency and an internal market, this journey would be a real odyssey, since we do not have an integrated railway area. the differences in track gauge between some countries, the lack of technological homogeneity and harmonisation of rolling stock and signalling systems, the disparities in the training and certification of locomotive drivers and the insurmountable difference in the voltages supplying the tracks all make rail transport less competitive and go against the spirit in which the transeuropean transport networks were planned, namely the achievement of a genuine internal transport market by building more europe. let me, ladies and gentlemen, briefly convey to parliament and the commissioner a well-known and serious problem which is endangering the connection of the iberian peninsula to the european rail network, especially on its mediterranean side. it is not just a spanish or french issue, but a european one. if we do not speed up our work in this area, we shall not overcome the insurmountable obstacle of the pyrenees in the medium term. i would like to call on the european commission and the commissioner to urge the spanish and french governments to solve this problem with a view to achieving a genuine european railway area. i know that spain is in a difficult situation at the moment, because there is a minister in question and a government in terminal form, but soon there will be another government and with it new hope. i urge that this problem, which is not spanish or french but european, be successfully resolved.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i think we have come a long way, and this has taken a lot of time and has involved the energies of many people, many members of parliament, many experts, even people outside this house who have followed this debate very closely because it touched them very closely. we should all be pleased that tomorrow, in principle, if there are no surprises, the text that results from all these negotiations and debates will be approved unanimously, perhaps even without being put to the vote, which is really proof that such a text could almost be approved by acclamation. so it is time to congratulate mrs hieronymi and the other fictitious rapporteurs, but especially mrs hieronymi and also, i must say, the commissioner. she said she felt like she had done her job. she's right, you know. now she can really feel that way. we will thus approve a very clear legal framework, clear rules which will make investment in audiovisual media safer and more certain, rules which will make it possible to extend to new digital means, to new means linked to new media, all that was essential with regard to consumer protection and the protection of minors, without at the same time duplicating or simply extending existing provisions, because the means are new and the responses of the law must be as new. these are rules which, in effect, make advertising more flexible. we know that. we have discussed it and we have given them our support. my group is the group which, on the whole, has made the greatest effort to ensure that this text can finally be adopted, because the european audiovisual model has not been denaturalised. we have never gone this far, but we know - and we must say it out loud, because we have also supported product placement, and we have done so in our heart and soul - that if we want free television from the point of view of the viewers - it is never free, but it is for the viewer - and if we do not want television, which is free as it is, to be paid for only by taxes, only by public finances, it must have the means to finance itself in a competitive environment. and it's in this context that we have authorized this product placement; we have made it transparent and we have made it very clear how and when it is to be done. so now it is time to put it into practice. i would ask the commission to take up its responsibilities too. true, the child leaves home, but he does not leave it completely. we must monitor this very closely and above all, madam commissioner, we must do something about an aspect which worries me. i would say that there is a feeling, pretty much everywhere in some member states, that between now and the time of implementation, there is no longer any regulation of television in europe. there is no law, shall we say? but that's not true. the directive on television without frontiers, which is still valid, already contained rules on advertising, rules on what one could and could not do. it seems to me that as long as the new regulation, as long as the new directive is not applied in the member states, what is already in force is not applied. and it is your responsibility and that of the commission to make it clear that this is wrong and that this is not the way to look at things.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank parliament for supporting the commission's proposal of last august. as the rapporteur, mr arif, emphasizes in his report, lebanon is in a very delicate situation, both politically and economically. his financial needs are urgent. the european union is also supporting the efforts of the lebanese authorities to establish a peaceful and stable government in the country. as you know, the implementation of the financial assistance is accompanied by considerable uncertainties in view of the political and constitutional crisis which has not yet been overcome. the commission, however, remains committed to completing all necessary internal procedures so that the aid can start as soon as circumstances permit. our discussions with the lebanese authorities on the policy conditions to be attached to the programme are nearing completion. i can assure you that these conditions will be fully in line with the objectives of the eu-lebanon action plan established under the european neighbourhood policy and with the medium-term economic reform programme of the lebanese authorities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i note that the rapporteur proposes amendments to the commission's proposal. we shall examine them carefully and inform the council of our position. i can tell you today that we will not object to most of the amendments to the actual legal provisions. the commission is aware that the european parliament has to respect tight deadlines when it is consulted on new grants. the tight timetable for all the institutions is due to the special nature of financial assistance as a crisis instrument. however, in order to mitigate the situation and improve cooperation with the inta committee, the commission undertakes to systematically inform the inta committee secretariat in advance of any new grant transactions by sending it an information note as soon as a new grant is envisaged.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, lebanon is experiencing a situation of extreme gravity and enormous tension, and it is clear that solutions must be found to the institutional crisis in that country. to that end, a working party of the committee on foreign affairs will be visiting the country next week to do what this parliament has always done: to give witness to the solidarity of our institution with the cause of peace, understanding, harmony, reconciliation and democratic consolidation in that country. and it is precisely in this context that mr arif's report on this macrofinancial assistance for lebanon is to be found. i would like to say that the committee on foreign affairs did not want to go into excessive technicalities, given the situation, as i said, of extreme gravity and tension in lebanon for the succession of president lahoud. in this respect, of course, we did want parliament's powers as the arm of the budgetary authority to be clearly respected, the utmost clarity and transparency, as the rapporteur was proposing, and, of course, respect for a correct and effective destination, avoiding any form of corruption, as commissioner verheugen has pointed out in his speech. in this sense, we believe that this macrofinancial assistance is in the spirit of the association agreement, or the association between the european union and the mediterranean countries, in the future framework of the neighbourhood policy and, of course, in the spirit of the obligations undertaken in the context of the agreements of the paris iii conference on the reconstruction and rehabilitation of lebanon and in the spirit of the agreements concluded with the international institutions.
member of the commission. madam president, the national electoral council has announced that a popular referendum on the proposal for constitutional reform made by the president of the bolivarian republic of venezuela and the national assembly will be held on 2 december 2007. on that day, the people of venezuela will have the opportunity to exercise their democratic right of decision on the proposed changes that would shape important aspects of the political, institutional, economic and social life of that country. the commission is closely following the ongoing constitutional reform process in venezuela, as well as in other countries in the region. it stresses the importance it attaches to the fact that each new constitution or constitutional reform should reinforce democracy and the rule of law. it also believes that each constitution should be based on a broad popular consensus and adequately reflect the plurality and diversity of each nation. constitutions should unite people and not divide them. the commission is following with interest the intensive debate on constitutional reform in venezuela. it has observed that some sectors of venezuelan society are in favour of the proposed changes, but also takes note of the strong opposition to the reform expressed by other sectors. those sectors are voicing concerns, notably on aspects of the reform which they consider would – if the reform were approved – entail an increased concentration of powers in the hands of the president, a weakening of democratic control mechanisms and of the existing institutions and a threat to democratic pluralism. others consider that what is proposed goes beyond a mere reform and implies modification of the fundamental structure of the state. the commission is aware of the situation and is paying due attention to it. while it considers that it is the people of venezuela who should themselves pronounce on the reform proposal, it also stresses the importance it attaches to the campaign on the reform being conducted in an open manner and in a spirit of mutual respect. it also expresses the hope that the referendum will take place in a peaceful atmosphere and in a transparent manner. in that context, it is worth noting that the recent electoral observation mission sent by the european union to the last presidential election in venezuela considered that the electoral process in general complied with international standards and national legislation and underlined the peaceful environment in which the elections were held.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in latin america, and i would like to thank the commission for its work in this area. in recent years, latin america as a whole has been experiencing positive trends that bring it even closer to europe: pluralist elections and democratic consolidation, growth with more balanced and open economic policies, regional integration processes and very important agreements with the european union. but there are exceptions to this positive picture: in addition to the traditional one in cuba, the one in venezuela is now emerging. it is in a process of increasing authoritarianism in which freedoms are restricted, the opposition is harassed and fear is created in the citizen, who even suspects that his vote is no longer secret. in this parliament we regret the closure of radio caracas televisión last may. on sunday, a constitutional referendum is hastily held, introducing an authoritarian and exclusive regime and proposing to establish what he calls "21st century socialism". a very close associate of chávez has until recently described the process as a "coup". i also regret that an eu election observation mission was not officially invited. on the other hand, the consultation is being held in a climate of violence and tension that has even cost the lives of students, who also reject the project. in addition, physical and legal insecurity, kidnappings and farm occupations have increased in recent years. in this environment, for example, my many fellow galicians are leaving at an average rate of about a thousand people a year since chávez came to power. emboldened by high oil prices, chávez seeks supporters and allies in other countries, shouts in international forums and intervenes in sovereign affairs of his neighbors. as uribe said, chavez wants to burn the continent. his attitude is a problem for the democratic stability of venezuela and for the process of integration and harmony in latin america, and also a disturbing factor in the relations between the countries of the continent and the european union, which have been growing over the last decade. in view of the forthcoming lima summit, chávez's positions constitute a serious challenge which should make the european union and its member states reflect.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, the first thing we have to do in this parliament, and in keeping with its own tradition of respect and non-interference, is not to contribute with our words to setting continents or third countries on fire. it is true what mr millan mon says that latin america has developed very positively in recent years, both in the political field - the vast majority of countries are democratic - and in the economic field, and also, although more modestly, in the social field. europe has played a major part in this development, through its enterprises, its investments and, above all, its development aid, the most important thing that occurs on this continent. it is true that in this general picture i would not say that there is an exception, but there is a special singularity in venezuela, because of the personality, also very unique, very own, of president chávez, which must not be forgotten - and much less in a democratic institution such as this - that he has been re-elected three times with large majorities and not with well-founded suspicions, in those cases, that there was electoral cheating. so in these circumstances - that is to say, we are not talking about a dictatorship - we must go with leaden feet and try to emphasize dialogue, the outstretched hand, and invite this country, which is fractured and divided - it is true - also to internal dialogue, consensus, reconciliation and the conviction that you cannot transform a country with a majority of 60 or 40%, that you cannot change the rules of the game without a broad consensus that brings together at least 70 or 80%, as has happened in other countries around us and on our old continent, in the european union. it is true that we are very concerned about the internal situation, for the reasons i have just mentioned: the drift or suspicion of an authoritarian drift, the concentration of power, the subsequent loss of the separation of powers, and also the reduction of freedom of expression, with a tool that is little known in europe, which is what they call 'on-chain', which allows the president or one of his ministers to order at any time the disconnection of all television channels and all radio stations so that the president's messages can be heard. and not for a minute or two: in exceptional cases, it is several hours a day when this circumstance occurs. in a country where few newspapers are read and television and radio are watched, this is a difficult circumstance. but, i insist - and i end - in view of this referendum, prudence, dialogue, a hand outstretched and an attempt to mediate between the two sectors confronted in venezuela are needed.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, i would ask the european right to stop meddling in venezuela. the european right does not like cuba because it says there are no elections, and it does not like venezuela because there are. it is one of the countries in latin america that has had the most elections, all of them supervised by the oas, the european union and prestigious foundations such as carter's. gentlemen on the right, what you don't like is the system. let us not get involved and respect a sovereign people who exercise their will freely and who will do so again, and let us not rush things. have we not agreed in the european union, as commissioner dimas has said, that the last presidential elections were held in complete purity? let's wait, see and respect what the people of venezuela say without any kind of interference, gentlemen of the right.
president of the court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am pleased to be able to take part in your debate today on the court of auditors' annual reports for the financial year 2006. i have already presented the annual reports to the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament on 12 november this year and to the economic and financial affairs council a day later. let me begin by giving a brief overview of the key findings of the 2006 annual reports. i come to the reliability of the 2006 financial statements. the consolidated accounts for the financial year 2006 present, in all material respects, a true and fair view of the communities' financial position and results for the year, with the exception of an overestimation of the settlement obligations and pre-financing in the balance sheet. the commission has made further progress in implementing accurate accounting, although some weaknesses remain. the court noted that the commission had made considerable efforts to address the weaknesses in risk management for eu finances. some changes are already being felt positively, for example in the agricultural sector. i now come to the question of legality and order. the court again gives a full audit opinion on the underlying transactions of revenue, commitments, administrative expenditure and, with the exception of sapard expenditure, expenditure under the pre-accession strategy. in addition, the allowances managed directly by the commission delegations in the external policy areas had a low error rate in 2006. however, the court again gives a negative audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the majority of eu expenditure. this mainly concerns the part of agricultural expenditure not covered by the integrated administration and control system, structural measures, internal policies and a substantial part of external policies. in these areas, payments to final beneficiaries continued to show a significant error rate, albeit to varying degrees. the court's findings on the budgetary areas with shared management are as follows: in the agricultural sector, which accounted for €49.8 billion in 2006, the court found a significant overall decline in the estimated overall error rate, although it is still just above the materiality threshold. if properly applied, the invekos, which covers about 70% of agricultural expenditure, can effectively reduce the risk of irregular expenditure. financial corrections to agricultural payments, such as the annual conformity decisions taken by the commission in the context of the clearance of accounts procedure, involve large amounts of money which member states have to pay back to the community budget as corrections or fines for failing to put in place adequate systems. these recoveries for the community budget are still financed by national taxpayers and not by the beneficiaries who have improperly received community funds. in addition to highlighting problem areas by presenting illustrative cases, the court also considers it its task to highlight developments which may be of interest to policy makers. the court of justice has pointed out that, while the single payment scheme simplifies the application and payment procedures, it also has side effects, such as the allocation of entitlements to landowners who have never been engaged in agricultural activity before. although legally permissible, this results in a significant redistribution of eu aid from farmers to landowners. the new beneficiaries of agricultural aid include railway companies, equestrian clubs, horse breeding companies, golf and leisure clubs and local authorities. in addition, legislation on the single payment scheme left member states with a wide margin of discretion in allocating entitlements, which led to unequal treatment of beneficiaries. the situation with regard to structural measures amounting to eur 32.4 billion in 2006 remains unchanged from previous years. the court found a significant error rate, which it estimated to be at least 12% of the total amount of refunds to beneficiaries. the most common errors were that reimbursement of ineligible expenditure was requested and no calls for tender were made. moreover, there was no supporting documentation for the calculation of overheads or personnel costs. the court considers that the commission should set a good example in the spending it manages directly, i.e. internal and external policy areas. while some improvements are being made, for example, the internal policy areas managed by the commission, which accounted for eur 9 billion in 2006, are again showing a significant error rate. the main reason was the reimbursement of beneficiaries who had provided exaggerated information on the project costs. the errors in the underlying processes are attributable to, among other things, negligence, insufficient knowledge of the often complex rules and alleged fraud by applicants to the detriment of the eu budget. moreover, in the area of agricultural expenditure not covered by the invekos and in the area of structural and internal policy expenditure, the checks on payment applications, which are mainly based on information from beneficiaries, are in many cases inadequate in terms of number and coverage and often of poor quality. in recent years, the commission has taken measures to strengthen recovery and to improve the protection of the eu's financial interests. however, due to the complexity of the procedures, the commission is still not reliably informed about the amounts and beneficiaries of unduly paid funds and the financial impact on the eu budget. in fact, only six member states have complied with the commission's request to report on the recovery of irregular payments made in november last year. in its 'one audit' model, the court recommended the establishment of an efficient framework for all internal control systems for eu funds. all systems should be based on common principles and specifications, taking into account the inherent risks and ensuring a fair balance between the costs of control and the benefits. the most important recent innovation is the obligation for member states to provide annual summaries of their audit and control results. there were also voluntary initiatives by audit bodies in some member states to produce 'national declarations' and audit reports on the use of eu funds at national level. the court considers that the national declarations and the national audit work could have a positive impact on raising awareness within the member states of the importance of internal control of eu funds. in its opinion no 6/2007, the court stated that such procedures could increase the sense of responsibility at national level in relation to the management of eu funds. the commission also identified shortcomings and examples of good practice to be addressed and increased transparency and accountability in financial management. the court also continues to play an active role in promoting cooperation with the supreme audit authorities in the european union and has taken the lead in a new working group on eu-compatible common audit standards and comparable audit standards. i 'm coming to the conclusion: despite the commission's considerable efforts to address the risk management weaknesses in eu finances, the court again issues a negative audit opinion with regard to the legality and regularity of transactions in the majority of budgetary areas. improvements were mainly observed in the agricultural sector. the high error rate in the underlying transactions is partly due to the fact that beneficiaries sometimes claim excessive costs in their refund applications due to complex legal requirements and regulations and unclear criteria, but also to persistent internal control deficiencies. the basic prerequisite for effective budgetary management is the existence of reliable internal control systems at all administrative levels in all member states and beneficiary countries. i believe that european citizens have a right to see eu funds properly managed and controlled throughout the union.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the commission welcomes the court’s report and the comments from president weber. overall, the court’s annual report for 2006 gives a more positive assessment than its 2005 edition. thanks to the court’s system of traffic lights, it is now possible to measure progress in detail. the court’s report sets out, from one spending area to another, where our systems are considered satisfactory and where the errors found are below the court’s materiality threshold of 2%. comparing this with previous years, the commission is pleased that in total the court has now given its green light to over 40% of total payments, compared to roughly a third last year and only 6% two years ago. that is real progress towards our common goal of getting a positive statement of assurance (das). the court also reports improvements in internal policies, such as research programmes, and external actions. the court said that our 2006 accounts are true and fair in all material respects, except for certain small overstatements, comprising 0.13% of operating expenditure. the court recognises that the commission has made considerable efforts to address the weaknesses in the management of the risks to eu funds. overall, though, there is, again, a negative das concerning the legality and regularity of transactions. while we are moving in the right direction, i would therefore like to focus on the major stumbling block on our road to a positive das. the big remaining challenge is to ensure that structural policies are properly implemented. for spending on structural policies – eur 32.4 billion in 2006 – the situation remains similar to previous years, and the court has again identified the material level of error. the most frequent errors were claims for ineligible expenditure and failure to carry out tender procedures, as well as a lack of evidence to support the calculation of the overheads or the staff costs involved. the court goes on to say that it is reasonably confident that at least 12% of structural and cohesion fund payments in 2006 should not have been reimbursed. we agree that there are real problems in this area. the commission’s own synthesis report for 2006 stated that it did not have confidence in the systems for managing structural funds in parts of italy, latvia, slovakia, slovenia, spain, sweden and the united kingdom. reserves were expressed by the directors-general in their annual activity reports. the court looked at a sample of 19 regions in 2006, and found none to be fully effective. the court found various control systems to be ineffective in england, france, germany, greece, italy, poland, portugal, scotland, slovenia and spain, and for the interreg project between austria and hungary. we believe things will improve under the new legislation, but this will not reduce the continuing high risk for payments made to the 2000-2006 programmes, where the situation remains critical up to their closure in 2009-2010. we need to act together on this state of affairs. i have written to the council president, the member states and the european parliament, setting out the additional efforts the commission will make. at the ecofin meeting earlier this month, i also called on member states to fulfil their responsibility to provide annual summaries of audit and declarations by 15 february 2008. that was the deal we reached with parliament and the council when adopting the revised financial regulation. the annual summary has to be more than just another reporting exercise without added value. it must provide real analytical information for the commission to use in giving assurance to the court and parliament about the state of controls in each member state. the 2006 discharge hearing that the committee on budgetary control has organised for 18 december 2007 for the main structural fund commissioners will be attended by representatives of the national budgetary control committees. the commission welcomes that innovation and hopes it will help mobilise commitment at national level to improve the management of eu funds. we need to follow a policy of warn, solve or suspend. the commission has stated its intention to suspend structural fund payments where the commission cannot obtain the necessary assurance that member state systems are working well. that may lead the commission to take a few unpopular decisions, but it has reached the conclusion that progress will be too slow if we do not display a sense of urgency. before concluding, let me say a few words about how the media covered this year’s report. over the last two weeks, the commission has been asked by journalists to comment on two main points. first, it has been asked to comment on the court’s findings that golf clubs and other bodies not formally associated with farming received eu subsidies last year. an otherwise serious newspaper ran the headline ‘eu aid for poor misspent on golf clubs’. it managed to get three facts wrong in only eight words. let me clarify. firstly, farm subsidies are not aid for the poor; secondly, the aid in question was not spent on golf clubs, but as subsidies for eligible agricultural activities – in these cases on adjoining land owned by different owners. it follows that, thirdly, the money was not misspent, but was in fact both legal and regular expenditure, which the court is not questioning. rather, the court has drawn attention to a policy issue and to the end result of an agreed policy: the introduction of the single-payment scheme. we welcome such discussions and, as honourable members will be aware, this commission has worked hard to achieve full transparency on the beneficiaries of eu funds, which it believes is leading to better-informed policy discussions, such as the common agricultural policy health checks launched by my colleague, marian fischer boel, earlier this month. the same approach lies behind the commission’s initiative of sending the supreme audit institutions in all member states a complete list of all the payments made to recipients in that member state. regrettably, in some media reports, this golf club issue has entirely overshadowed the court’s statement that agriculture is an area in which the commission and the member states have made most progress, and for which the court came very close to giving an overall green light. that is why i felt a need to clarify this today. the second issue is that 12% of structural funds, according to the court, should not have been reimbursed. most journalists have picked up on the court seeing this as a problem when almost eur 4 billion was paid out last year. this point also needs explaining. there is no clear picture as to whether the funds were lost or stolen, and whether the errors are systemic or one-off errors. it therefore falls to the commission to explain the 12%. in this speech i have given some explanations, and pointed to some of the problems we face and the action we intend to take. my colleagues, commissioners hübner and špidla, will elaborate further in their committee on budgetary control hearings next month. as a final remark, i wish to stress that, despite some of the media coverage, we believe the court report does in fact help us to focus on the real issues. the commission is working hard to ensure that improvements are made on these key points.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i am grateful to you for being in this debate, and for the importance you attach to the scrutiny of the accounts by this parliament, with vice-president kallas and mr hubert weber, but where is the council? where is a speaker now who can say what the council is doing about all the suggestions and all the references that both the president of the court of auditors and vice-president kallas and myself are making to the council? who's going to answer us? where is the council? thank you, mr president, for being present at this debate. (applause from some quarters) i should like to begin by thanking the court of auditors for the excellent work it has done, especially chapter 2 of its document, which is very well done. you are doing an increasingly good job and helping not only this parliament but the ordinary citizen to give credibility to the money that it costs to maintain the european union. the farmers should be given a top prize, because now that we are reducing direct deliveries to them they have managed to significantly improve how well they manage the money they receive. however, the way the structural funds are going should be suspended. three years ago this parliament said that the council, the great absentee, had to be involved in order to give an account of how it spends the bulk of the budget it manages. one thing is clear: member states are now obliged, under the new financial regulation, to submit their national management declaration summaries. it's not optional, it's required. they must do so by the middle of next february, and we know - and we support commissioner kallas on this - that the member states are resisting: it seems that they are not accountable. they have an obligation, they are the first to set an example. you said that only six member states are aware of how they are recovering the funds. this is outrageous, it deserves a headline: only six member states tell us what they are doing to recover funds which they have misused. that is outrageous. in short, i want to tell you that this parliament will continue its work; you continue yours. you and commissioner kallas have our full support in continuing to move towards the goal of a positive declaration, and we take our share of the blame for those procedures which are particularly difficult to implement; we are to blame for that, because sometimes we ask for impossible things. we offer our cooperation to simplify as much as possible. thank you very much, mr president of the court of auditors, for your excellent report.
president of the court of auditors. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i should like to thank the court of auditors very much for the many kind words it has spoken to us, for its report and its presentation. i consider this very important, and i shall be glad to take it with me to luxembourg. i think it's a very big motivation boost for our staff as well. i am also glad that the new beneficiaries of the agricultural policy have been addressed very often. i think i have the opportunity here to make some clarifications. i have also been directly asked to do so by mr staes. i need to get a little bit further. the single payment scheme is in itself something that the court of auditors has welcomed from the outset. this is a substantial simplification and we can see the consequences. in conjunction with invekas, it has led to a significant reduction in the error rate. but of course, whenever new regulations are created, there is always the possibility of not complying with the rules. we should also look at this area and not just deal with one phenomenon. for example, that the 10-month deadline is violated, which leads to huge financial losses. we must also note, of course, that the regulations have been formulated in a very broad way and that the member states have a great deal of scope for their own design. this has led to certain phenomena. there are the so-called side effects, those that may have less financial consequences, but perhaps have been a little more noticed by the public. it should also be noted that the term 'agricultural activity' as a whole is very broad. today, it is enough to treat an area well in agricultural and ecological terms. all you have to do is mow the lawn and get a favor. we wanted to show this to you to question it. we have 700 cases in total, so i cannot say today whether all the cases are legally relevant, because that will have to be examined individually. certainly, if a golf course is also promoted for the area that serves the game, it would certainly not be legal. but as i said, we have to deal with this on a case-by-case basis, and the commission is invited to do so. but i said there are other effects. the introduction of a dynamic model means that a redistribution will take place from the farmers to the land owners. i am very glad that we were also asked to record the consequences of a policy.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for their comments. the main issue, which is that of better governance of the structural funds, will be discussed in detail during the hearings in the committee on budgetary control on 18 december. these will be followed by extensive hearings concerning overall governance and internal control systems in january. thank you again for your comments. the commission will be ready to answer all your questions in more detail during the hearings.
this closes this spot. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the joint debate on seven reports by mrs ayala sender of the committee on budgetary control on the proposals for the appointment of mr david bostock, mr michel cretin, mr maarten b. engwirda, mr henri grethen, mr harald noack, mr ioannis sarmas and mr hubert weber as members of the court of auditors.
the rapporteur. mr president, as you know, the members of the court of auditors are appointed by the council for a term of six years after consulting parliament. the committee on budgetary control is responsible for preparing parliament's opinion. the court currently has 27 members from the member states of the union and we are now preparing to renew the mandate of four candidates: mr david bostock for the united kingdom, mr maarten b. engwirda for the netherlands, mr ioannis sarmas for greece and mr hubert weber for austria, and to propose three new members, mr michel cretin for france, mr henri grethen for luxembourg and mr harald noack for germany. during the hearings in the committee on budgetary control all of them have received support, although not all of them unanimously. in any case, we shall see that, apart from some clarifications, my final proposal in principle will be, if there is no new development, to support all these members. of the three new candidates, i would like to highlight the good result achieved by mr cretin, the french candidate, who will bring his considerable experience in international auditing, both at the un and at nato. this was something that the members of the committee on budgetary control particularly appreciated. the most important issue in the proceedings of the four members presenting themselves for renewal was their views on the self-evaluation process launched by the court of auditors, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2008, and the contribution of each candidate to the current reflection on the need to reform the court's organisation, especially after enlargement, as it currently has a college of 27 members, and with the aim, moreover, of increasing its efficiency and updating. i would like to highlight the good results achieved in this respect by mr sarmas, who achieved unanimity in the committee, i suppose because of his excellent cooperation during the discharge procedure. the agreement between mr engwirda and the dutch government, which was not entirely transparent, also aroused some suspicions in the committee. as regards the candidate, mr weber, the present president of the court, i should like to clarify before the vote a point which is of particular concern to me and which has arisen after the hearing in the committee on budgetary control, and i therefore believe that this debate offers us an excellent opportunity to clarify it. mr president, in this connection, i would ask you to give the floor to mr weber at the end of my speech so that he can clarify the following:on 13 november 2007, on bbc news, following the presentation of the annual report of the court chaired by mr weber, statements appeared from a former chief accountant of the commission stating that 80% of the community budget is still under suspicion. immediately following this is a statement by mr weber, quoted in quotes, saying that the approach by which this conclusion is reached is the most orthodox, although the statement - different, of course, from that of commissioner kallas - is also valid. i would like to ask mr weber to clarify whether he confirms these statements as his own and, if not, i would ask him to publish a refutation and send us a copy of it to the house, to avoid the damage that this kind of contradiction causes to public opinion and to citizens. i would also like to return to the content of my report and express my frustration that the council has once again - and i would point out again the absence of the council at this sitting - ignored the criteria which parliament set out in a resolution of 1992 in order to ensure greater transparency. in two cases the council has essentially ignored the recommendation not to exceed two terms, which totals 12 years of service at the court of auditors. but even worse is the council's indifference to parliament's recommendation to move towards a better balance of men and women among the members of the court. if, until now, there were 5 women among the 27 members, from now on they will be reduced to 4. in this respect, i think that the council should take special measures once and for all. we therefore call on the council to recognize the great importance of good relations between parliament and the court of justice for the smooth running of the court. we should therefore receive the council's proposal, the nomination proposals, more quickly and be able to cooperate more closely with its members in the pre-decision phase. and, more importantly, we remind the council of the need to respect the opinion of the european parliament in order to avoid what happened in 2004, when one of the members voted against, and the council totally ignored it. as regards the future of the court, i would like to mention the widespread concern among members of the european parliament about the effectiveness of a body of this importance run by a college of up to 27 members. we therefore look forward to the outcome of the court's self-evaluation exercise; indeed, in my report i recommend that parliament study it carefully, by the end of 2008, when it takes place, and take a position on the different options. but in the meantime there is room for improvement, and i therefore invite the court of auditors to use all the means at its disposal to streamline and speed up its work, in particular to use the possibilities offered by the present treaty: the possibility, for example, of adopting reports by majority vote and not always by consensus, and also the possibility of establishing competent chambers for certain reports which should not therefore be dealt with by the whole college. i would therefore recommend that parliament, by adopting the proposal to give the floor to members, should express the wish that we should at least have a clearer understanding of what i have proposed above.
thank you, mrs ayala. since mr weber is not present, i hope that the question you have put to him will be forwarded by one of his colleagues so that mr weber can really answer your question.
we think it appropriate to give the floor to mr weber, if he wishes to comment or react to the question put to him by the rapporteur for this debate, mrs ayala. mr weber, would you take the floor for a moment?
president of the court of auditors. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was already outside the courtroom when that question was asked. i would like to clarify this point. in an interview with the bbc, it was claimed that i had taken mrs andreasen's side. i can only say that i gave an interview to the bbc, and the name andreasen was not mentioned at all. i have two employees who are here today who can testify to that. and above all, there is another important question. i was told that 80% of the population was in the red, if i may put it simply. i said the exact opposite. the journalist, who is of course free to express his views, asked me if i had a problem with mr kallas saying that 40% of the area is green. i said i had no problem with it. i want to make it clear that there is no difference in approach between mr kallas and myself. percentages are always up for debate. it may be higher than 40%, but as i said, i did not mention the figure of 80 in my speech. i have not referred to mrs andreasen, because this is a discussion between the commission and mrs andreasen. the court of auditors is not involved in this. thank you very much for this opportunity.
i thank you for your clarification, which answers the rapporteur's concern. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place this morning, at 11 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr dumitrescu, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the law applicable to contractual obligations (rome 1) (a6-0450/2007).
i take this opportunity to wish you, mr dumitrescu, every success and happiness in your work, when you actually leave the seat you have occupied with the utmost dignity for all these months.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i think this is a good example of the proper functioning of the european institutions. despite the institutional complexity we have here, parliament, the commission and the council are working well and i hope that, after a satisfactory vote in this parliament's plenary, a resolution can be reached at first reading without further delay. i am grateful to commissioner frattini for his intervention in facilitating the solution and i congratulate the rapporteur on the great work he has done to achieve this agreement. as has been said repeatedly, the focus of the discussion we have had here has been on article 5, which concerns the protection of consumer rights. the consumer is not on an equal footing in matters of contract; normally, the consumer is at a disadvantage. i will simply give the example of a person who has to sign a contract for the rental of a car at an airport: the consumer has no possibility of reading the contents of the contract, he does not know to which law he is subject and, if there is no legal protection, he is absolutely in the hands of the person who proposes the contract to him. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is that, without renouncing the principle of the choice of law, there can always be a system of consumer protection, which is reflected today in the formula - which was offered to us, incidentally, by the council - that the choice cannot entail for the consumer the loss of the protection afforded to him by the inalienable provisions of a contract under the law which, in the absence of a choice, would have been applicable under paragraph 1. the great problem we have here in the european union is the lack of harmonisation of substantive law. these forms of conflict-of-law enforcement are only subsidiary forms, and we hope that the commission will continue its legislative work by proposing texts which will give us material protection for the consumer, uniform throughout the european union, which will not make us resort to these complicated forms of conflict of laws.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. today. (the sitting was suspended at 10.50 a.m. and resumed at 11 a.m.)
mr president, thank you for your opening remarks on the terrorism suffered by two young spaniards, which unite the whole house. thank you very much, mr. president. i would like to remind you that on 16 may two spaniards, miguel ángel lópez and edén galván, were arrested in riga, together with five portuguese nationals, for taking latvian flags which were hanging from lampposts. they had no intention of offending; they had no legal assistance until the preliminary hearing, at which they had no interpreter and only a few seconds of counsel. they were beaten by the police, they were incommunicado. one of them went a week without medication for his illness. some spent 13 days in prison before being released without charge. michelangelo and eden, 19. this nightmare ended with a fine of €4,000 each last november. i know that other disproportionate treatment has been given for alleged offences against latvian symbols: it seems to me of the utmost gravity. i ask the president, who is sensitive to human rights, to address a letter to the latvian president on this human rights day expressing our deep concern.
mr president, i too join in the thanks for your words on the murder of the two civil guards in capbreton. i would also like to express my regret at the disappointing spectacle which this house has given during the visit of the president of the spanish government, mr josé luis rodríguez zapatero. it is difficult to understand, as a spaniard and as the representative of the european citizens in this parliament, that our institution should invite the spanish president and then not do everything possible to ensure an honourable presence, something which was particularly noticeable among the ranks of the majority group, as the slogan was almost brushed off, which was the subject of comments in the media of my country. i think we have missed a great opportunity to make the europeanist ties between this parliament and the spanish people, who were represented here by their prime minister that day, more visible. and this institution did not live up to the hospitality that spanish and european citizens could expect. fortunately, with a generous temper and militant parliamentarism, the spanish president took note of the height and richness of the debate and the excellent reception of the other groups, as well as the massive presence of spanish citizens who welcomed him in the council offices. i trust that your long experience, mr president, and your present responsibility as president of this house, will tell you what you must do to erase this sad impression and to ensure that it does not happen again.
mr president, i thank you for your institutional statement against the murders by eta. turning to the question, i should like to say that last week i had the opportunity to interview mrs yolanda pulecio, the mother of ingrid betancourt, who, as you know, has been kidnapped by the farc since 2001. he conveyed to me - and i convey to you, to parliament, to the commission, to the european institutions - the need for the union to play a fundamental role in supporting the mediation of both hugo chávez, president of venezuela, and president sarkozy of france. on 9 october, the european institutions, through the portuguese presidency, also supported this mediation. it is very important because it opens up a possible path to mediation, to end the ordeal of many hostages who have been kidnapped for a long time and to start a normalisation of the conflict in colombia. i therefore ask the european institutions not to take this call from mrs yolanda pulecio, ingrid betancourt's mother, lightly. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, without being too dramatic, we are faced with a problem which affects the whole union. to give just one example: every day 40 000 containers of goods enter spain; many thousands of these containers are toys. we wonder whether the authorized economic operator system, which will be introduced as from 1 january 2008, will really facilitate effective action to deal with the commercial practices that have been so often reported as harmful to children's health. in its resolution of 26 september on the safety of products, and in particular of toys, the european parliament has already called on the commission and the member states to take measures to ensure that consumer goods placed on the market do not present health risks. it is time to speed up the adoption of the necessary measures to give effect to the european parliament's resolution. the control and surveillance of the markets just mentioned must be improved. in times of globalization, toys are not just another commodity. in the absence of controls, we will find ourselves faced with the repetition of events which have been repeatedly denounced, and which again and again constitute commercial dumping, and which can seriously affect the health of consumers, especially children.
on behalf of the pse group. the fact that we are here at this late hour of the day discussing the common frame of reference is an indication that at least those of us here have a huge interest in the subject and the commissioner herself has indicated her and other commissioners' interest in the subject. i think, and we all think, that the procedure used by the commission is the right one. before embarking on a draft codification, it is important to know the elements of it from an academic point of view, and we think that the initiative is a great initiative: not to simply launch into legislative proposals without having studied them beforehand. i think the outcome can be pretty good. as regards the second part, however, what concerns us - some of the members work in or are part of the parliamentary group which follows the common frame of reference - is that we find that the accumulated materials are apparently so important today that the selection seems difficult. my colleague, mr lehne, has referred to the time frame, that is to say that although the codification project is a long-range project, it is nevertheless desirable that we should at least begin to look at the guidelines of that project. the idea of a framework directive on this issue seems to be a good starting point. in any case, it is clear that what we have done in recent years in the direction of harmonization by means of procedure, legislation, recognition and enforcement of judgments is useful but has enormous limitations. european law in general, and contractual law in particular, can only be developed by establishing certain principles. i think that parliament can be a great instrument for the commission to use, because it represents the different legal systems, the different national legislations, and it can be a great reference framework for seeing to what extent the proposals for harmonization will ultimately clash with the national legal systems. the harmonization of the european union is quite difficult for reasons which we all know, but the correct procedure is the one undertaken by the commission, with the first academic part and a second legislative part. what we are telling the commission at the moment is that we in parliament feel a certain pressure of time, because the construction of europe is under way: european citizens are faced every day with practical problems which can only be solved by a harmonization of a legal nature. these practical problems were identified by the commissioner herself when she presented her proposals for the harmonization of contract law in the field of consumer protection, which is one aspect, but it is a rather important one, because, after all, in the european union we are all consumers and, in some ways, it is a great principle for acting. i do not think it is a question of formulating a purely theoretical contractual framework. as far as possible, concrete is the most useful. my colleague mr lehne has referred to the establishment of some kind of optional document. the model would be a bit like the united states uniform commercial code, which has been said to be the least unifying code of all, the one that gives the least possibility of unification. it's a possibility, but perhaps the most important thing is to see those principles that can be recognized by the whole of the systems, and really that data we'll only have once we study and take into account what the academics bring to us. i therefore believe, madam commissioner, that parliament will be a good partner in the further development and that we are already impatient to get down to work here, so that in the year and a half that remains of the legislature we can make a positive contribution to that legislative development.
the next item is the report by giuseppe castiglione, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine and amending certain regulations (com (2007) 372 - c6-0254/2007 - 2007/0138 (cns)) (a6-0477/2007).
mr president, next weekend the council of agriculture ministers will probably have reached a political decision on this reform of the wine cmo. in the case of wine, it is not just a foodstuff but also an economic gem in the agricultural sector, which has been severely punished by the decisions taken by the commission in recent years. we are on time for the first time in a long time: parliament is going to draw up a report which can be used by the council to determine, in the end, its political decision this weekend. and i am really very pleased about that and i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done because, for the first time, this parliament has decided to bet on quality, on culture, on tradition, on a mediterranean product which has also been taken to other european regions and which makes us great not only on a continental level but also on a global level. our wine - and i have no doubt about that, ladies and gentlemen - is the best in the world; european wine is the best in the world. that's why we have to protect him and we have to bet on promotion. promotion of our wines not only outside the union but also within it, because the european youth has stopped drinking wine in recent years. why did you stop drinking wine? because we haven't bothered to promote it and encourage them to do it. we must provide the sector with the tools to remain competitive not only within the union but also outside it. to promote consumption and to involve young people and the whole of european society in a culture, that of wine tourism, that of wine consumption, that of 'know-how' and that of speaking and participating in society. there is a lack of money for rural development, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a political decision taken in december 2005 which does not provide sufficient money for the second pillar. but it is not at the expense of the cmos that money must be extracted, but by encouraging the member states to contribute a little more from their national budgets to the community budget. we are not going to close a gap as large as that of rural development in the european budget of these financial perspectives by taking money from farmers. as regards planting rights, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the sector itself must be given the tools to self-regulate and the tools must be legal, and the legal tools must come from here to continue protecting planting rights that allow production to be controlled, where it is already being shown that it can be profitable to control such production as in the highly controlled designations of origin. the commitments must be respected and we shall therefore vote against all the amendments tabled and, above all, against those which do not respect the commitments signed earlier, and i am referring to the socialist group.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr castiglione, the rapporteur for this parliament, on the excellent work he has done and because his report has the virtue of reflecting many of the concerns which have been expressed not only by us as members of the european parliament but also by the european wine sector itself. commissioner, since you put forward this proposal for a new wine cmo, things have changed, some much, some less, but i think that many of the changes that have taken place have been for the better. for example, the start-up phase is no longer the focus of the reform, and i was pleased to hear you say a moment ago that the commission is already working on this measure with a three-year horizon, as parliament is asking, and not with a five-year horizon, as you proposed. this reform of a common agricultural policy so important for european agriculture has - as we have said from the outset - very positive aspects, and i would like to acknowledge that to you. for example, the simplification and flexibility of the rules, which will enable us to be more competitive, or also - and mrs herranz has already mentioned this - the promotion of european wines within and outside our continent. the commission's proposal to remove the current market measures and replace them with a menu to be included in national support programmes has been subject to many amendments. it is clear that market measures have contributed and still contribute to maintaining a level of income for farmers and economic activity in rural areas. in this connection, i wanted to table a new amendment, without jeopardizing mr castiglione's commitment, to include direct aid for diversification, aid which the member states would have the opportunity to collect from their national allocations in order to facilitate the transition of farmers to the new common agricultural policy and the duration and modalities of which would be decided by the management committee. commissioner, i believe that for those who have been accustomed to working within this common fisheries policy and with the support of the current market measures, this is the way to make it easier for them to diversify and also the way to make it easier for them to join this new common fisheries policy, which i hope this parliament will approve tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, i shall focus on planting rights, because, as is well known, the reform aims to liberalise the market by 2013 by eliminating planting rights, while freezing funds and not offering a real alternative to the 2.4 million european wine growers. all this would eliminate small and medium-sized winegrowers at a stroke and leave, once again, a market so culturally ours in the hands of just under half a dozen multinationals. i consider this unacceptable. does the commission not realise that the most prominent defenders of planting rights are those appellations, such as my own rioja, which produce the most and the best quality wine, sell the most and export the most? i am from navarre, where liberalization is already a fact: planting rights are worth nothing, but while in navarre a kilo of grapes is sold for 15 cents, in la rioja, just 10 kilometres away, that kilo is worth more than one euro. while la rioja sells everything, in navarre we have to go to crisis distilleries. so it is undeniable that the gradual elimination of protectionism is a good thing, but it must not be turned into dogma. the commission has not submitted a single serious report showing that liberalisation, that the abolition of these duties in 2013 or whenever, will benefit the wine market.
in writing. the spanish socialist delegation voted in favour of the ek report on the creation of the clean sky joint undertaking, but wants to make it clear that the fundamental principles of openness and transparency must be strictly respected in all joint technology initiatives. in particular, with regard to 'clean sky', the spanish socialist delegation has always defended the need to hold open and competitive calls to ensure equal access for participants from all member states on the basis of excellence. the spanish socialist delegation therefore wishes to note that 'clean sky' should not set a precedent for future joint technology initiatives or other instruments of the 7th framework programme and considers it essential to ensure the participation of all member states on an equal footing.
the following is the report by kyösti virrankoski and ville itälä, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2008, as amended by the council (all sections) and on amending notes no 1/2008 (13659/2007 c6-0341/2007) and no 2/2008 (15716/2007 c6-0435/2007) to the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2008 (a6-0492/2007).
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the paper i have from the secretariat indicates that there are two rapporteurs and that they have two and a half minutes each. let us see, ladies and gentlemen, we are not, as sometimes happens, dealing with a joint debate on two reports in which one rapporteur speaks for each report. we are dealing with a report with two parts, and therefore the two of us will share the five minutes. in any case, mr virrankoski, you take the floor, try to summarize. i am, as all the members know, a very flexible person with regard to the use of time, and therefore i ask you to join the debate because we have already lost a minute and a half with this interruption.
i am very grateful to mr virrankoski and i ask him to forgive me for the misunderstanding which may have caused him to speak too quickly because of the time.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, rapporteurs, colleagues, this is a good draft budget and we must therefore congratulate ourselves on it. but enough has been said about what is inside the project. i would like to congratulate you on two points, namely on budgetary implementation and on the success of the conciliation procedure. starting with implementation, i think that this year we have added value to the money we have spent in the budget, we have better compliance with commitments, there has been good collaboration and good exchange of information with the european commission. i think we can say that, for most of the budget lines, implementation throughout 2007 has been good and that allows us, among other things, to set the level of reserves before the commission lower in 2008 than in other years and therefore to have a much smoother procedure, even knowing that we are in one of the first years of financial programming, the new period of the financial perspective, and that this makes the implementation of the structural funds a little slow, but i am sure that it will pick up speed. as regards the conciliation we have had, which has been the basis of this good agreement, i would like to congratulate the european commission once again on the help it has given us, the commissioner, the parliament's delegation and, of course, the portuguese presidency, which has worked in a cohesive manner, which has been a real team, its members even come here with the same tie, which means that they are really a good team and, thanks to them, we have really managed to finance technological development and we have managed to protect the taxpayers by not using payment appropriations excessively. we should not change this formula in successive years and we must always bear in mind for future budgetary conciliations that this is a parliament which represents the people and whose will is expressed through the political groups. and let us not forget that the budget itself is a political act.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i want to make three quick comments on this ninth report and then a brief reflection on future reports. the comments are positive. first, it should be noted that although this report follows the structure of previous editions, there is a greater concern about the detailed analysis. some issues are even examined from a dual perspective, the geographical and the thematic, and this is positive. secondly, there is also the greater emphasis in the report on the abolition of the death penalty, torture, the rights of children and greater zeal in the protection of human rights defenders. we should also welcome the fact that there is increasing recognition of the particular vulnerability of women to abuse and therefore the need for stronger action to protect them. the third comment is that this report covers the period of the first year of the human rights council's existence in the united nations. the union has actively contributed to the promotion of the universal periodic review mechanism within the union, and this can create a genuinely positive synergy. finally, a reflection which is partly in line with what my colleague, mrs andrikienė, has said. we are making progress in drawing up a diagnosis which is becoming more complete each year, but we still have a long way to go before this comprehensive and insightful analysis is translated into more tangible and effective results of european union action. it is therefore necessary to develop a conceptual and analytical framework which also allows us to evaluate our own instruments. the way in which we approach dialogues with third countries, conditionality, the terms of speech we use to denounce situations, whether or not we apply double standards, depending on the size or strategic importance of a particular country, we believe that all this should be subjected to examination, and i hope that it will be addressed in the annual reports of future editions. (applause) i would like to thank
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, very shortly. firstly, on the form and the report we are discussing here, and which has been presented to you, to thank you for your support, but more than support, for the recognition of the work done by the council, the commission and also the general secretariat of the council in the drafting and preparation of the report itself and in what it contains. what we heard was indeed good to hear, acknowledging the detail, acknowledging the merits, acknowledging the effort we have put into this report and also criticizing, suggesting, in particular, that we could, here and there, improve the analysis and, a little further on, on the causes and consequences. it is clear that this report is already moving in that direction, that it is more analytical, or that it intends to be more analytical, than the previous reports - and there is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that we will continue along this line in accordance with the advice and the suggestion of the european parliament. and then the substance. there was a member here who said that europe has done something, or has done a lot. there's still a way to go. i believe that europe, which is perhaps the greatest area of freedom, justice, human rights and the rule of law, has made a consistent and permanent progress in defending human rights ever more strongly and consistently. but it is clear that there is always a way forward, because there is never an end to freedom and human rights: there's always something to defend, to develop, to protect, to safeguard. but we must recognize that, both internally and externally, the european union has done a great deal. a recent case was mentioned here: the decisions or measures we have taken in the field of, for example, the protection of children's rights. we did it. but i would also like to mention four or five initiatives in the field of human rights which are undeniable proof of what the union is trying to do in defence of these same human rights. tomorrow we will solemnly proclaim the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the european union this semester succeeded in securing a resolution at the united nations on a moratorium on the death penalty. we have created, and are in the final stages of establishing, so to speak, the european agency for fundamental rights. we have also established a european day for the abolition of the death penalty. these are concrete, specific, recent examples of how our work in defence of human rights is being continued, how it is persistent, how it seeks to be solid. there will be defects, there will be measures or actions or attitudes that will eventually be less perfect - certainly! but let us also acknowledge what we have done well, what we have done right in this matter. but also in external action itself the europe-africa summit was mentioned here - it will be a subject which we will deal with later. there is no doubt that the issue of human rights and good governance was an important, very important issue in the dialogue we established in lisbon in the framework of the europe-africa summit. and all members know, as do the citizens of europe, that in our dialogue with third countries the question of defending human rights is a permanent theme and a priority theme on our agenda and in our bilateral dialogue. this is evidenced by the condemnation we have made of human rights violations in third countries, by the measures we have taken in response to human rights violations in third countries, in particular by adopting sanctions precisely aimed at preventing such violations from continuing. let us therefore acknowledge our merit. so let us acknowledge the effort we have made. of course, we can also correct what can be corrected, but let us have a confident view of this subject, a positive view and a view that we are on the right track in accordance with our humanistic traditions.
member of the commission. mr president, before responding to some of the issues that have been mentioned here in the debate, let me say that we have brought a number of copies for you, just in case you would like them. they are available. going into the discussion, let me begin with the general remarks about the report. i am glad many of you find it a useful report and we also take note of the suggestions and the recommendations that you mentioned in this debate. on the question of analysing the effectiveness of our own policy, which was raised by some of you, i would just like to point out that, in chapter 7, which is dedicated to this issue, there are evaluations and analysis, but it is also true that we can do better; we can do more. let me also say that there is a certain limit, because very often human rights questions also relate to changing the whole society, therefore they are not as easily measurable as other things that are quickly implemented. let me also say a few things in general. religious freedoms have been mentioned. the european union is, of course, strongly against discrimination affecting any religious groups and our dialogue with third countries is expected to reinforce the respective governments’ own efforts to pursue and apply human rights principles, including, for instance, through national institutions for human rights. with regard to the other questions that have been mentioned here, for instance the situation of the roma in the candidate countries, it is stated in this annual report that we are committed to respecting fully the human rights of all persons, including those belonging to minorities. roma communities, in the mean time, have been identified as one of the most vulnerable minorities, both within the eu and in the candidate countries. i think we still have to go on to tackle this question and to have it improved.there was also the question about renditions in general. in our opinion, practices referred to as ‘renditions’ or ‘secret detention’ constitute a violation of fundamental rights. this has been clearly mentioned. here the commission has from the beginning actively supported and facilitated the investigations launched by both the council of europe and the european parliament into the renditions and the secret detentions. i would just like to mention that here. things have been done. on sudan: we heard mr osman here today. one of the key elements of the joint strategy at the summit was the question of partnership on security and peace. here we provide substantial support for conflict prevention, peace operations, and reinforcement of africa’s capacity to tackle conflicts at regional and national level. president barroso and commissioner michel have used every opportunity, including the last africa-eu summit, to remove remaining obstacles. i was present today when mr osman spoke and he also expressly said that he has received a lot of support from the delegations of the european commission. so there is great support there, but, of course, one can always do more. concerning the human rights situation in iraq, which was also mentioned here: we know that this is still an alarming situation, particularly in the light of the bad security situation there and also with regard to women, children, minorities and displaced persons. here, i think, good governance, democracy, human rights and the rule of law are the focus of our policies, in order for them to slowly go in the right direction. we have often called on them concerning the abolition of the death penalty. this is just to highlight a few of those issues. on russia: we hold eu-russia human rights consultations twice a year and russia is also mentioned in our report twice, on pages 72 and 73: first consultations were highlighted, and, secondly, we spoke clearly on the human rights situation, including in chechnya. so, again, chechnya is not forgotten. let me finally say a word on india. we are aware of the legal action that has been taken by fibres and fabrics international against the clean clothes campaign. this issue is particularly important to those of the commission’s directorates-general that are concerned with fair labour practices. we have asked the commission delegation in delhi to keep us apprised of the situation that is proceeding in the indian courts, and we have to look into the detention that has been mentioned. there remains a lot more to be said, but i think it was a broad debate and i do not want to take up any more time.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner louis michel, ladies and gentlemen, the second eu-africa summit held in lisbon last weekend was undoubtedly a success and marked the beginning of a new relationship between the european union and africa based on a strategic dialogue. nearly 80 heads of state and government, presidents of the european and pan-african parliament and civil society representatives sent strong messages to europeans, africans and the world. the concrete expression of the new framework for relations between the union and africa is to be found in the documents adopted at the summit, documents which i regard as of high quality: the joint strategy, the action plan and the lisbon declaration. these documents reflect the specific nature of europe's relationship with africa. this approach favours multilateral channels and seeks to integrate the various dimensions of the relationship. this approach is the difference the union can make, especially in comparison with other international actors. the treatment of africa as a partner in a strategic dialogue was also reflected in the method used to prepare both the summit and the documents which the summit itself adopted. the strategy, which for the first time was a genuine joint strategy, and the action plan were the result of intensive and thorough work with the african side, particularly the african union, and were drawn up and then finalized by a joint group of experts. i would also like to highlight the constructive role of the european parliament in the process of drawing up the documents and in the preparation of the lisbon summit. the joint strategy identified four interlinked areas of common interest: peace and security, governance and human rights, trade and regional integration and development. for the initial period 2008-2010, the first action plan envisages eight partnerships on matters of common interest, which aim, above all, to have a positive impact on the daily lives of african and european citizens. the lisbon summit confirmed the important changes that had taken place in europe, africa and the world. in today's europe of 27 member states, there is a convergence of very different foreign policy priorities and approaches. the african union emerges as a privileged interlocutor of the union, whose agenda also includes the issue of human rights and good governance. there is also a widespread perception that a set of global challenges, such as peace and security, to international trade, require concerted action by the international community, thus justifying the emergence of new forms of cooperation. the same applies to the search for answers to problems affecting both europe and africa, such as the effects of climate change, the management of energy resources or migration flows. africa and the union have understood the need to take their relations to a new level and the summit was a moment when this will became clear and unequivocal. however, the second eu-africa summit should not be presented as the end of the road, but rather as a turning point in relations between the two continents. it is therefore of particular importance that the documents adopted explicitly refer to the follow-up mechanisms for the decisions taken, especially in order to ensure a medium- and long-term perspective. in addition to the establishment of a frequency of triennial summits, sectoral monitoring structures are established for the various areas of the action plan at ministerial and expert level, as well as regular contacts between the european union and african union commissions, but civil society, ngos, trade unions, business forums, think tanks will also have a very important role in implementing and monitoring the measures envisaged. finally, i would like to stress the central role of the european and pan-african parliaments in the implementation of the new partnership, and the existing links between european and african parliamentary representatives should now be strengthened. the presidency welcomes, and i think you will understand, the joint statement by the presidents of the two parliaments at the second european union-africa summit. there is no doubt that a new and very stimulating path will open up in the relationship between europe and africa after the lisbon summit.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am naturally pleased to be able to report to you on the results of the lisbon summit. in fact, there is not much more to add because the president-in-office of the council has outlined the outcome of this summit in a remarkable way. i would also like to congratulate the portuguese presidency on having organized this summit - i think it was urgent - and, above all, on having succeeded. so, obviously, this summit was a summit with a strong message and a new message: the message of a radical change in the relationship between africa and europe. the lisbon summit marked the adoption - as has been said - of a new common vision, embedded in a joint strategy, that of a political partnership of equals, uncomplicated, liberated, pragmatic and mutually responsible. that said, the summit also adopted eight strategic plans to translate this new vision into action. the summit was marked by intense, rich and high-quality debates, which testify to the new and therefore fundamentally and genuinely political nature of our relationship. yes, we have spoken about zimbabwe, and many european leaders, including president barroso and chancellor merkel, have made it clear that mr mugabe's policy is unacceptable, that we do not tolerate human rights violations and that the policy in that country is undermining the will for reform that exists elsewhere on the african continent. many african leaders share these criticisms and it seems to me that the european union should fully support the african mediation efforts under the aegis of sadc and under the leadership of president mbeki. yes, we also spoke about darfur and the unacceptable humanitarian and security situation and we criticised the non-cooperation of the khartoum regime. we have, moreover, in a meeting in the form of a troika with the president of sudan, clearly stated our expectations and our demands that the president take the decision to allow the rapid deployment of the hybrid force so that the abuses we know about there will cease as soon as possible. it is worth noting that, in general, the subjects of democracy, governance and human rights are no longer taboo and that many african countries are embarking on the path of progress, as they say, not to meet the expectations of europeans, but to meet those of their own peoples. yes, we also talked about economic partnership agreements and, yes, there were agreements with several african leaders. president barroso and i have explained and re-explained the real issues of the epas. we also explained that the real challenge in the short term is to conclude interim agreements other than epas before 1 january, to ensure compatibility with wto rules and thus avoid putting non-ldcs at a disadvantage from 1 january 2008. i was given the example of côte d'ivoire, which would have lost some 750 million euros in trade in goods had it not signed this interim agreement. president barroso suggested that next year, discussions on epas continue at the highest level with each of the regions concerned, with the aim of comprehensive economic partnership agreements aimed at reasonable economic integration. of course, these are difficult subjects. we have discussed them without fear of disagreement. i think that will of course give quality and depth to our new partnership, but, ladies and gentlemen, from tomorrow we will be faced with an even greater challenge, that of translating this new political vision into concrete action. it is our political duty to present concrete results by 2010, when we meet for the third africa-europe summit. we have a collective obligation to deliver. the joint strategy and its first action plan set out the road map for our partnership and break it down into thematic objectives - as the president said - which are very concrete and operational. the two joint documents adopted at the summit were unanimously praised for their quality and ambition. this success is the result of a very long substantive and preparatory work which began in december 2005 with the commission's communication on a strategy for africa, which became, in 2007, a joint eu-africa strategy. the european commission will assume its full responsibilities during the implementation phase. but the commission is not the only one responsible for the success of implementation. the member states and our african partners must also get their act together. one of europe's first responsibilities in implementing this partnership will be to mobilise financial resources. i would remind you that the member states have committed themselves to providing an additional 20 billion euros per year by 2010. the latest results indicate that we are on the right track, but if we take into account the effect of debt cancellation in some countries, the current good result is still only relative. secondly, we need to distribute the work much better among the donors, which is an important element. that is why the code of good practice on the division of labour is a really fundamental element. thirdly, i would also like to recall that the member states committed themselves at gleneagles to finding one billion euros a year for aid for trade, half of which will have to go to africa. these are political and public commitments. i would like to recall this because these are elements which are likely to strengthen the feasibility and the implementation of these strategic plans. i have another thought: it is now clear that the commitment of the commission and the member states should not be the monopoly of the foreign ministers or the ministers for development. i would urge that we institutionalize the principle of joint, regular sectoral ministerial meetings on these matters. it is clear that sectoral ministers, for example in scientific research, trade, agriculture, finance can bring enormous potential in the new relationship with african countries. so, as i explained at the european and pan-african parliamentary conference in lisbon, we also rely heavily on the european parliament, on the african and european national parliaments to frame and convey the views and expectations of civil society. the central place of african and european democratic actors and civil societies at the heart of the strategic partnership and its implementation is also an innovation which i hope will allow the emergence of a genuine people-centred partnership. the formal inauguration was the address by the presidents of the european and pan-african parliaments to the heads of state and government. i would also like to assure you that i have heard the request made by your colleagues in the pan-african parliament to provide financial support to this institution while respecting its autonomy. we are of course prepared to discuss with the budgetary authority a more direct access to finance. i would like to reiterate my hope that we will one day be able to budget the european development fund, because it seems to me normal and right that you should be able to exercise the democratic control that is your right in the process of allocating official development aid. before the summit, i said that the main challenge of the summit would be to set the right tone for this political partnership between africa and europe and to send a strong signal for a relationship that is uncomplicated, both solidarity and pragmatic. i believe that this is exactly the signal that came out of the lisbon summit. as the portuguese prime minister, josé socrates, said, i feel that there will be a before and after lisbon in relations between the european union and africa.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i too would like to add my voice to the portuguese presidency's congratulations. it was completely abnormal that the world's largest trading bloc and the poorest continent had gone seven years without sitting down together to talk. this obstacle has been overcome. the summit has undoubtedly been a success, starting with its very existence. the european parliament, and this parliament in particular, is ready to play its full part in bringing the stage down from the muse to the theatre, that is, from statements to action. but i must regret, commissioner, that the reference to the parliamentary dimension was little more than lip service, because none of the requests that we parliamentarians made at the previous summit on concrete lines of action and funds for the development of the role of parliaments was incorporated into the conclusions of the summit. in spite of that, parliament will continue to work and point out the points where we have not done things right. and we have not done things well in the matter of the famous economic partnership agreements. there's an uncomplicated relationship, an equal to an equal, that's what happened. the problems posed by some of the approaches we have advocated to the hilt have been clearly raised by some african leaders. it's not enough to be right or reason, it's about reaching agreements. agreements are agreements, they cannot be impositions. let us work harder and better to reach agreements on this basis of equality which we proclaim in the spirit of the summit. this trade disagreement will go down in history as one of the key aspects of this summit. the other is the issue of human rights. there's also a lack of substance here. yes, commissioner, you have spoken about darfur, but not much. little and almost almost, because we had to write to them, some parliamentarians, to remind them that it was not on the agenda and that it was shameful that africa and europe were meeting and not talking about darfur. they've been very concerned once again, but they've been very careless. it is time - we were reminded this morning - to care, yes, but also to care more and better. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the first question is: there is no doubt that any manipulation of vehicles which results in noise emissions exceeding the permitted level is prohibited. it could even be a criminal record. but it is of course the responsibility of the member states to ensure that such traffic offenders are caught by their normal traffic monitoring, because they are indeed traffic offenders. i do not see the slightest chance that we can do anything at european level to get the member states to do more against things that are clearly prohibited. of course, such car races on the roads are also banned in every european country. there is no european law that anyone who organises a road race could invoke. the question therefore clearly falls within the competence of the member states, which have all the instruments they need to prevent this. as far as noise emissions in rail transport are concerned, my direct responsibility is limited to active noise control, i.e. the question: what do we do to the vehicles to avoid noise emissions? my direct responsibility does not relate to the passive noise abatement you have mentioned. i am more than willing to discuss this matter with the responsible colleague and to ensure that you get an answer as soon as possible as to whether or not the commission is planning to do something about this. but i agree with you. it is a question of great importance. the noise control system cannot be confined to road traffic. modern railway technology in particular can cause a real problem in this regard. i know from germany, for example, about the modern technology of the transrapid, that noise pollution plays a very important role. so we'll look at that, and you'll get a concrete answer. the third question again concerned control mechanisms. i can only say that our rights are clear. the rules are clear, the limits are clear, the responsibility for ensuring that these values are respected lies with the member states. the commission does not have any control instruments at its disposal to check whether european law is applied in the member states in each individual case. we have the principle of subsidiarity. i cannot see where we would have to change european law to ensure that it is also applied correctly everywhere. the rules are the same for all member states. they have clear guidelines on how it should be done. so in this case, as far as lithuania is concerned, i can only say that the colleagues in this country, in the parliaments and in the government, have a responsibility to ensure that such problems do not arise.
member of the commission. the commission is following closely the recent developments in prices in member states. it considers that those increases cannot be easily explained by one single factor, but need to be seen in the broader context of rising world demand for oil and gas. however, increasing investment activity – and in particular the switch to more sustainable energy production – definitely plays a part too. moreover, the point of departure for market opening was, in several member states, very low prices. in the medium and long term, this failed to give the necessary signals for much-needed investment, and we are now paying the price. as to the question of whether such price increases can also be attributed to the exercise of market power, the commission has studied this issue and it came to the conclusion that electricity prices in certain member states were higher than one would expect in fully competitive markets. in this respect, the commission, the council and the competition authorities armed regulators to identify anti-competitive behaviour and to take the appropriate action. the commission is also itself investigating alleged anti-competitive behaviour by certain operators, and has launched five anti-trust proceedings in the course of this year. the commission is very much aware of the structural problems in the sector too. therefore, the third energy package makes wide-ranging proposals to remedy those structural problems, in particular by proposing ownership unbundling of the transmission system operators. the commission has always been of the opinion that consumers should be the main beneficiaries of liberalisation. the commission’s proposals for the third energy package therefore contain a number of measures which will strengthen the role and rights of consumers. in particular, the package proposes to give consumers the right to switch supplier at any time and to have free access to their consumption data. by increasing consumer awareness and rights with respect to their energy consumption, the commission is providing the tools for a functioning retail market.
madam president, commissioner, i wanted to ask you a question about the retail consumer forum which you said you would promote. when are you going to launch this forum? what kind of participants can be part of this forum so that it really benefits consumers? what is the work of this forum going to be in relation to all that you have just mentioned?
the commission's vice-president madam president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the house, we are today on the verge of obtaining agreement with the council on a very important proposal at second reading. we owe this in particular to the excellent work of your rapporteur, mr leichtfried, whom i would like to congratulate in particular. we also owe it to the spirit of compromise of all the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i thank. i would like to remind you of the approach behind the proposal for a regulation we are discussing. in approving regulation (ec) no 1592/2002, which establishes common rules on the airworthiness of aircraft and establishes the european aviation safety agency, it was agreed that an optimal and uniform level of safety could only be achieved by extending the scope of that text and, therefore, by extending the competences of the european aviation safety agency to flight operations, pilot licences and also to the safety of third country airlines: this is indeed the subject of the amendment to regulation (ec) no 1592/2002. the proposal also aims to strengthen controls and sanctions in the event of non-compliance with these rules and, in the light of experience, to improve the functioning of the aviation safety agency. the council's common position follows the commission's proposal in general, although some provisions such as those relating to the governance of the agency have been reduced. this common position also takes account of certain amendments tabled by the european parliament at first reading. in recent months, intensive work has been carried out by our three institutions to reach an agreement at second reading. significant improvements have been made thanks to the amendments of the european parliament. the introduction of a system of fines, as you have just said, mr rapporteur, will give the commission the opportunity to respond appropriately in the event of a less serious breach of the safety rules. this is an option in addition to withdrawing the certificate and will bring more flexibility in the relationship between the agency and its staff. thanks to the european parliament's stubbornness, the commission's original proposal on cabin crew certificates has been reintroduced. this is a major step forward in the recognition of this profession. the added value of well-trained cabin crew is obvious. on several occasions this has helped to resolve difficult situations. these cabin crew are very important to safety. a pragmatic solution was also found for derogations from the flight time limitation scheme. furthermore, in the discussions on the agency's budget, more specifically on fees and charges, the commission committed itself, when revising the regulation on fees and charges, to take into account the specific situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, and in particular the impact on their economic viability. finally, on the definition of complex aircraft, the compromise seems to me to be balanced. i understand the concern of some of you not to place excessive demands on certain sectors of the market. the commission will also assess the economic impact of the inclusion of aircraft equipped with one or more turbojet engines or turboprops. as regards the possible change of regime for ultralight aircraft, the commission will ask the agency to give an opinion on this matter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i have covered the major points which are the subject of the compromise. the commission can therefore accept without difficulty amendments which reflect the compromise negotiated between our three institutions. i thank parliament and the council again for allowing a rapid second reading. the rapid adoption of this text will also ensure that the agency's reserve for 2007 is maintained. the final step towards a coherent and uniform set of safety rules in the community will be taken with the proposal i will present to the college in june 2008 on the extension of the responsibilities of easa to the safety of airport infrastructure, air traffic management and air navigation services. it is thus, ladies and gentlemen, that thanks to your determination and, i repeat, to that of your rapporteur, we will be able to make european skies as safe as possible.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would like to congratulate my colleague jörg leichtfried on his human qualities and his ability to make friends in a complex parliamentary confrontation on a subject that is so technical, but at the same time so vital, to ensure - sorry for the redundancy - safety in a sector as crucial to european economic development as aviation. i would also like to congratulate you on the progress made in the field of security, a difficult and complex subject where there is progress, where there are clear points - as today's report shows - and also obscure points - i will not say which one i am thinking of. today we are certainly taking a step towards completing a long and complex process which, in part at least, began many years ago with the transition from jar-ops to eu-ops requirements; i am referring in particular to the aspects of progress in flight time and rest. the parliament and the commission committed themselves at that time to entrust the agency with the task of moving forward on such a thorny matter, but which ultimately filled an inexplicable gap and required, at this precise moment, an update. i am therefore glad that the players have been able to accept this commitment, which i believe was important and an obligation of parliament. i think, however, that we will have to return to these issues in the light of the study and proposals which the commission is preparing on the social and labour situation in the air transport sector, a fundamental issue. i also welcome the agreement on cabin crew, whose professionalism and certification must be recognised. as the commissioner has rightly said, we are all interested in improving this training from a security point of view. i am also glad that we have reached a positive conclusion on the definition of helicopters, which at one time caused some concern in the production sector. i also think that the solutions given to the sanctions and to parliament's control are very relevant, not only in relation to the comitology, in the case of flight time, but also in relation to your right to information, in the case of the administrative board. i congratulate the rapporteur on the transposition and clarity of the agency's budget, which i consider essential for an agency of this kind as a member of the committee on budgetary control. i believe that european and global aviation safety needs both agencies and that both agencies should be equally effective.
madam president, based on the broad agreement on the need to adapt transport to the challenge of climate change and other impacts in order to make it as sustainable as possible, since only in this way will the means of transport be competitive in the european union and globally, the eurovignette has been a useful first instrument to tackle the problems of congestion, pollution, etc., and offers sufficient and quite diverse modulation in its application to different heavy vehicles. but given the complexity of the problem, i wonder, and i ask the commissioner, whether the studies being prepared, in accordance with the commissioner's own proposal and the agreement reached with parliament, are equally rigorous in their treatment of all means of transport, and i do mean all means. i would also like to know whether, after the methodology has been developed, the proposals that will be put forward will also cover all modes of transport. i think we cannot lose the opportunity to apply this important exercise in all ways, because everyone is involved, and we need credible solutions for all of them in line with the proposal for commodity. i would also like some information on some issues that seem important. how do you propose to link this proposal for the amendment of the euro-vignette and the new methodology for internalising external costs with the so-called 'green corridors' which appear in the logistics action plan and which could perhaps be an extension of this methodology? how will this financing instrument be integrated into the current debate on the financing of european union policies? is the commission prepared to extend this to private cars? wouldn't that be more efficient and less discriminatory? how can its effect be counteracted in the added problems of increasing peripheralness of more and more areas and regions? finally, do you think that this instrument, the instrument you are preparing, will be sufficient on its own to finance public works of the calibre of the large tunnels which form part of the transeuropean networks?
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr golik, on his good work and thank him for the excellent cooperation he has given us the alternative rapporteurs. the commission is proposing today, as you have rightly said, madam commissioner, a single legal framework, bringing together in one regulation the two existing regulations for the promotion of agricultural products. the aim is to reduce and simplify the procedures for implementing this policy, while maintaining the specific nature of the actions depending on the place where they are to be carried out. this proposal is very important and is recognized in the two coms on wine which have been adopted and are to be adopted. it considers that the promotion of agricultural products is important and that this proposal not only promotes them within and outside the european union but also has a multiplier effect on national and private sector actions. since 2000, actions have been developed to promote the benefits of european food, the quality of its nutritional aspects, food safety, production methods, animal welfare, etc. to the consumer. however, the existing rules governing promotion at present - and i say this because i have had the opportunity to manage these two regulations in the spanish ministry of agriculture - tend to jeopardize the system and they must be revised to promote the simplification that is necessary to make it more effective in order to use the funds properly. the promotion policy must be a modern, flexible and ambitious instrument to meet the aspirations of operators. i think that is what the commission is trying to do with its proposal, and that is what the amendments unanimously adopted by the committee on agriculture are trying to do. i would like to emphasize the one on the subject and scope, since it would be beneficial if promotion could be done at the brand level and not just at the generic level. i hope that the council and the commission will take this report into account and i thank them for their attention.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the consumer in respect of the placing on the market of consumer goods. madam president, as the rapporteur, mr lehne, has said, this is a subject which has occupied this parliament for 17 years. i have had the privilege of following it from the beginning, as rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs on the industrial designs directive. i was then the rapporteur on the subject in the committee on the internal market and i also followed it as a representative of the socialist group in the legal affairs committee. i should like to begin by congratulating mr lehne on his balanced position. i think you have made a magnificent statement of the difficulties of the subject. it is not an easy subject, it is not a simple subject; it has legal complications on the one hand and economic consequences on the other. i agree with him. i remember the long evening of discussion with the council in the conciliation committee on the final formula - we were then thinking of the possibility of some form of compulsory licensing, which was rejected - but i think that both the rapporteur and the speaker, like mr klinz, who has just spoken, are in favour of defending intellectual property rights. from a legal point of view, however, the problem with designs, industrial designs in general, is that the protection we have to give is for the product as a whole. what matters is the aesthetic value of the product as a whole, that is, the design; in the case that most often concerns us, the design of the car. the repair parts, that is to say those parts which, as a result of an accident or for any other reason, break or fall apart, have to be replaced and, as commissioner mccreevy has said, the normal form is a part which is equivalent to the part replaced. when someone repairs a part and replaces it with another like it, without damaging the whole design, he is evidently not committing any plagiarism, he is repairing an object to which he has to conform. it's the famous "must fit, must match" clause. i think the formula proposed by the rapporteur is a correct one, but the rapporteur has also been concerned about another issue: there is, in fact, the other aspect, which is the economic aspect. i mean, right now, there are a number of countries where the automotive industry needs this extra revenue that is generated through intellectual property protection. but, as the commissioner has pointed out, to achieve the internal market, it is necessary to unify the law throughout the european union, and the question is how we reconcile one thing with another. the only way to do that is through a transitional period, which is to say, we have to give the industry the possibility to prepare for a long period to take into account the compensation of the additional revenue, which would come from the intellectual property on those prepared pieces, something that now makes no sense because we start from the basis that the property refers to the whole of the design. the question is the period, as mr lehne has said. there are those who think that the period is a period of five years - two plus three we would say - and there are those who think that the period has to be longer, that it should be a period of eight years. tomorrow we shall see what the positions of the various political groups are, including the different national delegations and the different individual members. i have the impression that this is a subject that is not going to be discussed through party political lines but rather through national preferences, individual preferences or preferences for the protection of one sector or another. in any case, i think that the fact that we have been discussing a subject between the council and the commission for 17 years is not a bad thing, because in general there is a tendency to resort to the legislative instrument to solve occasional problems, and here the two co-legislators, the council and parliament, together with the commission, have been working for some time to find a solution which is balanced, which recognizes the right to protection of intellectual property, which recognizes the interests of car manufacturers, the interests of consumers and also - why not - the interests of small repair shops or even insurance companies. i think the formula proposed by the rapporteur is the right one. as i said, it remains only to be determined - and we shall know tomorrow depending on the results - what the correct time period is, but i think that under these conditions parliament is offering the commission the possibility of concluding in a short time a new legal formulation, a legal formulation which would prevent us from having the usual recourse to the court of justice for litigation matters. i therefore believe that parliament should basically approve the report, without prejudice to the minor difficulties which one or other amendment may raise.
mr president, a few months ago i called the ombudsman in my country and while i was waiting for the phone they put 'let it be', which did not invite much optimism about the complaint i was handling, as it was. this is the same feeling that we have for those of us who continue to see nothing of the european union doing to fit the regional fact or stateless nations into its institutional structure and into its policies. the worst thing is that more and more of us believe that that day will never come and the truth is that they do not leave us many alternatives. as for kosovo, the problems are being heard here, but i have not heard anyone raise the question that is most important to me, namely, what do the kosovars want? with regard to the lisbon strategy, we believe that there is too much complacency and this complacency is largely due to the fact that the indicators for assessing this strategy are mainly based on gdp growth. when will we have indicators to show progress on social and environmental issues so that we can really assess the results of lisbon?
mr president, mr president of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is right to begin by publicly acknowledging the work of the portuguese presidency on a very important day for the european parliament, which is expressed precisely in that frontispiece which has been placed on the podium of the presidency and which consists of 'at last' the solemn proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights. the portuguese presidency received - and i say this as the representative of the european parliament to the intergovernmental conference - a draft in which the charter of fundamental rights was no more than declaration no 11. i think it is also fair to say - the president-in-office of the council told me personally at the beginning - that it was practically impossible to change that status, and i think that in the work of the intergovernmental conference we have jointly achieved that the charter of fundamental rights is a legally binding charter. the states have not wanted to include it in the treaty, but it is a charter and has a constitutional character. i think we should remember the effort that many women and men have made over the years in the european parliament to get that charter. i think we should remember the woman who expressed the tragedy of europe in the 20th century and its overcoming, simone weil, and we can also remember altiero spinelli, fernand herman and many others who worked for many years so that we finally had a declaration of rights that expressed our identity. mr president, i also believe that it is time for us, in a parliament which legislates without discrimination on cows, goats, cucumbers and finance, to finally take care of people. i think it is regrettable that, unfortunately, there are still some states which introduce limitations on the rights of their citizens as european citizens, even today. finally, mr president, i would like to add another important element, namely that this charter and the treaty of lisbon strengthen the union as a supranational democracy of states and citizens, which is the first response in the era of globalisation in the political field. we do this regionally, but i think it's an example that we have to follow for our future and for the rest of humanity as well.
mr president, i am delighted that the treaty of lisbon will be signed tomorrow. this will put an end to a period of confusion in which the union was perceived from the outside as being paralysed. i therefore congratulate the portuguese presidency. i hope that once the treaty is signed there will be no reason for seclusion. it is time for the union and, of course, the european council to look outwards, to tackle the problems of the citizens decisively. i'll name three. economic growth: the european council must not fall into complacency. the signs are not good: the euro is too strong, making exports difficult; inflation is rising; the dollar is too weak; oil remains expensive. all the studies - the last one, the oecd's - downgrade the forecasts for economic growth in europe for 2007 and 2008. secondly, illegal immigration: this is a serious problem which they have tried to work on this semester, for example, with the euromed ministerial conference. i have also seen in the action plan adopted at the summit with africa references to readmission agreements and other instruments, but will the commitments be fulfilled? how long has the union been negotiating readmission agreements with some mediterranean countries? moreover, illegal immigration does not depend solely on cooperation with third countries; we ourselves must fulfil our commitments, for example with frontex. and the actual enlargement of schengen, which the european council will confirm on friday, also means an enlargement of the external borders. i hope that the authorities and officials responsible for these new external borders will rise to the challenge of illegal immigration. finally, terrorism: the threat remains. there are the recent threats from al qaeda leaders; there are the bloody events in algiers yesterday; and i remind you of what happened in france with eta last week. i am glad that during the portuguese presidency you have taken care of filling the post of european coordinator for the fight against terrorism, which has inexplicably been vacant for more than six months. if it was a problem of lack of competence or resources, the treaty reform was a missed opportunity to strengthen this figure. finally, i hope that the european council will urge that the commission's recent proposal to amend the framework decision on terrorism to include apologising as a criminal offence be dealt with swiftly.
madam president, i think it was very positive that we have today given a letter of intent to the alliance of civilizations that president zapatero and the secretary-general of the united nations, kofi annan, once defended. i think this is the base. moreover, with the charter of fundamental rights which we have signed, i believe that we have here also the nature of our civilization and not the fundamentalism of those who have come here today to fight it, fundamentalism which is violent and regrettable. it is also when islamists adopt that same fundamentalism. these two fundamentalisms, on both sides, are what we must also eradicate in order to achieve peace and not terrorism.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to make a couple of reminders, but a couple of reminders to the european governments. the first concerns the regularly mentioned lifting of the arms embargo on china, and i would like to remind you that this house has repeatedly insisted that this lifting can only take place when there is real progress, significant progress, in relation to the situation of the 1989 tiananmen prisoners, not in generic terms but specifically in relation to this issue, because this is what we are now expecting from the chinese authorities: some, i insist, significant progress to enable us to take that attitude. until then i think it is not only premature, it would be a very bad message and a very bad image for the european union to lift an embargo which, i repeat, was imposed at the right time for very specific reasons which have not been clarified at all. the second message, also supporting the view of my colleague mr trüpel, is that it is unacceptable that some european countries and governments should submit to and in some way succumb to the pressure of the chinese authorities to prevent them from formally meeting with chinese dignitaries, dissidents in some cases or representatives such as the dalai lama, in exchange for not jeopardising trade relations with china. i believe that it is precisely today that we have signed the charter of fundamental rights, which is totally inconsistent with the fundamental logic we want to impose on the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, a few weeks ago a young man, carlos palomino, was stabbed to death in the madrid metro in a clash with neo-fascists. shortly before, an energy man had beaten a young woman in front of the television surveillance cameras in the barcelona metro because she was an immigrant, because of the color of her skin, "he said", without knowing that she was being filmed and without knowing that her images would later go around the world. similar or similar cases have been repeated in various parts of europe. and often, with a sense of responsibility which is sometimes excessive, each of us and each of the political leaders who are concerned about all this try to reduce the importance of these facts: not to alarm; to say that, well, after all, these are isolated events, that the energetics are few, that we should not exaggerate, that it is not a serious problem. and we call it a minor issue because we're afraid to admit that, in fact, it may not be a minor issue. among other things, because, as the resolution we are voting on tomorrow and which is being debated here today says very well, many of these neo-nazi, neo-fascist organisations are exacerbating the feelings of fear that are there in our society, and that we cannot deny. it is not enough to condemn, we must open our eyes and act responsibly in the face of a fact which is not isolated and which, without alarming anyone, must be recognized in its own dimension and scale. the day on which the charter of fundamental rights was signed is a good day to remind us that the european union has a responsibility and a role in this. there is no subsidiarity in defending the dignity of persons or in denouncing racism, xenophobia and intolerance. we must act at european level, the commission must act, the fundamental rights agency must act, first of all, to examine what kind of ramifications and networks are behind all this - if any - what kind of connections these various fascist movements have, to enforce the legislation, to contribute to education policies and to support those who educate in respect for diversity, and to denounce forcefully, when it is necessary to denounce, those responsible for politics, social affairs, sports, etc., who, passively or even actively, are behind these actions.
mr president, in exercising your authority as president of this sitting, i would appreciate it if you would call to order a group of members who must believe that they are in the circus instead of in a parliament and who, with their jokes and their tone and their bravado, are undermining the quality of this debate.
we're in the last few days of the year and there are usually meals where you drink a little more than the bill or more than usual. the best thing in this situation is to take a nap and not to disturb a debate where respect for the speaker must prevail at all times. i appreciate your support, but as i say, if you have a few drinks left over with your meal, you had better take a nap than disturb the order of our debates with your bad manners and lack of parliamentary culture.
mr president, i would like to take half a minute out of my allotted time simply to say to the audience upstairs, on the right, a castilian proverb: 'to foolish words, deaf ears'. i will continue my speech in english. today, as we have very proudly signed the charter of the fundamental rights of the european union, it is more than half a century since europe assisted in the most outrageous crime of xenophobia and racism the holocaust. millions of people were killed because of their religion, their ethnic background and their political beliefs. therefore, it is more necessary than ever to bear history in mind by living our present and preparing for the future. we have to be alert and watchful; beware of the eggs of the snake, as ingmar bergman taught us. as commissioner frattini has confirmed today, there is a resurgence of violent acts with racist and xenophobic origin in our member states. but, to me, what's even more preoccupying is that more and more young people get involved. therefore, it is absolutely essential that we teach them citizenship and to be aware of what racism is about. more and more extremist right-wing parties which base their ideology and political practices on intolerance and exclusion are voted into national parliaments. there, they have an excellent platform for their political message of hate. we should be aware of this and try to do things to counteract that as well. racism and xenophobia are the most direct violations of the principles of freedom and democracy and our fundamental rights. so the european institutions and we, the members of parliament, are obliged to reaffirm our determination to uphold fundamental freedoms and to condemn and combat any manifestation of racism and xenophobia by means of law. more than ever, zero tolerance is requested to combat racism and xenophobia. more than ever we have to be belligerent in defending our values, using and strengthening the instruments available to the european union and its member states. no single citizen should ever suffer from persecution because of his or her race, religion, gender, social situation, language, nationality or sexual orientation. the eradication of racism and xenophobia, the right to live in peace, is a moral challenge to all democrats, and to defend civil rights is the duty of every democrat.
first of all, mr president, it seems to me that the president is conducting the debate according to his own criteria and not according to the criteria of the person in seat 777. i have no explanation to give you. almost all speakers, including those who have spoken among their friends, have been given more time than they had to speak. i would ask all colleagues to address the president and the house and not to address other colleagues in their speeches, so as not to give rise to unpleasant interventions and interruptions.
mr president, commissioner, much of what can be said on this subject has already been said at this stage of the debate, but i wanted to refer to the commissioner's call for thinking about the deep roots of extremism. it seems to me that the problem with extremism is not that there are a number of groups that develop violent actions. it's a problem, but that problem has to be attacked with the law and it has to be pursued, and so on, and so on. the problem is when these violent actions and the proposals behind them have the potential to spread and to be implemented in a broad base of citizens or certain sectors of citizens. that is when, from a political and social point of view, it is worrying. in order to see how that is avoided, it seems to me that there are three reasons, three actions that are fundamental. firstly, the commissioner himself mentioned knowledge of history - i think that is very important to know the tragedies, to know the successes and, ultimately, to know ourselves as humanity - but i think we must be careful only that history does not become a weapon thrown against each other in order to have certain immediate political benefits, which is what is happening in some countries now - in particular, i have to say in mine, in spain. but secondly, i think there are two other fundamental aspects which are very weak at the moment. education first. values such as the value of effort, the value of discipline, the value of self-responsibility, in other words, all those values that are what really make a good citizen when those people are adults, have been lost, are being lost or have been weakened. finally, in the context of the european union, what is important is that the european union does not fail as the area where we can all face together, europeans, the challenges of globalisation. because what we have now, as we have had at other times in the history of the 20th century in europe, is a lot of uncertainty, a certain hopelessness, a certain lack of horizon, and we have to give that hope, that positive spirit and that great leadership so that everyone feels integrated into the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful to the rapporteur, mr ehler, for his work on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the transposition of the 1994 deposit guarantee scheme directive, the passage through a period of financial turbulence and the discussion of the improvement of the european financial services market. there is a great disparity in solutions between member states and important questions remain to be resolved. although most member states apply the ex ante fund system, there are still significant differences in the level of guarantees, the size of the funds and their provision. two examples: the amount guaranteed is almost eight times higher in the most protective state than in the least protective, and the guarantee fund of a single state represents almost 40% of the european total. this distorts competition. the ex-post system also casts a shadow over national and european financial stability in the event of a crisis. cross-border banking groups also have problems. the consolidation of funds from different schemes poses practical difficulties. the concentration of guarantees in a single scheme can only be done by multiplying regulations and agreements between states, which fragment the system and makes it more vulnerable to an undue accumulation of risks. there are substantial questions about the objectives of the scheme: harmonisation of cover levels, risk-based contributions, use of funds to provide liquidity, cost sharing, cross-border crisis management, winding-up of institutions and cooperation between authorities. deposit guarantee schemes should form a risk-based safety net that protects depositors, ensures efficient and fair competition, provides stability to financial markets and contributes to a fair burden-sharing in crisis situations. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction.
member of the commission. mr president, as we all know, traceability is a key element of ensuring high standards in animal health and food safety. we have had recent experience with certain diseases in the european union, such as foot-and-mouth disease and bluetongue, which has once again shown the importance of efficient identification systems. individual identification cannot function properly without electronic identification. the commission was requested to confirm or amend, in its report, the date of implementation of electronic identification, not to question the principles of the regulation. that is why it is a technical report on the various methods and technology involved. the commission report only focuses on the best way to implement electronic identification. however, in order to produce a report, we needed data and input from the member states, and in particular those member states already working on the system. the studies and trials necessary for the preparation of the report lasted much longer than was originally foreseen, which explains the delay in the report. we strongly appreciate and thank parliament for agreeing to handle this matter as urgent. that will prevent a situation of legal uncertainty in january 2008. the report concludes that technical conditions for electronic identification of sheep and goats have been fulfilled, but that member states need a reasonable time frame to prepare the implementation of electronic identification. we agree with, and accept, parliament’s position to have a fixed date for introduction of the system. on the other hand, we cannot accept the other amendments proposed, which would call into question the very principles of the regulation, since the question now is what the actual date of implementation should be. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the speedy work he has done, and parliament for agreeing to treat this matter as urgent.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i, who listen attentively to mr stevenson whenever i hear him speak, and have for many years, miss this speech, because it is a speech that should have been delivered in 2003, but not in 2007 and about to be delivered in 2008. i think mr graefe zu baringdorf has said it very well: this is a 2004 regulation, we debated it in parliament in 2003, and that 2004 regulation sets the date of entry into force of the electronic identification system for sheep and goats at 1 january 2008. so, mr stevenson - i have no doubt that there are sheep in your constituency, and in mine too, do you know? - the five member states with the highest number of sheep and goats are, in addition to yours, france, italy and greece. these four member states have already done the work, which you seem to dislike so much, of convincing their farmers to mark sheep and goats, because we were told that the regulation said that electronic marking would be compulsory from 1 january 2008. so, look, i, as a member of this parliament, can understand everything. i can even understand that there are member states - such as yours, as i have just heard from you - which have not done their duty, and in that sense i have voluntarily proposed a date - which the committee on agriculture has also agreed - to extend that deadline a little, but of course if the farmer is paid two pounds in your constituency, in mine he is paid one, you understand. at the moment, with the problems we have in europe with regard to animal diseases, i believe that a system like this is precisely a guarantee and a way of putting a value on what our farmers are producing. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to that question. if he can't charge for the most expensive meat, then we're right where we are right now, with the blue tongue, and the foot and mouth disease, and the chikungunya mosquito. if there's nothing left to do but wait. so let us get down to work, let us be consistent, let us look at and read the regulation that the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, has mentioned - which, i repeat, is a regulation from 2004 - let us read it carefully, let us see that there are also some exceptions to it, but let us not start making each of us a sailor here, because this cannot be voluntary. it cannot be voluntary, because we, the commission and the council have already said that it was obligatory. i mean, i can't just give it to a squirrel and go back three years and tell my farmers that all the effort they've put in to this day is a completely useless effort because the british have forgotten to ask their farmers to do the same, you know? so what i ask you to do is to read my amendment carefully. of course, what my group will absolutely refuse to do is to question the compulsory nature of the system, because that would introduce intolerable discrimination between member states and within the european union itself, although of course i would not be surprised - and i am not referring to you, mr stevenson - if someone who rejects the charter of fundamental rights with the same or even greater vehemence with which some in this house have rejected it today rejects the marking of sheep and goats. so here we are: i think we have a regulation, we have the commission which has made a reasonable proposal to us, we have also made a reasonable proposal to the commission, and let us try to close this matter tomorrow without great damage to either side.
member of the commission. mr president, as members of this house know, back in 2005 the eu and china agreed a memorandum of understanding that included a two-and-a-half-year transition arrangement designed to give some extra breathing space to eu textile producers following the liberalisation of global trade in textiles and clothing. the arrangement capped growth each year for 10 particularly sensitive textile and clothing products. these caps expire on 31 december 2007, although the memorandum itself remains valid until the end of 2008, and it commits industry and government on both sides to work for a stable transition to free trade in textiles. it was always my intention to hold china to that responsibility. the commission negotiated with china a double-checking surveillance system for 2008 that will cover eight textile-product categories with particular sensitivities. what this means is that china will issue an export licence for all exports and, in parallel, the eu licensing offices in the member states will issue an import licence. it is a familiar system, and manufacturers, importers and retailers have all welcomed it. its value lies in allowing us to monitor textile import patterns and, because imports have to be licensed before they leave the dock in china, it allows us to see likely developments in advance. i am the first to acknowledge the fact that the textile and clothing industry is going through a long period of structural change. this started long before the dismantling of quotas. successful european companies are not taking the mass producers head on but are investing in technology and in quality. we remain – it is always worth saying it – the second biggest textile exporter in the world. we have more fashion and quality brands than the rest of the world put together. it is a sign of the european textile producers’ confidence and resilience that they have not called for quotas to be further extended. they have argued that their competitiveness depends more now on effective action on counterfeiting and market access in china. it goes without saying that i intend to throw the entire weight of our trade policy behind these two problems. on market access, we will be seeking new access for textile goods in the doha round and in all our new ftas. we have also set up a specific working group for textiles as part of the renewed market access strategy. europe is well poised to exploit huge new markets for consumer goods in the emerging economies and we will not simply be sitting back and hoping that these trends go our way. counterfeiting is, if anything, an even greater problem. protecting trademarks and design rights is absolutely central to the textile industry and i raise these issues with the chinese in every single meeting i have with them. we have done some useful collaborative work with the chinese customs service and trade fair organisers, and the chinese patent office. but, on balance, china remains a huge problem for intellectual property rights holders. the counterfeit markets are cleared out one day and the traders creep back in the next. as i have said in the past, we have not ruled out the prospect of using the wto if the situation does not improve. ms toia mentioned the ‘made in’ proposal to assist textiles: i made this proposal, i presented it to the commission, it was agreed by the commission but it has not been agreed, i am afraid, by the majority of member states. in view of this, i cannot press the proposal further or do more than i have done. last month, at the eu-china summit in beijing, i was very careful to pass on some frank messages, and they apply in the textile sector as much as anywhere. the eu-china trade relationship has been transformed in the last two decades. both sides have benefited from it immensely but it has become badly imbalanced. while china dominates our import markets, our businesses are losing out in china because of counterfeiting and market-access barriers amounting to eur 55 million a day in lost business opportunities. our spiralling trade deficit reflects both these things. this is not because of a lack of competitiveness by european producers. we have a surplus in goods trade with the rest of the world and, where we are allowed to compete freely, we are a match for anyone. this is not the case in china. instead of a level playing field, it is seriously tilted against us. we face trade and investment restrictions, rampant counterfeiting and regulatory barriers in virtually every sector. china’s wto obligations six years after it became a member are still too often unmet. i see the textiles problems as emblematic of the broader problems we face in china. we are china’s largest client for clothing and textiles. we have respected china’s comparative advantage in labour and production costs. we are focusing on our own comparative advantages. we are moving up the value chain in what we produce. we expect the same sort of equal opportunity and fair treatment in china’s market that chinese producers receive in ours. at the recent summit, the premier of china, wen jiabao, appeared to hear and understand our strong concern and offered to create a high-level strategic mechanism with the eu to focus on rebalancing our trade deficit with china. i welcome this, with one obvious caveat: it is not one more dialogue or one more roadmap we need, it is action – on the ground, in the markets, in the courts, where it matters to european exporters. and action not just by the ministry of commerce but across the board by the regulating agencies and ministries which restrict market access and law enforcement in all parts of china’s economy. the openness of europe’s own markets to china will not be politically sustainable if this action does not occur. i talk of textiles and clothing products, but also all sectors where europe has export interests. the practical delivery of real change by the new high-level trade deficit mechanism, which i and my trade counterpart are charged with designing and launching, will be the definitive test of china’s sincerity. i hope their sincerity matches our own in wishing to resolve the issues before us without resorting to avoidable confrontation.
on behalf of the alde group. i think that the speeches we are hearing are all in the same vein. in a few debates recently, we have heard people from different parts of the house representing different political sensibilities and all striking exactly the same nail, all striking exactly in the same direction. we support free trade, without any doubt, and we support it as a very clear principle. it is not a question of creating barriers, it is a question of ensuring that the rules of the game are the same for everyone and assuming that unfair competition from china, both by imposing restrictions on market access and by very serious and permanent and systematic violations of intellectual and industrial property rights; or the lack of import controls; or the question of the exchange rate differential - which obviously affects not only textiles but so many other areas of our trade relationship - or other measures by china, put a very serious and very delicate situation to an industry which still exists and which is still fighting for its survival and which does not ask for protection, as commissioner mandelson very well said in his speech - because i am happy for it - it does not ask for barriers; it asks for a certain level playing field so that everyone can play on equal terms. the situation changes completely from the end of the year, and the commission cannot be checking this, observing it as if it were a weather phenomenon, but has a large number of weapons, instruments at its disposal - starting with import control - to ensure that the rules of the game are effectively equal and the use of the defence mechanisms at its disposal.
mr president, allow me to congratulate you, commissioner, on your firmness and on the agreement reached last october with china on the double-checking system for textile exports to the european union. with the abolition of the quota system due to end this year, the commitment will - or should - ensure that the transition to a free market in 2008 is properly completed. this is essential for european manufacturing companies, which have already had to face enormous challenges as other speakers have pointed out. the industry and the authorities will have to work together to closely monitor the evolution of trade flows with china and prevent a repeat of the situation that occurred in 2005. we regret, however, that the categories covered by the june 2005 agreement only include eight of the ten products that are subject to restrictions until 31 december this year and in this respect i would like to know what the commission's strategy will be for monitoring the two categories of products that have been excluded from the agreed double-checking system, i.e. cotton fabrics and tableware and kitchenware. but, beyond this agreement, it will undoubtedly be necessary to continue to act on other fronts to ensure that european industry can compete on fair and reciprocal terms, for example by making progress in the indication of the mark of origin - despite the difficulties you have mentioned - or by promoting labour, social and environmental conditions in the negotiation of trade agreements. all institutions and companies must insist on r & d, using the wide possibilities offered by the seventh framework programme, and we must anticipate change while taking into account the effects of restructuring by adopting the necessary social measures to support workers. finally, i would like to welcome the agreement reached at the 10th eu-china summit, which you have mentioned, which will create a high-level working group to address key issues such as the trade deficit, difficulties in accessing the chinese market and intellectual property rights. this is another step in the right direction to improve our relations with china and promote a win-win situation.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr david martin, on behalf of my group, in the most formal way, on the excellent quality of the report he is presenting to this house. actually, not all reports are the same. it is important that, although we are voting on all kinds of documents here, we should highlight some of them which have a content and a solidity that allow them to be examined in detail and which cover all the subjects under discussion. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur and the team who have accompanied him in putting it into practice. we certainly talk little about korea here, we talk too little, and it is certainly one of the great trading allies - the fourth outside europe, as the report itself points out, and the european union is the first investor in korea - and at the same time it is certainly one of the strongest democracies in the whole area. so if we consider this on the one hand and on the other hand the difficulty in which the multilateral arena is found and the reality that there are barriers to market access for european goods and services, non-tariff barriers of great importance, it is obvious that that makes it a very clear candidate for a bilateral agreement which has the full support of this parliament, but which has to be a well-done, well-negotiated and ambitious agreement. there are difficulties in very specific areas. i would like to emphasize the issue of services - which has already been discussed - the issue of intellectual piracy in one of the countries with the highest internet penetration in the world, and where the lack of seriousness with which copyright and the protection of the audiovisual sector are taken up therefore poses very specific difficulties. finally, on the kaesong question: my group will support the text as it is in the report, that is to say, we recognize and understand the political content of this space between south korea and north korea, but we understand that it could cause serious difficulties if it were simply introduced into this area of free trade with the european union, and therefore we would not support the simple inclusion of the kaesong space in a possible agreement with the european union.
mr president, yesterday there was a savage terrorist attack in the city of beirut, which claimed the life of the lebanese general françois el hajj. as the house knows, mr president, lebanon is bound to the european union by an association agreement. our parliament, at its brussels mini-plenary, adopted an important report granting macro-financial assistance to that country and, without going any further, a delegation from the committee on foreign affairs, consisting of mrs de keyser, mrs gomes, mr belder and myself, visited the country last week to express our solidarity with the cause of peace, understanding, harmony and reconciliation in that country, as have several ministers from the member states. i would ask the president to convey to prime minister siniora our solidarity in the face of this savage terrorist attack and our unwavering and unwavering commitment to the cause of a sovereign, democratic, stable, viable and peaceful lebanon. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this shows that this type of violence is a fact that affects everyone, although in particular forms and manifestations in each case. the first of the three cases we are dealing with today, the situation in chad, is a sad example of how, in a context of war, women are often used as sexual objects and where rape is also a weapon of war. this is particularly true in refugee camps, but not only in refugee camps. with this resolution we want to underline - at least some of us - that the international community, and in particular the european union, must respond to this situation and assume our responsibility to protect. in this sense, the deployment of a specific mission, eufor chad/rca, is a task that must be done urgently, yes, but also responsibly. i would add to the warning that there is certainly a risk that this mission will be perceived as being too closely linked to one country, namely france. i think that would be harmful and certainly counterproductive to the objectives of that mission. i therefore also insist that the composition of this mission should reflect the diversity of the member states of the european union in order to avoid any confusion between this mission and the french deployment known as 'épervier'. we must also denounce to all possible authorities - and i therefore urge the council and the commission to do so - the brutality of the attacks on the civilian population by the yanyawid militias and other chadian groups. the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war is especially reprehensible and it is unacceptable that such crimes go unpunished. it is therefore urgent that the chadian authorities take responsibility for investigating these violations and abuses and bring those responsible to justice.
in 2005, we had the opportunity to comment on the situation of women in saudi arabia, and in that context we did so in relation to the municipal elections and the inability of women to vote. however, in addition to this discrimination in political rights, there are many others which have been denounced in various media recently and continuously, and which have motivated this second resolution which we are debating today. the trigger was certainly the incomprehensible sentence against a woman, known as 'qatif's wife', who was sentenced to 200 lashes for being found in a car talking to a man who was not a member of her family. not only is the alleged crime, and therefore the conviction, inadmissible, but it is further aggravated by the convict's inability to receive adequate legal counsel. but unfortunately this is not the only case in which it is regrettable to have sentences for clearly discriminatory crimes and the defenselessness of women before the law. this is, unfortunately, more the rule than the exception. how can a system that finds the victim of rape guilty of such an atrocity be considered just, for example? structural change is needed in that country and we in the european union must help those who are working in this direction, both from outside and from within. there are no relativisms that count here. human rights, including women's rights, are and should be universal and defended in all contexts. i therefore also support the request made by mrs svensson and i urge the commission and the council once again to take every opportunity to call on the saudi authorities to make the necessary structural and institutional changes to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women, including the recognition of all rights, both in the private and public spheres, and more specifically in the political, legal and judicial spheres.
the author. madam president, i have to say that as the promoter of this resolution, i am particularly pleased that we have finally found the space and the consensus to put it forward, because i sincerely believe that the subject deserved this and much more. we're talking about almost 200,000 women, euphemistically known as "comfort women", who were forced into sexual slavery before and during world war ii by the imperial japanese army. after 62 years, the survivors are still waiting for justice. they have suffered through life from poor physical and mental health, isolation and shame, and often extreme poverty. to date, the government of japan has failed to comply with international standards on reparations comprising restitution, compensation, rehabilitation and satisfaction, including full disclosure, apology and guarantee of non-recurrence. this is especially significant considering that japan is one of the major donors of aid in post-war contexts. it was therefore urgent to react and remember - as survivors do - that truth must be linked to justice, and that an apology is empty if it is not accompanied by an assumption of responsibility. it is not just - i want to stress this - an individual victim's right, but a collective right, which implies a responsibility to remember so that this type of violation does not happen again. this leads us to call on the japanese authorities to exercise historical honesty and not only to acknowledge the facts but also to apologise on behalf of their ancestors and to compensate the victims. finally, i would like to express my deepest respect and appreciation for the women who had and have the courage to speak out and demand justice, and for the organisations that, like amnesty international, are accompanying them on this journey.
mr president, i would like to call on the council, the portuguese presidency and the commission to take responsibility for the negotiation of the soil directive which is in the council. after a long debate, parliament has adopted a proposal which is much more open, less bureaucratic and much more flexible than the commission's. it passed after much debate, by 496 votes to 161. it was a message to the council, which failed to negotiate sufficiently last week. the council and the commission did not understand that parliament was putting on the table a new way of legislating in the europe of 27, with different regulatory developments, experiences and different bureaucratic systems. we must find new ways of approaching it. the solution is not to legislate less, not to legislate in silence, but to seek more open and flexible formulas, which is what parliament has proposed. we proposed a document which defined common objectives - as article 249 of the treaty says - and instead left the countries free to implement them. if europe wants to take a lead on climate change and the environment, it cannot rely on regulatory policies, taxation and the judicialization of environmental policy alone. we must learn to understand each other in freedom and flexibility. that is what is required of a young europe.
