my dear colleagues! the armaments industry is the most advanced economic sector after the automobile industry. western corporations dominate the world's arms market because of their technological advances. this places a tremendous responsibility on us that we obviously cannot handle. armed conflict has not decreased, only increased in cost. spending money on weapons makes it impossible to invest in education and health. this ring has fed the cold war for decades. the money spent on death could be spent on educating and feeding those who have been killed. the weapons already produced will eventually reach their logical destination in the conflict areas even if they have been collected in the meantime by the esdp mission, as happened in bosnia. on the road, weapons are profitable for criminals and illegal regimes. as head of the moldovan delegation, i know that the transnistrian separatists are financing themselves with illegal arms deals. the biggest ammunition depots in europe are located in cobas, in the territory of the kgb-backed slums. small arms are now the true weapons of mass destruction. for example, the kalashnikov submachine gun has become an icon among extremists. however, the extremists have repeatedly succeeded in acquiring more sophisticated weapons systems. our irresponsibility will sooner or later turn against us. i therefore support the transformation of the eu code of conduct on arms exports into a legally binding document. i know that the council can turn the guide into a common position. it's a pity mr. gloser can't hear those words. i also want the uk and france to stop using export credits to support arms exports. and that the insinuation that accompanies this business... be punished not just on paper. the world needs an international arms trade treaty and europe needs greater transparency in arms trade, as the rapporteur also pointed out, whom i congratulate and thank for his work.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, first of all i would like to wish you good luck and success in your new high office. this year is the year of equal opportunities in the european union, and therefore the year of us all. the year of the man and the woman. today we are discussing the deepening of gender equality in the work of our own committees. and i would point out that this is the first document of parliament devoted to a specific assessment of the mainstreaming of gender equality in the political work of parliament's committees. in this context, the rapporteur, ms anna záborskále, should be thanked for her expertise. in a few months, we will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome. in accordance with article 2 of the treaty, equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of community law, and the promotion of that principle is therefore its unquestioned task. the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms has been signed by all the member states of the european union. i say, why don't we do it? i ask why we do not have a working oversight mechanism and operational measures to enforce and ensure the decision is not circumvented? decisions were made half a century ago. parliament also adopts documents on the same subjects every year, in which it stresses, obliges and demands. but in this same document we are forced to acknowledge today, in 2007, that even in the administration of our own parliament, women in positions of responsibility are under-represented in those bodies which make political decisions. in conclusion, i would like to say to all of us, the people elected to the highest political level in europe: let us act on our decisions and stop wasting human resources and potential that are already poor. we also accept women as equal partners in our actions, whether it's making political decisions or paying them their salaries. equal opportunity for all, not just on paper, but in everyday life. this is also the key to the success of the lisbon strategy.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, good rapporteur, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. during the course of the debate on this bill, i and my supporters had intended to table our own amendment to the rome ii report. unfortunately, it did not work. i would therefore like to introduce the substance of this amendment to my colleagues. as a general rule, the law of the country where the damage occurs is to be applied to non-contractual debts. article 9 however contains an exception and automatically requires the application of the law of the state in which the industrial action takes place. my suggestion would have been to remove article 9 from the bill. the exception in article 9 does not take all parties to the employment relationship into account equally and may place smes providing services abroad at a very disadvantageous position. the company is unable to meet its contractual obligations due to possible labour disputes and is forced to withdraw its employees, compensate for the damage caused, pay a settlement fine and thus miss out on the expected revenue. thus, the damage resulting from the industrial dispute still arises in the country of the location and not in the country where the industrial dispute takes place. in my view, an analysis of the effects of that provision should have been carried out before article 9 was incorporated into community law.
in the last few days, there has been a lot of interesting information coming out of davos about the extent of climate change and the potential for catastrophic effects. i was at the same event in davos 12 years ago, and i have to admit, there was no talk of climate change. but talking to yourself isn't gonna help. the melting of the greenland ice sheet, the arctic ice sheet and the siberian ice sheet has significantly reduced the amount of ice on the planet and is leading to dangerous sea level rise. it seems to have helped us better understand the dangers we face. it is clear that the kyoto protocol as a political mechanism alone is not enough we need to act more quickly. it was also discussed in davos. we need to set binding and ambitious targets in europe for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the emerging economies of china and india are key countries and must play an important role in the new political mechanism. to get them involved, we in europe must first show that we are serious about this issue and not just about a 20% cut.
mr president, last week the russian authorities presented new charges against the former yukos managers, mr khodorkovsky and mr lebedev, who were already sentenced two years ago on highly questionable grounds. many members of this parliament have followed with great concern the fate of these two men, who can be classed as political prisoners. a new sentence will probably mean their moral and political execution. i suggest that a temporary committee should be set up to investigate politically motivated trials and murders which, unfortunately, are continuing in russia, despite the concern expressed today.
although it's february 12th, i'd like to go back to the end of january for a moment. on the evening of 25 january, vladimir kozlov, the chairman of the mari council and the husband of galina kozlova, a candidate for the 2006 sakharov prize for freedom of thought, was brutally attacked in the capital of the republic of mari el joskar-olas. galina kozlova was taken to the neurosurgery department of the joškar-ola city hospital with skull and brain fractures and visual impairments due to the nerve gas used in the attack. in the spring of 2005, the european parliament adopted a resolution on human rights and democracy violations in marimala, russian federation. as you recall, this resolution calls for the continued attack, harassment and exclusion of non-state mass media journalists. in 2001, three journalists were killed and on 4 february 2005, vladimir kozlov himself was beaten to death. it is with regret that i have to admit that since then the situation of minorities and human rights in marima has not improved, as i wanted to inform you, mr president and colleagues.
ladies and gentlemen, the report of the kosovo committee is in the middle of the pages. the general elections in serbia have taken place. president putin in munich laid out russia's goals in the world and in europe. the time for waiting is over, the time for action is here. helping the western balkans on the path to stability is the essence of the european union's foreign and security policy. the best way to solve the kosovo problem is to get serbia's support, and to do that we must support the democratic forces there. we must reaffirm our support for the continued rapprochement between serbia and the european union as soon as possible. we need to say what criteria determine whether the process can continue. the serbian government, which is implementing the european union's core values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, must win our support for europe. we will thus thwart russia's threat to veto kosovo's plan at the un and use kosovo as an excuse to support separatists in the european union's neighbourhood policy countries.
madam president, this is a very important report with different emphases. one of the big problems seems to be that numerous states have not been willing to counter the terrorist threat efficiently. as you mentioned, madam commissioner, even several un member states have not been able to agree on an international definition of terrorism. against this background i think the main challenge for us is to strengthen and enhance the efficiency of transatlantic cooperation and coordination. that also means fully implementing the eu-us cooperation declarations. i wonder whether concentrating on suspicions and accusations might give the misleading impression that us intelligence is not our ally but the main adversary. at the same time, i would like to pay tribute to our own anti-terrorist efforts. they have succeeded in preventing many new terrorist attacks in the uk, germany and the united states. but the urgent need is obviously for closer cooperation between the eu member states and special agencies. i can only support the idea that the eu anti-terrorist coordinator be given a stronger mandate and more resources. i think paragraph 9 is especially relevant. it states that one of the eu’s external actions should be aimed at preventing extremist groups and states from resorting to terrorism. i think this is a key to practical solutions. without the support of such states as iran, terrorist initiatives will be dramatically reduced.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the many important points you have made, but also for the realistic assessment that we cannot agree with everything. we have all made wishes based on our own ideas, and as one of the speakers said, all this is an important step forward, but we still need to take many more steps. the joint statement by the commission and the council makes it clear that we have respected the important principle of reciprocity in various areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i do not want to confuse the two aspects, but they are somehow connected. the importance of dialogue with russia has already been expressed in various debates. it is always demanded that we do what we are supposed to do. but if, for example, the green light is still not given for the opening of negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement with russia, then we will not have the opportunity to put forward our demands and wishes, or even your petition. that's why it's time to receive this signal. i hope that we can solve the problem that still hangs over this question accordingly. even if there are things we cannot accept in the context of respect for human rights, we have the biannual human rights consultations between the european union and russia to raise these very issues. the question of bureaucratization was also raised. of course, we would have liked to have regulated many things differently here too, but in terms of the necessary invitations - the commissioner will certainly be dealing with this - some simplifications have been made. of course, not to the extent that some have claimed, but it does show that we are moving step by step, even if it is often only small steps. in the area of dialogue, especially with russia, it is important to take a small step forward.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i have taken good note of the many concerns you have expressed, but let me first say that article 300(1) of the ec treaty clearly states that negotiations on international agreements on matters falling under community competence are conducted by the commission on the basis of negotiating directives approved by the council. the european parliament needs to be consulted before the conclusion of the agreement, as laid down in paragraph 3 of that article. this provision also applies in areas of codecision, so in my view the procedures set up by the ec treaty have been fully respected, both on readmission and on visa facilitation. i wanted to say that, because it came up in the discussion. at the same time, however, i can also reiterate that of course we are at your disposal to provide any relevant information, even during the ongoing negotiations. i also fully share the view that the promotion and the safeguard of human rights in our relationships with russia, and in connection with those agreements in particular, are of course a fundamental aspect. the commission, assisted by the eu member states, will therefore monitor this issue very closely in the context of the joint committees set up by the agreements and, of course, human dignity – the dignity of the human being – is certainly very important here and has priority. furthermore, the regular semi-annual consultations between the european union and russia on human rights are always an occasion where we can address broader concerns with russia and human rights issues are always raised at the summit and at ministerial levels, as appropriate. the visa facilitation agreement constitutes a real improvement of the status quo. it is indeed, as our colleague said, a step forward. it contains important facilitations for issuing short-stay visas which will then apply on a reciprocal basis to citizens of the schengen member states and of the russian federation. some of these facilitations apply to all visa applicants and others to specific categories who have a particular interest in travelling, while the agreement provides for legally binding rights and obligations, which will ensure somewhat greater flexibility in the visa procedures. i wish to draw your attention in particular to the fact that we, the commission, have managed to negotiate important visa facilitation for journalists, for instance, who will no longer require an invitation or a validation by the russian authorities, and special attention will also be paid to effective reciprocity in the implementation of the agreement, equal treatment regarding registration procedures for eu and russian nationals and the free movement of persons within russian territory. you raised two topics, namely registration requirements and the removal of invitations. i would like to just say that the agreement includes a commitment to simplify the registration procedures, with a view to ensuring equal treatment for eu and russian citizens, and i would like to remind you that the schengen acquis also imposes a general obligation for aliens to register. we have raised this issue with the russian authorities on several occasions and new legislation, which entered into force in russia last month, is already in place to simplify these procedures. according to this law, an appearance in person will no longer be required for registration. of course, we will now monitor and seek further clarification of these rules. i would also like to say that the visa facilitation agreement introduces another important change, namely the fact that validation of invitations by the russian authorities is no longer required. in comparison with the current situation, where the invitation from the russian host needs to be validated, this is, i think, a great improvement for a large category of citizens. of course, the agreement does not abolish the invitations and their validation for all eu citizens applying for russian visas. however, it should be borne in mind that the schengen acquis also requires any person applying for a visa to justify the purpose of the travel and present supporting documents. i also would like to say that the readmission agreement contains important elements for humane and more effective return management in the future and i would just like to reiterate what i said at the beginning. in the case of asylum applications at the border, the principle of non refoulement has to be fully respected by member states in accordance with article 18 of the agreement. so it is clear that this will be an important aspect. i could go on giving you all the details, because i have listened very carefully. however, i think this matter has already been discussed in the libe committee, so just let me say that i hope the house will follow the committee’s recommendation and give a positive opinion on both agreements. it will make a change for our citizens and ultimately this may be what matters most.
in writing. - the basis for the eu-russia agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas was laid at the st petersburg summit in may 2003. the agreement was intended as part of a process to strengthen the relations between the parties, inter alia, through the creation of a common space based on freedom, security and justice. i see the contract, but i don't see the common room that should have been created. the european parliament has repeatedly called for international agreements concluded on behalf of the european union to include a reciprocal human rights and democracy clause. the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas with russia does not contain this clause. the eu has also reviewed the visa facilitation policy of the european union, which requires that a readmission agreement has been concluded or is in the active negotiation phase. the readmission agreement is submitted to the european parliament together with the visa facilitation agreement. in this respect, russia has been granted a very generous transitional period to start the actual readmission. i have repeatedly drawn attention to the absurd situation where the european union is making it easier for russian citizens to cross a border that russia itself does not recognise. moscow has not yet ratified the estonian-russian border treaty. logically, border recognition should be a precondition for the establishment and modification of border management. to support democracy, the european union and the united states adopted an approach 16 years ago that saw russia as a promising young country. the ultra-low-key treatment continues, but it's not up to date. it is in europe's interest to start treating russia as a mature partner who has to fulfil its international obligations like any other.
the new three-year management cycle, launched two years ago with the review of the lisbon strategy, which combines the broad guidelines for employment and economic policy, allows member states to adapt their national lisbon programmes to the specific conditions of each country. for the first time in six years of slow or even stagnating economic growth, europe's economy is growing. this positive trend is also reflected in the labour market and demonstrates the link between economic policy and social protection. the doubling of productivity has reduced the average unemployment rate to eight percent. last year, 2.9 million new jobs were created, but there is still much to be done and no reason to be completely satisfied. to date, only a few member states have adopted a fully integrated life-cycle approach to processing. we must take seriously the implementation of the self-determination already taken, that is, that every young person who graduates from school or university should also be offered a job, that childcare facilities should be available, that labour protection regulations should be up to date, and so on. i thank the rapporteur for his realistic reports and stress that the european parliament is the appropriate forum for evaluating strategies and measures to achieve the lisbon objectives through coherent behaviour and greater cooperation. it is our right and our duty as citizens.
i am convinced that corporate social responsibility will promote sustainable development and also better implementation of the lisbon strategy on issues such as a more rational use of natural resources, improving the performance of innovation, reducing poverty and, of course, better respect for human rights. csr should also act as a complementary tool for industrial and restructuring management, and should be such as to include new areas such as lifelong learning, equal opportunities, social inclusion, sustainable development and, why not, ethics. the participation of undertakings in the relevant social activities must be voluntary. moving forward on the path of creating and developing csr practices requires, of course, adherence to agreed and internationally recognised principles. we have no other framework or generally agreed system to adequately measure csr activities. therefore, it would also be premature and pointless to call upon the institution of the ombudsman concerned at this stage. the forceful regulatory package does not work in a positive direction, but rather generates negative reactions. i thank the rapporteur for his resolute efforts to achieve this goal, which have now been pursued for eight years. thank you for your word.
in writing. maritime activities provide jobs for 5 million people in the european union. the baltic sea is our inland sea, the mediterranean and black seas are central to our foreign policy, the northern dimension extends our responsibility to the arctic seas. it is time to see the european union as a maritime union and to take up a position in the world. my homeland, estonia, has been a maritime nation for centuries. ernest hemingway once said that in every port in the world, you can find an estonian. but in the last ten years, we've lost 57% of jobs in the maritime freight industry. freight ships have been moved to comfort flags and are staffed by people from third countries who accept less favourable working conditions. in total, almost 17 000 people are missing from european maritime transport. this is primarily due to the poor working conditions. we cannot afford to lose jobs related to the sea. especially when it comes with a decline in the standards of seamanship. we cannot retreat from a strategic sector which provides 90% of world trade and 40% of trade within the european union. ratification of the convention on the law of the sea by our member states would be a major step towards making it universally applicable. by contributing to fair competition in the world maritime industry, we would also be seeking to achieve the objectives of the lisbon process by enhancing the competitiveness of the european union at sea. a competitive advantage obtained at the expense of human life and health cannot be justified by any economic consideration. standards that endanger seafarers and the environment are not 21st century.
last week, the epoch creative council was held. europe's energy policy is out of date. more than 20% of the generators are over 30 years old and should be replaced. this is a historic opportunity for europe to break free from the outdated thinking that has shaped our energy policy. instead of replacing the physically obsolete fifth with new generators that are morally obsolete, we dared under the german presidency to commit ourselves to replacing it with renewable energy. but what i like even more is replacing energy waste with sustainable consumption. energy and security go hand in hand. every kilowatt we don't have to buy energy from undemocratic regimes for is a contribution to world security. unfortunately, the continued political support for a proposed gas pipeline under the baltic sea shows that lessons have not been learned from the past. we must not encourage russia to continue stalin's policy of zones of influence. it may sound cruel, but the baltic sea gas pipeline is for estonia as a 21st century molotov-ribbentrop pact. europe needs a common energy policy and a constitutional agreement today. the institution of the european union's foreign minister ensures that 'smoking transactions' become a thing of the past in our union forever. i therefore believe that the successful conduct of the general assembly, the german presidency, will bring to life a vital agreement for us. and the citizens of the european union will recognize that this is good, that this is in the spirit of the third millennium.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, the commission regrets the violent attack on galina kozlova which took place on 25 january in the capital of the mari republic, and i express my sympathy to her and her family and my best wishes for her speedy recovery from her injuries. the commission expects that the incident will be thoroughly and speedily investigated and the perpetrators brought to justice. in this context i note that an investigation has been opened and that the president of the mari republic has reportedly demanded that it be given special priority. more generally, the commission is aware of the situation of finno-ugric indigenous peoples, such as the mari-el people in russia. we are also aware of the concerns raised by a number of members of the european parliament concerning the treatment of the mari-el, notably with regard to the mari language in school teaching and the harassment of journalists and the presidential elections in december 2004. the commission took good note of parliament’s resolution of may 2005. the commission sees common values, including the respect for human rights, as a cornerstone of its relations with russia. the commission participates actively in the eu-russia human rights consultations, where we aim to discuss the most important issues with russia in an open and constructive manner. it would be useful if we could, on issues such as these, move away from mutual recriminations and focus on exchanges of experience and best practice on how to deal with these problems, which can arise in many modern societies. it is for that reason that the commission has suggested that the participation in the human rights consultations should be widened to include not only diplomats but also experts from line ministries and agencies responsible for tackling these issues on the ground. the next round of consultations with russia on human rights – including the rights of people belonging to minorities – and fundamental freedoms will take place on 3 may. the commission has raised the issue of the rights of the mari population bilaterally with the russian authorities. in response, they have given information on the activities which have been undertaken, financed by the government of the mari republic, to promote the development of art and culture in the mari republic, to encourage multilingualism as well as to foster traditional arts and crafts. support is given to publishing books by authors in the mari language, as well as their translation into russian, for newspapers in the mari language and for study at the university of mari el and other institutions of higher education. finally, i should add that, in the roadmap for the common space on research and education, including cultural aspects, the eu and russia have agreed to work together in order ‘to strengthen and enhance the european identity on the basis of common values, including freedom of expression, democratic functioning of the media and respect of human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities and promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity as a basis of civil society in europe without dividing lines’. we are now working together with russia on an action plan for cultural cooperation which will aim to translate these principles into concrete action. exchanges in this field should help to build a better climate in which the cultures and traditions of minority populations are respected.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her understanding and quick reaction. parliament has already voiced its concern about the situation in the mari el republic: that was two years ago back in may 2005 after mari national leader vladimir kozlov was brutally beaten up. alarmingly, no improvement has been noted since then. clamping down on attempts to revive mari national culture and language has continued. therefore, we cannot be satisfied with the fact that an investigation into the beating of mr kozlov has produced no results in two years and now there is a new incident. i think that the most alarming fact in today’s russia is that politically motivated killings, deaths and physical attacks continue unabated and that not a single perpetrator has been caught or tried. the latest case is that of ivan safronov, who happened to fall from the window just before he was to publish an article about illegal russian arms sales to syria and iran. sadly, the robust revival of widespread xenophobia, militant movements of neo-fascists and stalinists have become part of russia’s reality. if a government has for several years been unable or unwilling to guarantee the basic right to life and security for all its citizens and to bring contract killers to justice, then such a government necessarily undermines its own position as a credible international partner. our message today should be the following: there can be no further progress in eu-russia relations until the kremlin decides to intervene and stop this vicious cycle of killings and human rights violations. clearly, if russian citizens cannot have confidence in the justice of their own state, how can russia’s partners abroad have trust in future gas deliveries and russia’s compliance with the international code of conduct?
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members, i want to thank you for this very substantive and responsible debate. i believe that your report, and i trust your vote tomorrow, will further reinforce european unity in order to bring the kosovo status process to a successful conclusion. with the submission of president ahtisaari’s proposal to the un security council, the process now enters its decisive phase. i trust that the security council will live up to its responsibility, and i hope that it will endorse the proposal in a timely manner. then follows the hardest phase for us, that of the implementation of the status, which, as has been said today in this house, is a real litmus test for the eu’s common foreign and security policy. therefore, i highly appreciate the support for this joint challenge of ours provided by parliament and by the rapporteur on kosovo, mr lagendijk. in conclusion, i am glad that all three institutions share the view that european unity and eu leadership continue to be needed to achieve a sustainable settlement that produces a democratic and multi-ethnic kosovo and assures continued regional stability. at the same time, we are providing serbia with a tangible eu perspective, which should help serbia to leave the nationalist past behind and turn towards a european future. (applause)
, in writing. in eight years, the international community has come to the conviction that kosovo's independence is the best way to ensure stability in the region. the un special representative ahtisaari has submitted a report recommending that kosovo be allowed all elements of independence without using the word as such. the report by mr lagendijk reiterates all that is known and supports mr ahtisaari's proposal as a basis for regulating kosovo's status. but i would like to ask whether systematisation and redistribution are all the added value that the european parliament can offer. the amendment, which lagendijk himself was one of the authors, recommended that the concept of sovereignty with supervision be included in the report. that's the gist of the report. that's the kind of clarity we're supposed to have. the most common argument against the proposed amendment is fear of russian malice. for months, moscow has been warning that kosovo's independence would set a precedent for the independence of transnistria, abkhazia and ossetia. but the kremlin knows full well that no legal precedent can be established. kosovo is the only territory where the un has a sufficient mandate to recommend independence. as a member of the un security council, russia gave its consent on june 10, 1999. russia just wants to avoid losing its influence in europe. i doubt russia will take responsibility for the new bloodshed in kosovo that may erupt if independence is not granted. our ultimate goal is to prevent suffering and to ensure democracy and economic development. it takes courage sometimes.
mr president, i would like to join with mr szájer in expressing concern about the harassment and beating of peaceful demonstrators in moscow and st petersburg eight or nine days ago. this became a demonstration of force by the russian authorities against their own citizens, as thousands of security forces outnumbered the another russia demonstrators by four to one. sadly, such behaviour simply confirms the rating of russia as a non-free country by the international organisation freedom house. opposition leaders kasparov and illarionov have both indicated that, on its present course, russia is nearing the status of belarus or zimbabwe. russia is eager to be seen as a powerful state. it is absolutely counterproductive to demonstrate the might of the state at the expense of its citizens in the same way as the tsars or brezhnev used to do. mr president, i am most thankful to you for sharing these concerns on behalf of the european parliament and for having made initiatives to contact mr kasparov and others.
author. – madam president, the clampdown on peaceful demonstrators some weeks ago sends an alarming message about the future of basic freedoms in russia: freedoms of speech, the media and demonstrations. the russian government committed itself to guaranteeing these freedoms as a condition for being admitted to the council of europe in 1996. today, 11 years later, the majority of people in russia feel insecure and have no trust in law and justice. sixty-five per cent claim to be unhappy, and more than half disapprove of the government, which is already heading beyond mere authoritarianism, as one opposition leader put it. we expect the russian government to react to this resolution, which is a unanimous expression of serious but friendly concern. we also expect the european council and commission to make it absolutely clear at the forthcoming eu-russia summit that restoration of these basic freedoms will be a crucial test of russia’s ability and willingness to be a credible international partner. at this point, russia has become essentially an authoritarian state. eu leaders will share responsibility for the further worsening of the situation there if they are not willing or able to face these new realities with determination and clarity. speaking with one voice, on the basis of european values, is the only way to help russia back to the road of democracy. it is vital that russian citizens should enjoy the same freedoms – including freedom from fear and police violence – that we have been enjoying.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the recent estonia-russia issue. even after the support that estonia has received from the european parliament and eu member states, the russian federation has not taken any steps to end its systematic cyber-attacks blocking official communication lines and estonian administration websites. these attacks are still going on. they have been organised mostly from outside estonia and are coming from russian administration ip addresses. also, intensive propaganda attacks have continued via internet and mobile telephone messages calling for armed resistance and further violence. these messages are broadcast even on television and through other media channels. the estonian government has tried to solve the issue and has been very active in communication, but we have received no cooperation and no willingness for dialogue from the russian side.
madam president, the russian authorities are seeking to deprive an eminent russian lawyer, karina moskalenko, of her profession, in other words, to disbar her. mrs moskalenko is widely respected as a dedicated advocate of human rights who has brought dozens of appeal cases to the european court of human rights here in strasbourg. more then 20 of them have resulted in rulings in favour of russian citizens standing up for their rights and against the russian government. disbarring this brave woman is a truly bizarre way for the russian government to pay tribute to her. i appeal to all colleagues to stand up for the rights of this russian lawyer.
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome this discussion on the recent dispute between russia and estonia. let me state right away that this is not a human rights issue. the moving of the bronze soldier statue in tallinn and the exhumation of the soldiers’ graves were carried out with full respect for estonia’s international obligations, notably under the geneva convention with regard to war graves. however, i am aware of the sensitivity of this matter, which touches on the interpretation of history. while there have been concerns in russia about this, we made it clear to russia at the last summit that these concerns should be addressed through dialogue rather than through ‘megaphone diplomacy’. we regret that the demonstrations that took place in estonia turned into looting and riots. there is the right to demonstrate, which emanates clearly from freedom of expression. however, the fact that it led to a siege in front of the estonian embassy in moscow was unacceptable. we have made clear our views about this and a demarche was conducted in moscow immediately to remind russia of its obligations under the vienna conventions. we are concerned about cyber-attacks against official estonian internet sites. these need to be properly investigated and the perpetrators must be brought to justice. we remind russia of our joint commitment to cooperate in fighting cybercrime both in the context of the common space on freedom, security and justice and by acceding to the council of europe convention on cybercrime. today the commission adopted a communication on cybercrimes and we will certainly work on its implementation. we are also following closely the situation regarding trade between russia and estonia. there have been calls in russia for trade boycotts of estonian goods and services and restrictions on transport operations. at one point restrictions were imposed on trucks crossing the bridge over the narva river and oil shipments through estonia were reduced. our latest information is that expert talks took place today concerning the bridge and that oil shipments through estonia have resumed. we shall continue to monitor the situation. i hope that this issue has now passed its climax and that emotions will subside. we discussed it at the eu-russia summit in samara and it was also raised at the press conference. president putin even acknowledged that there might have been some overreaction on the russian side and he regretted that the estonian ambassador had to leave moscow. i fully support the presidency in calling for a ‘dispassionate dialogue on the matter’, addressing the problems ‘in a spirit of understanding and mutual respect’. the samara summit took place at a critical time in eu-russia relations. the discussions were open and frank and the media reports have, of course, highlighted the areas of disagreement between us. i think it was highly important that we had this frank discussion: we have to talk to each other because russia is and remains a strategic partner and an important neighbour. at the same time, we also have to talk frankly to them. the eu side placed considerable emphasis, as mr barroso in particular knows, on the importance of the respect for democracy and human rights, notably in the run-up to elections. the detention of garry kasparov at moscow airport, preventing him from attending a demonstration in samara to coincide with the summit, was particularly regrettable and was very clearly addressed. however, let me stress that there are also a number of positive issues to note from the summit. i would say that the picture of the summit was mixed. first and most importantly, russia was left in no doubt of the importance we attach to eu solidarity in our relations with russia. secondly, the summit confirmed that the eu and russia see eye-to-eye on the underlying necessity of constructing a strong eu-russia strategic partnership in the future. thirdly, both the eu and russia recognise that our economic and trading links in particular are larger and more intense than ever. indeed, russia is our third trading partner and we are their number one trading partner. we are working together for russia’s accession to the wto this year, which will also see the signature of the siberian overflight agreement, most probably in november. fourthly, the summit also registered that, despite our difficulties, cooperation is proceeding well in many areas covered by the four common space roadmaps agreed in 2005. for instance the agreement on facilitation of visas and readmission will come into force on 1 june 2007. in the field of education, we have the european studies centre in moscow, where there are hundreds of students who study european law. europe attracts great attention from the students. there are questions such as the early alert system for energy, which russia agreed to in principle and which we now have to work on, and finally a sort of dialogue on the investment climate and on investment in general. therefore, as i have said, i do not think the picture is black and white: there is a full spectrum of different colours, from warm to cold shades. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i fully agree with the commissioner’s statement that we do not have to look at the picture in black and white, but unfortunately the black and white situation was forced on us and was forced on one member state by its big neighbour. however, i would like to congratulate both the commission and the presidency for their convincing demonstration of solidarity in samara. i think the clear statement by the president of the commission to the russian president that estonia or poland are considered as equally important members of the union as portugal or germany should be considered a key message. i think the most important thing in the current situation was to make our counterparts understand what solidarity means for the union, which is based on common values. as the motion for a resolution on estonia states, attacks targeted at one of the smallest member states are considered a test case for the solidarity of the eu as a whole, and all the major political groups have agreed on the text of the joint motion for a resolution on estonia. i think there are some issues which you need to address collectively in future. it is inadmissible to interfere brutally in the internal affairs of any state, especially a small one. there is a crucial difference between two former totalitarian states. new democratic germany made it the basic principle of its foreign policy never to threaten any of its neighbours, and this has contributed to a very significant extent to a positive change in post-war europe. i think we need to act together to help russia take a similar stand regarding its past imperialist deeds and help it to come to similar conclusions.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to touch on two issues in recent relations between estonia and russia. first, the cyber war and second, the disinformation that president putin has been spreading. first of all. even after all the statements of support to estonia, russia has not taken any steps to stop the systematic cyber attacks on estonia's official information and communication channels and on the websites of the estonian administration. propaganda attacks on the internet and via mobile messages call for violence and armed resistance. these messages are even spread by television and other media. estonia is particularly vulnerable to cyber attacks, as estonia has an e-government, an e-state and, for the first time, this year also held elections to an e-parliament. the cyberattacks in estonia should be a wake-up call for the whole of europe. in the 21st century, this threat could be faced by any nation. we need to think seriously about how to protect ourselves, and we need to do that together. this is the first 'cyber war' in history, directed against the functioning of a sovereign state of the european union. and two. at an official press conference in samara, where the world's press was represented, the russian president said, and i quote, "in tallinn, a demonstration was not simply broken up, one of the demonstrators was killed. it's not that it was an unfortunate incident", putin told reporters, "we are concerned about something else: the person was not given help when he was wounded". putin said ganin died in front of the police. ladies and gentlemen, this is deliberate disinformation, and it is true that during the riots, 20-year-old dmitri ganin was killed. a criminal case was opened in connection with dmitri's death, during which it was found that his death was not related to the police activities in ensuring public order in tallinn. police found dmitri with a stab wound at midnight on april 27th, and the police called an ambulance at 12:26. the ambulance left a minute later and arrived at the scene at 00:32, five minutes. dmitri was admitted at 12:51 a.m., had surgery, and died at 2:00 a.m. at the hospital. i repeat, the ambulance arrived within five minutes of the police's call, so, colleagues, dmitri did not die in the presence of the police, but in the hospital.
let me warmly thank the representatives of the commission and all the member states in this chamber for their solidarity and support for estonia. i will not dwell on the events in tallinn detailed in the resolution, but will stress the fact that russia has distorted the whole course of events through propaganda. the only death of a young man, which was already mentioned by colleague savi, was spread by people who said they had been witnesses, the next morning in tallinn, the variant that he died at the drama theatre from rubber bullets fired by the police. because the location was wrong and the cause of death was stabbing, the moscow variant gradually eliminated the police's guilt and president putin informed the leaders of the european union member states in samara that the victim was not intentionally approached by an ambulance. i checked with the home secretary himself on sunday night, and he said the ambulance was there in five minutes. so this lie has been refuted twice here, but it has been emphasized by me again, that tomorrow there will probably be false films circulating in this house. but the newest is cyberwarfare, which has been the subject of intense coverage in the world's press. (the president cut off the speaker)
dear colleagues, thank you for the clear message that russia must not regard estonia as its governorate or a union republic. the bronze soldier was just an excuse. if it wasn't for that, they would have found something else, possibly somewhere else. it was an attempt to create a rift not only in estonia but also in the european union; an attempt to create instability that would justify greater intervention and help to distract from the steps taken. as a former minister of population affairs, i can assure you that this was not a national conflict, a conflict between estonians and russians. although we have many different views of history and its symbols, i assure you that these few thousand young people who have been violently attacked do not represent the russian minority in estonia. the people who came out in the streets shouted "rossiya, rossiya". we are proud of our russians who consider estonia their home and we will try to do everything together to restore peace at home. we can't change the past, hardly change our attitude towards it, but we can shape a shared vision for the future. today, much of society has adopted the position of "different past, common future".
my dear colleagues. the tripling of the budget for the common foreign and defence policy is a step forward. however, the almost 2 trillion euros allocated to the seven years are not even enough to meet the urgent needs. the situation in which the european union's weight in international relations is clearly outweighed by that of some member states is intolerable. the careless characterisation of issues of importance to the member states as bilateral is a death knell for the credibility of the european union's foreign policy. we are also weakening ourselves by allowing the russian 'near abroad' doctrine to drag its weight on potential future member states. we and our partners benefit from speaking with one voice to the world and to the world. it must be a voice of common interest, not the convenience of the great powers. the decline of the us, russia's unbridled ambitions and the emergence of new forces in the world economy are forcing us to show the potential of the european union and to make it happen. i support the rapporteur's call for more women to be involved in leadership roles.
today's regulation is a good example of what a positive european union brings to its citizens; the decline in mobile phone bills is a tangible and positive change. it is strange that the european union, which started with the single market, has to fight for the single market in one sector for seven years. but what matters is the winning finish that mr. rabbit has led us to. although the price level reached in the negotiations with the member states is not quite what i had hoped for, a compromise is better than continuing with the status quo. 49 cents for an outgoing call is six times better than three euros. it is important that the maximum number of consumers can benefit from the new prices earlier than, for example, three months later in september, when the holiday season is already coming to an end. as it is in the interest of mobile operators to keep consumers at the old roaming prices throughout the three-month transition period, we need to ensure that the new opportunities created by the regulation are rapidly passed on to all service users. we have a lot of work to do in informing the public, and so do consumer organizations.
madam president, the election observation mission in nigeria was the first one that i took part in. i have one thought that i would like to share with you in relation to that. the european union was one of the biggest donors for carrying out elections in nigeria. therefore we must hold a certain degree of responsibility that the aid given most efficiently serves its purpose. the whole organisational burden for conducting the elections was carried by the independent national electoral commission, inec. in nigeria, inec was not able to meet the organisational and logistical challenges it faced in order to carry out truly democratic elections. the shortcomings also constitute the most comprehensive part of the resolution. i guess you must share inec’s responsibility by, for example, educating the approximately 500 000 inec grassroots-level organisers so that more credible independent and democratic elections in nigeria could take place next time.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the latest europol threat analysis is about criminal markets. indeed, the dynamics, complexity and adaptability of the criminal world are second to none to those of any free market economy sector. resources are directed to where they are most productive. international competition exists because of markets where foreign powers have at times sidelined local ones. the latest technology, the growth of transport and finance, and the disappearance of internal borders are being used against us. our own slowness is being used against the rule of law. a decreasing proportion of crime is strictly domestic, but eu internal security cooperation is still limited to the framework established by the third pillar. freedom of movement within europe is a real gift to criminals. the physical boundaries have disappeared, the administrative obstacles remain. europol and eurojust need autonomy and a serious budget to work effectively. it should no longer be negotiated, nor should the european parliament's right of supervision. i agree with the rapporteur and europol that research and analysis activities need to be significantly strengthened and refocused. in addition to traditional surveillance, we need more top-down analysis to detect illegal activities in vulnerable sectors such as finance, taxation and public procurement. but our greatest untapped resource is citizen participation. it's only indifference that makes forced prostitution and drug trafficking possible. only democracy fatigue will allow corrupt politicians to get back on their feet. citizens' faith in the police and the justice of the courts can only be based on real achievements, which communication only enhances. i thank the rapporteur and ask that we put our words into action.
mr. chairman, please. as the estonian representative, i want to emphasize the importance of via baltica. it has been an important link for us throughout history with european countries and it must be built in such a way that it is fast and safe. today he's not. this spring, for example, it took more than 12 hours to drive from tallinn to warsaw, and that's not normal. we therefore welcome the opportunities offered by the 10th framework programme for the construction of a motorway, but a good road does not justify abandoning all environmental requirements. such roads will certainly not lead to a happy future. and unfortunately, the polish case also casts a shadow over the entire via baltica project, which is vital for the baltics. we hope that the court will soon give its ruling and that a compromise will be found between the commission and the polish authorities as soon as possible. i would like to stress once again the importance of all the means of communication between the member states of europe, whether road, rail or electricity lines. we cannot feel fully integrated into the european union if these links are either virtually non-existent or very poor.
the prüm agreement is a shining example of how the european union can act quickly and efficiently. the need for this contract is demonstrated by the doubling of the number of subscribers and interested parties in three months. perhaps in other words, during the time we've been discussing this report. as a rapid solution, the partial integration of the prüm agreement into the framework of the european union is welcome. but the fact that such an important contract had to be smuggled in through the back door is a disturbing symptom. most member states were not given the opportunity to participate in the development of cooperation relevant to internal security. this is another step towards a two-speed europe. but a two-speed europe can only be a temporary solution. only the european union as a whole is bigger than the sum of its member states. if we're fragmented, we can't even maintain a stable power supply. we did not have time for a thorough work that would have created a stable basis for cross-border cooperation on internal security. i'm sorry about that. the discussion of this report has revealed the extent to which member states' practices are not in line with one another. in particular, we need a common set of rules on data protection, but as long as the important problems of internal security are merely under the third pillar, there is no reason for optimism. i congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for the amendments which help to make up for much of the work that has been left undone by the institutions. but of course the european parliament cannot accept a one-off. europe must emerge from a period of reflection and move forward decisively. the european union urgently needs cooperation mechanisms that will work smoothly even when we have more member states than today.
the baltic sea is an inland sea and, due to its poor connection with the world's oceans, a very peculiar sea. the baltic sea is also highly vulnerable to overfishing, as its limited exchange with the atlantic ocean means that it lacks the capacity to absorb large amounts of pollution and that it is very slow to recover from overfishing. we had a long debate in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, particularly on overfishing and illegal fishing for cod in the baltic sea. we reached a consensus in the commission that cod should be banned for a while in the eastern baltic sea, that is to say, that a zero fishing mortality rate should be introduced. the aim would be to allow cod stocks in very poor condition to recover so that they can be managed sustainably again at a later stage. i regret that the committee on fisheries has not taken account of this one fundamental point of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in the management of cod stocks in the baltic sea. it is also in the long-term interest of fishermen to discontinue fishing at this time in order to allow the recovery of the cod stocks in critical condition.
mr president, last tuesday i had the privilege to attend the dedication of a monument in washington to 100 million victims of totalitarian communist regimes. these were not the victims of some misfortune or abstract evil. the evil that caused 100 million violent deaths is real and it must be morally and politically condemned by all international authorities, including the european parliament. it is our shared responsibility to guarantee that the famous ‘never again’ will also become valid for the nations who were suppressed by communist dictators. one-fifth of the world’s population has still to endure communist dictatorship. therefore, we must not allow these 100 million murdered people to be considered second-class victims, to whom the free world has yet to pay full tribute.
mr president, i should like to make two points concerning the midway point for the millennium development goals. first, it is quite obvious that the eradication of poverty in the world is one of the most important challenges of the 21st century for the whole of mankind. for me, as a medical doctor, it is perfectly clear that poverty and diseases such as hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis go hand in hand, creating a ‘tsunami’ that wipes out millions of lives a year. it is unfortunate that this awful tragedy has now become a bland, everyday statistic. the eradication of poverty presupposes the elimination of those diseases and the strengthening of the health system in africa through the provision of at least the projected usd 60 billion over the coming years by the g8 countries. today’s world has a chance to consign those diseases to the history books, and we have to succeed. i also welcome the g8 decision to cancel 100% of the outstanding obligations of the highly indebted poor countries to the imf, the world bank and the african development bank. the mdgs can be achieved only in peaceful conditions, which means that many local military conflicts in africa must be ended, especially the lengthy crisis in darfur that has disregarded elementary human rights. secondly, i should like to point out that the new member states, which just recently were recipients of official development assistance and which, for several years, have seen a rapid growth in their gdp, should increase their contributions, not only meet their fixed goals. naturally, i support the kinnock report.
in writing. dear colleagues, as a result of the enlargement of the european union, a large part of the responsibility for the external dimension of security has fallen on the shoulders of the new member states. many of these are small countries, like my home country, estonia. this means that the european union must act as one to protect the area of freedom, security and justice. in foreign policy and in internal security. as head of the moldovan delegation, i must reiterate that the frozen conflicts in moldova and georgia are the most dangerous sources of instability in our neighbourhood. the key to eliminating these tensions is in the kremlin. we must intensify our dialogue with russia. it means not making compliments, but open communication. the european union cannot appreciate a partner who exploits the russian minority in the member states and in countries covered by the neighbourhood policy to destabilise the situation. we must be clear that this does not correspond to our understanding of good neighbourly relations. during the april riots in tallinn, one person, a russian citizen, was killed. for the continuation of the outdated "near abroad" doctrine, moscow is willing to pay with the blood of its citizens. of course, the european parliament cannot accept this. the european union urgently needs cooperation mechanisms that work smoothly even with a larger number of member states than at present. i hope that at the european council starting on thursday, the spirit of unity will continue to prevail in order to reach an agreement that will enable the european union to become a giant of world politics.
mr president, over the decades, european states have learned to show a minimum of respect for the culture and religion of millions of immigrants. alarmingly, the opposite is true for most of the home countries of the same people. it has become common in the middle east, asia and africa for people who profess christian beliefs to face social, political and economic discrimination. in practically all muslim countries people who decide to join a christian church risk their lives. the traditional christian population in all those countries shows a dramatic decrease. even in an officially secular country like turkey, christians face intimidation, harassment and even murder. one can but agree with the proposal by a well-known commentator that turkey will only be ready to join the eu when it is just as easy to build a christian church in turkey as it is to erect a turkish mosque in germany today. i call on the commission and the council to pay urgent attention to this aspect in dealing with governments that do not allow even a minimum of respect and protection for their indigenous christian minorities.
the cyber attacks against estonia in april and may were the first of their kind to be brought to the world's attention. but these were not the first attacks on europe's vital infrastructure. the commission has also identified a number of other potential risks, including the risk of cybercrime, which could be addressed by the use of the internet. for obvious reasons, banks prefer to avoid the big clock. a breakdown in the soundness of banking systems would have serious consequences for the european economy as a whole. the areas of activity where the internet has become an essential part of the infrastructure also include public administration and the media. the failure to deter a cyber attack could, in the worst case, stretch the european union back to the last century. imagine today, in the 21st century, a situation where communication between ministries is disrupted and there is no way for the government or the media to inform the population. this is what happened in estonia, as mrs starkevičiūtė rightly pointed out. i thank the rapporteur and emphasize the timing of the rapporteur's remarks. cybersecurity is the best example of the need to cooperate to protect the eu's critical infrastructure. during the unique cyberattack against the independent state, estonian it specialists supported the european union and others. let this be an example of cooperation and a lesson for those responsible for internal security in all member states. neither wealth nor military might can repel a cyber attack. the only defense is cooperation. once again, thank you to the reporter.
given, first, the ageing of europe's society and, second, one of the lisbon strategy's most important objectives, which is to achieve a high level of employment, i am convinced that the traditional employment model may not suit a worker with a standard permanent contract. in a turbulent society, workers must be able to adapt to change and seize the opportunities offered by globalisation. i therefore believe that alternative contractual models can, inter alia, increase the ability of companies to encourage the creativity of their workforce, thereby also creating additional competitive advantages. the best way to achieve this advantage is to use the open method of coordination, which is a useful tool for exchanging information on best practices to respond to common challenges in a flexible and transparent manner. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her courage in dealing with this subject in such depth, and i thank you all for your attention.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for a very clear and convincing message and i see that we share the same concerns. ten months ago this parliament decided that trade relations with china require reciprocal market access, which has to be founded on the wto rules, fair competition and a reasonable balance of interests. the ‘round’ situation, sadly, does not match those expectations today. we are worried about the increasing trade deficit with china. we are worried about the fact that 70% of all counterfeit products on the european markets originate from china and that eu industries are suffering extensive damage as a result of unfair competition and social dumping. at the same time, many eu exporters are handicapped when trying to enter chinese markets. therefore, the eu representatives should insist first of all on providing legal security for foreign companies in china. i agree with the commissioner that imbalance in the relationship is mainly a product of politics and not economics. the widespread use of slave labour, including children, is an extremely alarming problem that should be addressed at the highest possible level. the recent cases exposed are only the tip of an iceberg. china has now been a member of the wto for six years but it has not implemented significant wto commitments, including protection of intellectual property, national treatment and transparency. i still see leverage to create a fair and reciprocal balance of relations in linking firmly china’s request for market economy status with peking fully meeting its wto commitments. lastly, china is to be seen as a sobering example, bearing in mind russia’s impending wto membership. as far as we would be hesitant about insisting on reciprocity and meeting commitments, it would be unrealistic to hope that eu support for russia’s membership will make mr putin’s state behave according to the wto rules.
as head of the moldovan delegation, i would like to emphasise ukraine's role as a guarantor of stability in the european union. the frozen conflict in transnistria is a relic of the cold war in europe. in addition to russian troops, proceeds from smuggling are also used to maintain the separatist regime there. ukraine's willingness to cooperate with the eu border assistance mission has helped to accelerate the departure of the illegal powers, reducing the budget revenues of the transnistrian regime by one third. i support the authorisation of the council to conclude a new extended agreement. although far from ideal, ukraine has made progress towards respecting human rights and expanding the rule of law. the conflict between the prime minister and the president will be resolved in kiev within the framework of democracy, as befits a country aspiring to europe. to become a credible candidate for membership of the european union, ukraine needs to strengthen its civil society and secure media freedom, increase the independence of its judiciary and make democratic oversight a norm. these objectives should be important both for ukraine and for all of us who deal with ukraine in the european union. thank you, mr. kamiński, for your excellent report.
author there are no political prisoners in transnistria at the moment. but we may hear about some arrests tomorrow. valentin besleag spent two weeks in prison because he wanted to run in local elections in early june, according to moldovan law. he was arrested by the authorities in tiraspol for importing election material from moldova. the illegal regime has banned the importation of publications with political content. it's not getting any better. the transnistrian authorities ignored the judgment of the european court of human rights, as mentioned above, which had already acquitted tudor petrov popa and andrei ivantoc three years ago. both of these fighters for the integrity of moldova were recently released only because the detention imposed by the illegal regime had simply ended. and the dissidents were banned from returning to transnistria, so they're basically settled. the european parliament has repeatedly reaffirmed its support for the integrity of moldova. the transnistrian regime has no legal basis for existence. all the more cynical is the fact that negotiations on a settlement to the conflict were interrupted by the authorities in tiraspol more than a year ago. russia might be able to convince the regime to come back to the table. but he won't. moreover, russian troops are still on the territory of moldova, or transnistria, even though the osce istanbul decision called for the withdrawal of troops by the end of 2002. with the accession of romania, transnistria is in close proximity to the border with the european union. it's no longer appropriate for us to remain on the sidelines. the european union must participate in the negotiations on the transnistrian conflict as an equal partner. as an active participant.
my dear colleagues. i would like to focus on the fight against terrorism in relation to article 6 of the maastricht treaty, which deals with fundamental rights and freedoms. my work as the head of the moldovan delegation and as a social democrat is dedicated to european security, the preservation of our values and their dissemination in the neighbourhood countries. we want stability and peace in the european union's neighbourhood. in the fight against terrorism, we need support from countries like pakistan, russia, even iran. our success in defending our values depends to a large extent on how we engage our partners. every reduction in fundamental freedoms and rights in the european union reflects a 15-fold return from the 15 countries of the neighbourhood policy, not to mention russia and china. third countries watch our actions, not our words. the commission and the council must be held accountable for the fact that the support of our own citizens for the fight against terrorism will also be lost if we fail to respect our fundamental rights as enshrined in the treaties.
acting president of the council. i believe that now, with the launch of this initiative by the portuguese presidency, we have the conditions to discuss with brazil, with all openness and frankness, all the issues that could disturb our bilateral relations, but also all the issues that could develop and deepen those relations. i also believe that this summit and this initiative of the portuguese presidency, also in what may differentiate the european union from brazil, is an extremely useful instrument for openness, frankness and the deepening of the necessary dialogue on issues which may not be absolutely coincident in the positions that the two sides may take in relation to them.
acting president of the council. in response to the question raised by the honourable member concerning the negotiations between the european union and russia on quotas and their future management, the council of the european union would like to point out that while the common fisheries policy covers, inter alia, the conservation, management and exploitation of living aquatic resources, council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 of 20 december 2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy defines living aquatic resources as living available and accessible marine species, including anadromous and catadromous species, during their life at sea. on 28 july 2006, the european community and the government of the russian federation also initialled a bilateral agreement on cooperation in the fisheries and conservation of living marine resources in the baltic sea. this agreement should be signed and enter into force in the near future, as soon as the russian federation has completed its internal signature procedures. the agreement covers all the waters of the baltic sea and its straits, but excludes inland waters. notwithstanding the geographical scope of the agreement, it contains a provision, article 13, which provides that the parties may agree to extend cooperation to the management of anadromous and catadromous species, although it excludes species whose life cycle takes place entirely in inland waters. therefore, in the present state of european community legislation, the council can only recommend to the honourable member that she address her question to the european commission, so that it raises the matter in the framework of the bilateral agreement between the european community and the government of the russian federation as soon as it comes into force.
but i am not really satisfied with the answer from lake peipsi, which is still the third largest in the european union and the only one where professional fishing is carried out. it is not an inland body of water in estonia; the lake is a border lake with a third country, russia. when it comes to the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks, estonia, a member of the european union, is doing everything in its power to preserve the stocks in peipus. but the same cannot be said of russia. so i would still like to know from the chairman how the council intends to influence russia to maintain the peps fish stocks in the same way as estonia? what specific responsibility can you take on as the country holding the presidency of the european union today? you referred to the commission, but the answer you gave was more about the seas. the peipsi is a very specific border lake, not so much an inland body of water.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report and for her excellent cooperation. i would like to mention two points concerning our human rights dialogue with third countries. and i'm actually repeating what the previous speaker said, but i think it's so important that it's worth repeating. first, the point of conflict of interest and value, which i think is very important. it is no secret that in the race for a globalized world, we have come to put our interests ahead of our values. otherwise, when we point fingers and preach our values, we forget them from time to time, given the interests. i welcome the flexibility of the rapporteur, with whom i tabled amendments concerning both russia and central asia. these are regions where interests often dominate and our values are overlooked. the european union must remind its partners of the international agreements they have signed and the commitments they have made. as rapporteur for the council of europe, i remember very well that the interests of the big countries came first, and we are very keen to point the finger at the small ones, but the standards should be the same for everyone. secondly, and as a side issue, i would like to talk about our conduct in relations with third countries and how this affects, supports human rights defenders and their efforts in the countries where they are located. we must always give hope, but not take it away. every step we take in the troubled area is being watched very closely. for example, i remember how important, how necessary, western support was to the balts in their endeavours, and how depressing the lack of it was. here again, let us remind our partners to stick to their commitments. one more time, finally. this report covers these points and i thank the rapporteur again for his good cooperation.
madam president, there has not been sufficient consistency in the eu dialogues with third countries and such a situation may undermine the very credibility of the eu’s human rights policy. these are two conclusions of this report. therefore, our message to the commission and the council is very clear: human rights issues should be upgraded into practical policymaking. in other words, they should not be conditioned by strategic or geopolitical interests. the biggest challenge remains implementing these noble goals in our current relationships. there is clearly a conflict of interest and views in the eu relations with the kazakh dictatorship. in the case of china and russia, expressing the right concern about the situations there, we should also ask whether the dialogues as they have been conducted so far have produced a real improvement in the situation. also, speaking of russia, that country should stop claiming that the eu-russia partnership is founded on shared values. in the present situation, it sounds rather ironic. we need to call things as they are, as putin’s russia is probably where hitler’s germany was in the mid-1930s. not addressing these realities with all the power and authority of the eu makes us share responsibility for the brutal violation of human rights in russia. at the same time, mr schröder called on the eu not to burden russia with exaggerated demands about human rights and democracy there. unfortunately, the fact is that the eu still lacks real grip while trying, with the best of intentions, to balance human rights and its economic and strategic interests.
my dear colleagues. five years ago, at the sustainable development summit in johannesburg, we committed to conserving fish stocks and restoring them rapidly to levels that maximize sustainable yield. the planned change in the management system sets much more ambitious targets than the current level of security and precautionary principle. but the pros and cons of change must be weighed very carefully. the european union needs a flexible system and the ability to react quickly to manage fish stocks. the long-term plans must also provide for reasonable and flexible annual adjustments. the european commission expects fish stocks to be affected primarily by fishing, but weather phenomena, predators, alien species and human-induced problems can have devastating effects on fish stocks. the environmental impact of the russian-german gas pipeline in the baltic sea has not yet been assessed, but construction is already underway. i was very concerned about the recent discovery of a species of sea bass in the baltic sea, because this species from the americas had virtually destroyed the black sea fish stocks in the 1980's and is now wreaking havoc in the caspian sea. it has spread from the swedish coast to the central baltic sea in the last year. we cannot sit idly by and wait for the baltic sea to be destroyed. the impact of the new management system must therefore be examined primarily at regional rather than european level, as each member state's fishing fleet has its own specificities. in order to implement a forward-looking fisheries policy, it is essential to involve the regional advisory councils in the discussions. the change in management system will undoubtedly also require a reduction in the number of fishing vessels and their fishing effort, and will therefore entail major losses for our fisheries undertakings. the european fisheries fund clearly does not have the resources to cope with such large losses. (the president cut off his speech)
my dear colleagues. the european union and the un will not suspend their election observation missions lightly, but we had to do it in bangladesh. in january, the military suspended democracy in a country whose two main parties were led by the world's only female politicians. i agree that fighting violence and corruption is essential to a well-functioning economy and politics, but it cannot be fought with dirty means - by suppressing demonstrations, silencing the press and undermining due process. bangladesh has been moving towards a european way of life for nearly a quarter of a century. freedom of religion, human rights and freedom of expression are values which our parliament supports with all its resources. so let's all do our part to bring bangladesh back to the path of democracy. technical assistance for the organisation of the elections and bilateral working groups are the least the european union can do. we demand a state of emergency and an end to military intervention as a matter of urgency.
ladies and gentlemen, russia has begun to show in many ways where it believes the borders of the european union should lie. one sting against the baltic states is followed by another. since august, there have been endless lines of cars at the narva border crossing in my home country of estonia. on the worst days, it takes over 100 hours to cross, with over 400 trucks waiting. the situation on the russian-latvian border is worse. the kremlin has agreed to a preliminary discussion of the problem in moscow on november 16th, but that's two months away. i would like to encourage the european commission and the council of europe to tackle the problem much earlier. and that is at the next summit, a month from now, on 26 october in portugal. i find that the parties have a great opportunity to improve relations by focusing on practical issues, such as the smoothness of border crossing. the free movement of goods is one of europe's fundamental freedoms. russia, as a candidate for wto membership, should not allow itself to be treated in this way. he wants our union's support.
madam president, today’s debate could well be titled ‘who is going to have the upper hand in conducting the eu’s foreign policies?’ will it be big corporations and third countries or will it be the eu institutions? by creating a common policy on energy, as proposed by mr saryusz-wolski, the eu will become a much stronger player on the world stage, better placed to defend the interests of all its members. a common energy policy has to become an essential part of our common security policy. as late as january 2006, the eu countries started to realise that energy has been used and will be used by russia as a central instrument of its foreign policies. president putin has openly defined the state-owned gazprom in such a role. for my country, estonia, this is nothing new: estonia experienced a full-scale energy blockade 16 years ago, when russia punished its former colony for trying to become genuinely independent. this report shows that it is high time for a united approach. too often, bilateral agreements have in fact led to looking away from democratic standards and have caused real damage to the eu’s unity and credibility. for example, the baltic sea gas pipeline project should be seen first of all as a political tool, which will enable putin’s russia to further divide the eu, by playing certain states against the others. therefore, i strongly support two key ideas of this report: creating a special eu official to coordinate foreign energy policies and including an energy solidarity clause in the future treaties. but i am especially encouraged by commissioner piebalgs for his deeply professional, constructive and forthcoming approach and i look forward to our good cooperation.
member of the commission. i would like to thank you for the convergent debate, because it confirms not only the report or the communication of the european commission on this subject, but also the position of the member states, which was expressed at the november ministerial meeting and subsequently in this half of 2007, where the council adopted conclusions which also confirm the main points of the commission's communication. just a few notes on the side: i believe that promoting both equity and efficiency in education is both a moral duty and a fundamental, such a gross financial and economic interest. it's a logic that says we need to invest in education better and more. better first, because every euro, every crown, every pound can be used in a more efficient way more effectively. many mentioned that qualifications, the quality of education, training and continuous improvement are crucial for the future status of individuals or social groups. the first ones to improve are teachers, for example, and investing in the quality of teacher training is one of the most effective factors for overall improvement, it is a multiplier of these effects. what is needed systematically for improvement is, for example, the quality of evaluation as a basic tool, not as an exception, not as something extraordinary, but as a rule, where input, output and everything in between is evaluated and quality is valued and rewarded. i would like to say that the commission will continue to deal with this subject, as is expected from the report. we want to give the issues of fairness and effectiveness of education a place, for example, in next year's theme on education and migration. we are now in the process of a consultation period on the 21st century school, i.e. what is expected of education in this new era, and we want to complete this process with a fresh look at the place of school in society in europe today. and another topic that we recently offered was the report or communication on the quality of teacher training that was adopted in august, and the very important conclusions that come from that. but in conclusion, i believe that the processes that have been mentioned, such as the bologna and copenhagen processes, the issues around adult education, pre-primary education, lifelong learning - all of them must come together around the issue of accessibility and quality as fundamental factors for a truly equitable education that we need today and tomorrow.
in writing. time does not wait. it is clear that in 2010 europe will not be the most competitive economy in the world. a proper and well-organized education system would make this goal possible. it is impossible not to note the scientific and financial level of the individual elite universities. according to various sources, 20 to 30 of the world's 50 elite universities are in the united states. five to six more to be in the uk. new europe is third with 4 out of 5 schools, followed closely by canada and australia. success tempts you to go. unfortunately, this success story owes its existence mainly to the fact that the english language education market embraces billions of potential customers. the scale effect does the rest. so harvard is ten times richer and more famous than its nearest competitor. imitating the ivy league and oxbridge elitist system in continental europe is a risky project. i'd even call it a rough patch. in both the united states and the united kingdom, the literacy and numeracy skills of the general public are estimated to be at an unprecedented level. in order to succeed, and even more so to succeed quickly, it would be wiser to invest in our strengths, which we know. the european union's undisputed educational success story is finland, whose national strategy includes universal access to high-quality education everywhere. education is by its very nature a strategic area. decisions and actions take decades to unfold. so sacrificing equality for higher peaks would not be of much use for another quarter of a century. even if it was the right way. a uniform high standard remains europe's best trump card in international competition.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for bringing up this important issue. i don't think we're gonna break in through the open door with this report. the door may be open, but if the glass is on top of us, we'll have to deal with this issue over and over again. i'd like to make a couple of points in my speech. in particular, a well-functioning gender equality policy is an important tool for achieving economic growth. despite the existence of de jure equality in all eu countries, de facto inequalities persist in the distribution of power and access to economic, social and cultural resources between women and men. this is due to the persistence of prevailing practices and their impact on the unequal distribution of family responsibilities and the barriers to reconciling family and work life that exist for most women. the precedent, however, shows the deficit of democracy at european level. gender equality in decision-making is a prerequisite for democracy, and i mean decision-making in all areas of life. liberals say that the right of the people to decide for themselves is the guarantee of success. freedom of choice, however, is realized when a man and a woman are free to make their own choices in all areas. but for men and women, i stress 'men and women' to be able to combine work and family, we need quality childcare facilities, a family-friendly work environment and a supportive legal framework. it is therefore important to improve the legal and non-legal framework and raise awareness in society. in other outdated ways of thinking, women must become participants and decision-makers, and only then can we talk about a society where the interests of both sexes are represented and taken into account, a society that is truly democratic.
madam president, 7 october last year will be remembered as a dramatic wake-up call to what is going on in russia. on that day, anna politkovskaya, considered to be a living symbol of honest journalism, was brutally murdered. president putin dismissed anna politkovskaya’s role as marginal and her case still remains unsolved. last october in this house parliamentarians called on the commission and the member states to honour the legacy of anna politkovskaya by making the restoration of free media in russia a primary condition for the further development of our relations, because, only if we send a clear signal that we value anna politkovskaya’s quest for truth and freedom more highly than oil and gas, will conditions in russia start to change. there is no question that we in europe share the values for which anna politkovskaya gave her life. sadly mr putin does not seem to share these values. respect for anna politkovskaya commits us to make this clear to president putin in forthcoming summits.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the deteriorating situation on the border between iraq and turkey. on sunday morning, 12 turkish soldiers and 32 kurds were killed in a kurdish ambush. as we already know, the turkish parliament has approved the invasion of kurdish-populated areas in northern iraq. at the same time, the prime minister of turkey, tayyip erdogan, has said that his government is ready to give orders to the army to attack the bases of the kurdistan workers party in northern iraq. hence, there is a strong probability of an escalation into a serious military conflict in northern iraq. since turkey is officially an eu candidate country, is it not time for us to act to try to stop a military conflict between kurdish fighters and the invading turkish troops? otherwise the situation might really destabilise in this fragile region and bring about frightening and unforeseeable consequences.
the second eu-russia summit of the year will begin on friday. we don't meet with any other country as often, but the problems remain. the summit on friday is not putin's farewell visit, as he will continue to hold russia in his hands. instead of singing hymns, we must discuss how to give substance to the strategic partnership between russia and the european union. it is essential for european security to put into practice the cooperation agreed in november 2003 on crisis management, in particular in the field of frozen conflicts. portugal should demand that russia treat the transnistrian separatists, declared persona non grata by the european union, as our true partner, while also banning the so-called transnistrian elite from leaving russia's borders. today, a clique of european exchange neighbors who sow instability travel freely through russian airports. this step would not be too difficult for russia, but it would also be a sign that russia is listening to europe, that we are indeed partners.
we have focused our climate policy on the energy sector. the next step is to link aviation to the eu ets. however, road transport is a major contributor to climate change and the davies report is a welcome initiative. the car industry needs clear and long-term targets to reduce co2 emissions and i support davies' approach, which sets long-term limits on co2 emissions, for example by 2020 or 2025. the car industry has had a long time to reduce co2 emissions. we should not accept a continuing delay, as there are technological solutions. i hope that, like the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the house will support my amendment, which calls for the car industry to reduce its co2 emissions by 120 grams per kilometre by 2012.
reducing carbon emissions from fossil fuel combustion to near zero is important for mitigating climate change. but to prevent and mitigate the unintended consequences of climate change, action is needed now. clean coal technologies may prove possible, but we cannot rely on them at the moment. the european union must make a real and substantial reduction in its greenhouse gas emissions, and this must remain the cornerstone of our climate policy. i am pleased that the european parliament's temporary committee on climate change has just confirmed a strong position for our negotiators for the bali climate conference in december. as far as clean coal technologies are concerned, we can of course increase the funding for the research needed at the moment, because we have to do it. but we cannot wait for decades of research to come out with nothing else to do, and that's why we need to focus on the measures that can be implemented now: reducing co2 emissions, saving energy and a broad transition to renewable energy. the itre committee's vote found that the reuli report placed too much emphasis on nuclear energy and too little on renewable energy. i therefore fully support the amendments tabled in the plenary to help balance the report. in particular, i would like to call for support for the amendment which recommends that the european commission place renewable energy at the centre of its strategic plan for european energy technologies.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the portuguese presidency on an excellent result under the circumstances. but there is one thing we need to keep in mind: the fundamental objective of the convention on the future of europe is still to be accomplished, that is, to overcome the gap between institutions and european citizens. we now have the means to apply our common european policies. what we need is political will and determination. everything now centres on implementation, and there are two principles on which our implementation of this lisbon treaty should be based: firstly, subsidiarity. defining the competences of the eu is clearly a very encouraging achievement, linked with the increased role and responsibility of the national parliaments, because our citizens should perceive that the european community will address the problems of the community efficiently and, at the same time, abstain from intervening in their lives where it is not necessary. the second principle concerns solidarity, which is a core value of the european community. agreeing on degressive proportionality in forming the future european parliament is a clear expression of that solidarity, and i am grateful for it. another very important test of this solidarity will be creating the common foreign policy on energy security, as proposed last month by the european parliament, including a special high representative on energy serving under the new high representative for foreign affairs. lastly, i would quote one fine expression of solidarity when president barroso told his russian counterpart last may in samara that, in the eu’s understanding of solidarity, poland and estonia are as important as germany and portugal.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the members for a very interesting debate. it was good to hear different views. i must say that i am very happy that the majority supports smoking bans and all the other measures that promote smoking prevention. first of all, we must not forget that the main target is to protect young people. do not forget that that new ideas come up all the time. the new fashion now is to promote smoking among young girls as a weight-control measure. all means are being employed to promote smoking, so we have to be imaginative and comprehensive in our response. i understand that some members are reluctant for the commission or the community to take measures. they say that we should wait for member states to play their part. as i have said, we are now in the process of examining and studying what the next step should be at european level. however, i must say that, even though the trend is very encouraging – over the last few years there has been a tremendous increase in countries introducing very comprehensive restrictions – the longer we wait to take measures, the more people die. we must not forget that. it is a very important factor. there is the issue of subsidiarity, but subsidiarity does not mean doing. nor does article 152 mean that we should just sit back and watch people die. it means that we should complement, support, encourage and even legislate when it is necessary. we do have the legal basis – we have the opinion on that. so it is a matter of a policy decision, not a legal decision. that is something we will be working on. as i have said from the beginning, what is important for us is how we can best achieve results, not the legal instruments we employ to do so. do not forget that the new treaty, agreed just two or three days ago, specifically mentions the european union’s involvement in the tobacco issue. that should be borne in mind as well. the commission’s green paper refers mostly to a smoke-free environment, and the debate mainly focused on that area. however, that is just one measure. we have to take a series of measures to achieve our goal. we need a smoking ban, which i will come back to in a minute; advertising bans, which we already have; warnings and pictorial warnings, which we have covered; and also educational campaigns. it is true that this is a lifestyle choice, and that people will eventually make their choice. however, we have to help them take their decision based on the true facts and, in a way, counterbalance the aggressive marketing techniques of the tobacco industry, which is spending billions of euros. we have to be able to advise and explain the problems to people, and also give them incentives not to smoke or to give up smoking. that is a very important area. concerning smoking ban exceptions, these are better than having no ban at all. i accept that. however, the fact is that this will not make things as effective as with a comprehensive smoking ban, with this being not only for the protection of passive smokers, as i have already said, but also an incentive for smokers to quit and a disincentive for non-smokers not to begin smoking. we should not undermine that. it is not strange that the majority of smokers also support the introduction of smoking bans, because they want to smoke when they decide to and not to have to breathe everybody else’s smoke. this is not a theoretical discussion. i know there were concerns a few years ago and, because this is a new debate, concerns are still being expressed. however, we now have some experience and we know that it works, and we know that it does not lead to smoking somewhere else. there is now a reduction in the number of smokers and smoking-related problems and, at the same time, we have seen that it has not affected certain sectors of the economy where there was a worry. so we can draw on those experiences and explain to member states – and even members of this parliament – who are reluctant what the benefits are and how effective they can be. concerning the issue of ingredients and additives, we are working on this. we are taking very seriously into account parliament’s position. mr florenz has been nagging me on this for the past few years. we are proceeding with that, but it needs a lot of work because the directive, as originally adopted, was not functional. so now we are trying to streamline the provision of information, and we will proceed with the assessment of the risks involved. concerning illegal and illicit trade, we are working within the context of the framework convention on tobacco control, and are currently working a protocol to control that trade. the european union is very active in this respect, and will remain so. i again want to emphasise that we are not acting against smokers, and agree with those who have made that point. on the contrary, all these measures will benefit smokers as well. i know the issue of ‘snus’ is a sensitive one for one member state. however, i have to say, first of all, that the case of holland is totally different because that member state did not ask for a derogation, as sweden did. however, at the same time – and i would be happy to have a more thorough discussion on this – snus is not a safe alternative. it is just as dangerous, as it causes different forms of cancer and different forms of illnesses. very soon, at the beginning of next year, we will have all the evidence. i am actually quoting swedish experts. so it is not a question of the rest of the european union, which is not using it, showing prejudice. i am quoting swedish experts who have shown me a huge pile of evidence in this respect. snus might not cause lung cancer, because it is not inhaled, but it has effects and causes problems. at the same time, there is no evidence that it can be effective as a tobacco-control or smoking-control measure. i would therefore be very reluctant in this area, and really doubt there is any scientific evidence allowing this. however, i have to say that i can see a tremendous effort on the part of the tobacco industry, because it now feels threatened by smoke-free policies, to promote snus. we should be cautious in this respect, because it could cause other problems and it could be expanded and promoted in an aggressive commercial way. i would be very reluctant to change the status quo as it stands today in the european union, and we have the judgment of the european court of justice to support us in this respect. in conclusion, i should like to thank all the members again for this very interesting debate. i take note of those who support and those who are against the commission’s policies. it is very important for us to hear all your views. i shall be having a more thorough discussion with you in the near future – next year – with a specific proposal from the commission based on the discussion today.
in writing. every year, cigarettes contribute to the premature death of some 650 000 europeans. none of them reach for a cigarette with a direct desire to kill themselves. smokers are addicts, victims of decades of targeted propaganda. only targeted public relations can explain the fact that while 86% of europeans think that the workplace should be smoke-free, only 61% think that it should be so for bars and restaurants. fellas, waiters and bartenders have the right to life and health protection! 80,000 people die every year from secondhand smoke. these are people who have inadvertently inhaled a mixture of 250 carcinogens and toxins. employees in establishments that allow smoking are 50% more likely to develop lung cancer than employees in non-smoking establishments. this isn't all news. yet 30% of the eu's citizens are smokers. the free market economy has failed to end a health-damaging habit that causes hundreds of thousands of deaths and billions in costs to taxpayers. clearly, the legislature must act. i agree with the report that only a 100% smoke-free environment is one that meets today's health standards. but in addition to prohibition, we also need measures to help smokers to break their addiction. just look at the amount the tobacco industry has spent on advertising and you can see the enormity of the task ahead. there's no room for half measures here. it's time to get serious.
yesterday, the hungarian puppet show opened in the parliament. it reminded me of how we sometimes vote in this house, by raising our hands in a hush. have we become puppets too? it is reported that corridor agreements were made at the request of the presidency to postpone the resolution on russia, ostensibly so as not to disturb the atmosphere of the eu-russia summit. it's scandalous that we so obediently refuse to make our position known. this is the best example of how europe has not understood in its dealings with russia that the problem is not in the details, but in our own behaviour. in the past, the european parliament had opposed such situations, but today it seems to me that the fear that is increasingly paralysing russian society is beginning to affect us too. why do we keep making exceptions for russia? do we still believe in our principles, or do we let the mindset push that russia is something so special that not only the lines, but the partnerships must be russian-style? such behaviour is disastrous both for the european union and for russia itself.
madam president, i think it is high time to face realities. mr watson has said that there are cracks in the present cooperation mechanism which are developing towards becoming fissures. the partnership and cooperation agreement declares that we share the same values. however, some years ago, chris patten wrote that he does not believe that we really share the same values at this point. the traditional feature of russian state policies is pretending – building potemkin villages – and mr putin is still pretending to have democracy while having almost completed building up the authoritarian highly nationalist state. we also pretend that the coming elections will be crucial. i doubt it, because everything has been prepared to manipulate these elections and to obtain results in accordance with mr putin’s wishes, including artificial opposition parties and the creation of phoney ngos. if we now agree to play along with this game of pretending, pretending we believe in this sort of democracy, we are going to take co-responsibility for what is going to happen in russia and for the fate of ordinary russians who deserve better than this fake democracy. i strongly disagree, therefore, with the council statement that there is no alternative to cooperation. democracy is based upon creating and having alternatives and we also have to commit ourselves to strongly defending human rights. we have to balance our relations and we have to signal that we are prepared to stop our cooperation if russia does not answer with reciprocity and openness.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, mr borrell, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for the three questions you have put to us today. in this particular aspect, that is to say the question of the prohibition of cluster bombs which you have put to the council, i shall try to answer each of these three questions which you have put to me in as concise and objective a manner as possible. as regards your first question, i should like to say that in the context of the convention on certain conventional weapons - i shall simply say 'convention' to cut my speech short - the presidency of the council of the european union, as you know, has expressed its concern on behalf of the european union about the humanitarian impact of cluster munitions. more specifically, at the third review conference of states parties to the convention, held in geneva from 7 to 17 november last year, the european union expressed the view that cluster munitions represent a particularly important element in the future work of the convention on certain conventional weapons. the union has submitted a proposal in favour of the establishment of an open group of governmental experts with the aim of drawing up recommendations for further measures under the convention. the conference of the states parties did not adopt this proposal but decided to convene, as a matter of urgency, an interim meeting of the governmental expert group on explosive remnants of war, specifically devoted to cluster munitions. at that meeting, held in geneva from 19 to 22 june 2007, the union presented a draft mandate for the negotiation of a legally binding instrument addressing all aspects of the humanitarian concerns raised by cluster munitions. this instrument should be adopted by the end of 2008. the european union troika has held extensive consultations with third countries in order to promote the approach proposed by the european union. the governmental expert group has, however, decided to postpone any decision on the legally binding instrument until the meeting of the high contracting parties to the 2007 convention, which will take place in november next year. in parallel with these efforts to solve the problems of cluster munitions, several member states of the european union, as is well known, have signed the oslo declaration and have participated in a series of meetings organized under the so-called 'oslo process', which aims at a total ban on cluster munitions. the member states of the european union participated at national level. the european union has not yet agreed on a position on the oslo process. most member states consider these two processes to be complementary and to constitute parallel efforts towards a common objective, namely a legally binding international instrument on cluster munitions. as regards your second question, i would like to tell you that, as regards the forthcoming meetings in brussels and vienna, as already mentioned, the member states of the european union, including the presidency, will participate at national level if they so decide. no common position of the union is envisaged. finally, as regards your third question, i should like to say that the recent decisions in austria and belgium, to which the honourable member refers in his question, to introduce or prohibit cluster munitions, were, as is well known, taken at a purely national level. the council has therefore not taken any specific action on this issue.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank mr borrell fontelles for putting this oral question to us. i am glad because i think this is an opportunity for us to comprehensively answer this question on something which has particularly appalling consequences. it has a highly negative impact on human beings, particularly on civilians. the question is, therefore, very dear to me because things that affect human security are always very close to my heart. i fully agree with the position expressed by our council president, but i would like to mention a few other things also. over the past year i have had the opportunity to discuss it in several formal and informal fora, including in meetings organised – the first in paris and then a later one in alexandria – by the institute for peace studies and chaired by ms mubarak. she took on this issue very strongly and i think she has tried to bring things forward. as in the case for antipersonnel landmines, explosive remnants of war pose great threats to the lives and safety of civilian populations and i would like to comprehensively answer the questions that mr borrell fontelles has asked here. their effects can be both immediate and long-lasting. by scattering explosives over wide areas they can kill and injure, as we all know, large numbers of civilians, very often children. in addition, many of the bomblets or submunitions fail to implode and to explode on impact, and their lethal effects remain after conflict so furthermore cluster munitions seriously hinder international humanitarian assistance. we have seen it in the war in lebanon. as regards crisis management and post-conflict reconstruction programmes during and in the aftermath of conflicts over the past several years, we in the commission have been very active in countering the problems created by landmines and also by other explosive remnants of war, including cluster ammunition. through the two european commission mine action strategies covering the period 2002-2007, over eur 300 million have been committed worldwide in projects covering activities such as demining, stockpile destruction, mine risk education, mine victim assistance, rehabilitation and social economic reintegration. projects covering cluster munitions have also been carried out in countries which are highly affected by these weapons, such as afghanistan, laos and cambodia to name a few of them. as for the future, we will maintain our engagement through mainstreaming actions against antipersonnel landmines and explosive remnants of war in our community external assistance strategies and programmes – so this will be everywhere. the commission also makes use of the humanitarian aid instrument managed by echo to fund humanitarian demining efforts. the most recent case of humanitarian demining support has been in lebanon, which received significant humanitarian aid following the conflict in december 2006, which i mentioned before. concerning the commission’s role in the negotiation of disarmament treaties or conventions, i would like to recall that such negotiations are sometimes not in our competence. if the community is not a party to the disarmament treaties or conventions, it can then legally only encourage partner countries to engage fully in multilateralism, in particular via participation in treaties and conventions. i think our president has said a lot on this already. we took part in the eu troika démarches carried out in key countries such as the united states of america, japan, brazil, south korea, canada, pakistan and ukraine, to promote the multilateral initiatives on cluster munitions in the framework of the convention on certain conventional weapons, and in particular a negotiation on a legally binding instrument addressing humanitarian concerns about cluster munitions. the objective is to conclude negotiations by the end of next year. at the same time, the commission closely follows the oslo process and intends to participate as an observer at the meetings planned in that context in brussels and in vienna. in conclusion, i would like to assure you, mr borrell fontelles, and also the european parliament, that the commission will continue to make its best efforts to support all the multilateral initiatives that are aimed at a comprehensive and effective ban on cluster mines.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i should like to say to the commissioner that i am encouraged by the fact that we share the same worries and goals and i thank her for her presentation and description of the developments. i am also glad about the good cooperation between the members of parliament in preparing a relevant motion for a resolution. first of all, it is a matter of urgency. it has a human and political urgency because, in spite of warning signals from all around the world, cluster bombs are still being actively used. so there are two problems we need to address. firstly, the use of cluster bombs has an especially inhuman aspect. those who launch these bombs are usually not able to target them very specifically. the failure rates happen to be much higher than might be expected. the tragic result is extremely high numbers of casualties among civilians, more than 90%, as has been said. another problem is the multitude of unexploded cluster bombs that lie in the former conflict areas. this is a major handicap to states that have resolved to start to rebuild their economies after conflicts. against this background i think the eu should take the lead in trying to ban any kind of production, use and sale of cluster munitions. the first step should be to introduce an immediate moratorium on the use of these weapons. further, our resolution insists that eu troops should under no circumstances make use of any kind of cluster ammunition until the relevant international agreements have been achieved. we ask parliament and the commission to urgently increase financial assistance to communities and individuals who have been affected by both exploded and unexploded cluster munitions, using to this end all available instruments.
mr president, we were shocked at last week’s violent clashes between protestors and police in tbilisi, georgia. the fact that president mikhail saakashvili declared a state of emergency to overcome the riots and conducted a violent crackdown is highly alarming. according to statements from the participants, the riots had nothing to do with external influences, but were the expression of severe displeasure with the government. president saakashvili overreacted, since violence is not an appropriate solution when addressing the justified concerns of the opposition. furthermore, president saakashvili declared that there would be presidential elections in georgia in january 2008. we should not overlook the disturbances. the eu has provided georgia, as a european neighbourhood policy country of destination, with advice on carrying out its regime transition. we should ask ourselves whether we have done our best to avoid such a crisis from occurring and, moreover, whether we can be sure that this will not reoccur in some other destination country.
mr president, at the recent mafra summit, the russian side proposed founding an institute to monitor the human rights situation in the eu countries. the russian representatives commend this initiative as a political measure to counterbalance continued eu criticism of the worsening human rights situation in russia. the institute in question will be financed by russia. in my opinion, the eu leaders should in principle avoid such attempts to politicise human rights issues. it is true that there exist adequate human rights dialogue mechanisms between the eu and russia. these mechanisms unfortunately have not been adequately used, due mainly to the lack of russian response to the problems raised by the eu. following this idea, one could imagine that, next, president ahmadinejad will insist on establishing on eu territory an iranian-financed institute on human rights and holocaust studies. i am convinced that initiatives like this can only discredit the noble cause of defending human rights.
member of the commission. i just want to thank you for a very encouraging atmosphere and a discussion that confirms that sport and physical education have an impact not only on health, of course, but also on certain value frameworks within which our young generation, or indeed the whole of society, moves. i think we can all agree, and very specific arguments have been made, about the importance of prevention in terms of physical education, and the need to invest more and more in prevention, because it's wise and timely. sport is also a generator of value. values such as fairness, teamwork, discipline, a sense of rules, acceptance of others, solidarity, and therefore sport is a great tool for integration, whether social, social inclusion at local level or even european integration, integration which does not mean neither assimilation nor absorption of others, but participation under agreed rules, and therefore the more education and the more sport in education, the better for coexistence. there was a very strong word from some that we agree that there is consensus, but how to do more than just agree, but act. i think there is a certain moment that speaks of maturity or readiness - the one i announced in the introduction - in that in the lifelong learning programme for 2008 to 2010 we have included among the priorities challenges for individual projects for mobility, for curricular cooperation, for school partnerships, for sport and physical education, that is invitation, that is space. the same can be said about structural funds and the modernisation of our schools. the white paper is really a very complex document, which has never been formulated like this in 50 years, because the evolution has been from steel and coal to topics that are more in favour of the knowledge society today, and sport is a very popular, important activity. therefore, such a contribution is again very important and timely. it comprises 53 activities for the coming years, many of them very close to sports education. i would like to conclude by saying that for the first time in history, article 149 of the treaty, which relates to education and youth, includes a text on sport. i believe that the ratification process that will follow the signing of the treaty will also show support for sport in this dimension and that in a few years, on the basis of the process that we will gradually develop, the european union can also create a sport programme. first, of course, on the basis of subsidiarity as laid down in the treaties. well, that's part of this discussion, but also the decisions that may come out of it. so, once again, i would like to thank paul schmitt and all those who have contributed to this inspiring report, and i look forward to working with you.
in writing. – mr president, as a former javelin thrower and current president of the estonian ski association, i am sincerely glad that pál schmitt has come up with a report on the role of sport in education. in europe there is a great variability in popular sports in different member states – from skiing in finland to soccer in the uk, from hockey in the czech republic to cycling in the netherlands. altogether we have got many talented trainers who could be more involved in professional exchange to promote diverse sports across europe and to provide students of all ages with more versatile possibilities. i fully support article 50 of the report, which calls on the commission to promote the european mobility of physical education teachers and trainers. the european union stands united in diversity and we should take stock of our extensive expertise in the field of sports. another article that i consider immensely significant is article 10, which calls on the member states to make physical education compulsory in primary and secondary schools and guarantee at least three lessons of physical education a week, even better one lesson a day, which promotes a healthy lifestyle among european youth.
mr president, with the accession of nine new member states to the schengen area, which is a true and final falling of the historical iron curtain, the eu has truly given the opportunity to their european citizens to travel and fraternise in a reciprocal manner. last autumn i drew the attention of the estonian public to the threat that the accession of the new member states might be delayed until the beginning of 2009. i am glad that the european commission has found the means to speed up the process and i hope that it has not affected the pertinence of the system. but, besides the positive products of this accession, the eu must be up to the challenge of managing the possible threats that might result from such a vast administrative unit. the sis is a necessary safeguard to secure the normal functioning of the schengen area and it should definitely be left open to future complements. now the practice might induce some new issues. working off the threats and maintaining a flexible nature is essential for the sis to address the challenges that this enlargement brings about.
ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement of schengen is an event for all 500 million europeans, but in fact for the whole world. by abolishing internal border controls, the european union is putting an end to an era of division and confrontation between east and west. i spent my childhood and adolescence in the soviet union. i remember the terror of knowing that the earth and the sky were closed, that the iron curtain was guarded by soldiers of the occupying army. joining schengen is the final release from the burden of the past. the disappearance of borders is a powerful symbol for 75 million europeans. the nine countries joining schengen are prepared to assume the data exchange obligations that come with the privileges of free movement. my country, estonia, is protecting our common external border. however, i am also disappointed that this historic event has been divided into two smaller events without any convincing reason, since the airspace borders will not be closed for eastern europeans until the end of march next year.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first i would like to refer to paragraph 21 of mr cornillet’s report, which considers that the consensus should recognise and further define the different roles, mandates and comparative advantages of the various humanitarian actors. in the case of the new member states, there are some countries, including my own, which could perform most efficiently when cooperating with the others, pooling their skills and resources and sharing individual know-how. when put into practice, this could benefit a lot of the humanitarian activities of the eu and enable the new member states to become further involved in european policies. however, the european union should be ready to start centralising its agencies to coordinate its activities in the best possible way. the second point that i would like to make is that the contribution of the new member states to humanitarian aid tends to be rather modest. the new member states that relied on development assistance and humanitarian aid nearly two decades ago now luxuriate in rapid economic growth. i encourage those countries to increase their contribution vigorously and remember that this is a chance to assist less-developed countries in the same way that the developed world lent them a hand not so long ago.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, mr swoboda has already informed you of our amendment, which was about transnistria.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, whom i would like to greet in particular here, because you have devoted a great deal of your time, your work, your effort, your enthusiasm to the development and implementation of the european neighbourhood policy. i am grateful to the commissioner for all her commitment, all her work, all her efforts, and i feel it is my duty to salute her. the european neighbourhood policy, which i shall refer to as the enp for the sake of simplicity, is an essential policy for the union. the enp is indeed a key architectural element in the union's relationship with the circle of states surrounding it. stability, security and development are interlinked processes. relations between the union and its neighbours to the east and south need to be strengthened, and the enp provides a comprehensive, united, inclusive, balanced and coherent policy framework for this. despite the specificity and individuality of each country and each society, there are common interests and challenges that must be tackled together. the fact that we are strengthening the enp is a first and foremost proof of the merits of this neighbourhood policy. only the strengthening and deepening of successful policies is discussed. we all recognize, however, that it is necessary to continue to strengthen and strengthen it. since the commission presented its proposals at the end of last year, there has been a broad consensus among member states on the need to strengthen the enp and the measures needed to do so. it is in this context that i would like, on behalf of the council, to thank the two rapporteurs of the european parliament, charles tannock and raimon obiols i germà, for their excellent and comprehensive report. parliament's views are particularly important and valuable, particularly for the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy, and will be taken into account as we move forward. as you know, the german presidency presented an interim report on the strengthening of the enp which was endorsed by the council and the european council last june. the june council also adopted conclusions recalling the main principles of the enp. first, the enp embodies a strategy based on partnership and co-ownership. our aim is to help our neighbours on the road to modernisation and reform. to this end, and for the enhanced enp to be effective, it must be pursued by all partners as part of a privileged partnership with a view to the necessary reforms. the imposition of a reform timetable from brussels is certainly not the best way to achieve results. that is why we are hearing what the partner countries in this policy want from the strengthened enp. secondly, it is a comprehensive, one-sided, inclusive, balanced and coherent policy framework. the member states agree that the enhanced relationship offer applies to all partner countries while maintaining an overall balance between east and south. thirdly, the elements of performance-oriented differentiation and tailored assistance remain essential in the eu's relations with neighbouring states. it is clear that the political framework of the neighbourhood policy must remain sufficiently flexible to take account of the needs of each partner and the extent to which they are actually and visibly making and are willing to make progress on reforms. union support should therefore be further targeted to the needs of the partners and their priorities as defined in the enp action plans. finally, the european neighbourhood policy remains distinct from the enlargement issue and does not prejudge any possible future development of the partner countries' relationship with the union. participation in the enp alone allows supporting the national transformation processes of the partner countries, in the interest of citizens, irrespective of any prospect of accession to the union. we should therefore be careful not to mix two things that are different. article 49 of the treaty on european union provides that any european state which respects the principles of the rule of law, freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms may apply to join the union. any application for accession shall be examined in accordance with the provisions of the treaty. i would now like to refer to the strengthening of the enp. as you know, one of the key aspects of the strengthened enp is to make the best use of the union's financial weight. the increase in funding to partners under the new european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is already a sign of the union's strong commitment. in order to further encourage reforms, a good governance incentive mechanism is being set up which will operate on the basis of transparent targeting criteria. the first loans under this facility will be granted this autumn. in addition, work is progressing on the establishment of the enp investment facility, which aims to increase the impact of the union's budgetary contributions and help to concentrate the resources of major donors. this new facility will be fully compatible with existing financial instruments, in particular the euro-mediterranean investment and partnership facility. in order to further encourage and support regulatory and administrative reforms and institutional development, we intend to open up community agencies and programmes to enp countries in a phased approach. some progress has already been made in this area. the commission is negotiating with the first group of enp partners the necessary protocols on the general principles for their participation in community programmes. israel, morocco and ukraine are likely to be the first partner countries to benefit from this measure. let me conclude with a few comments on what we consider to be the key elements of the strengthened enp. first of all, one of its essential components is greater economic integration, which should be achieved in particular through the progressive conclusion of comprehensive free trade agreements. the opening of negotiations on such agreements must, however, be preceded by the accession of the partner countries to the wto. it is also essential to facilitate mobility for certain categories of people between the neighbourhood countries and the european union. as a clear, tangible sign of the union's openness to its neighbours and in line with the common approach to visa facilitation, we have negotiated visa facilitation and readmission agreements with ukraine and moldova. we will also discuss the facilitation of visas for certain groups of people from eastern european countries, in particular for participation in events related to the neighbourhood policy, on the basis of the equivalent measures that have been applied since 2003 to groups of citizens from the euromed countries. finally, i would like to mention the commitment we have recently made to the black sea and the countries in the region. the 'black sea synergy' initiative aims to strengthen cooperation between the countries of the region and to deepen the union's relations with the region at all levels. in general terms, the european neighbourhood policy is in the interest of both the union and the enp partner countries. the time has now come to make it a more attractive, more efficient and more credible policy, one that ensures security and prosperity for all.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european neighbourhood policy, whose intensification we are discussing today, is a key strategic policy for me, and i would like to thank both rapporteurs very specifically for this really important report, which also gives us the impetus to continue with this policy. we want to use this neighbourhood policy to show our stability and to promote reforms. and in the face of the international challenges facing europe, this policy success is crucial not only to our prosperity, but also to the prosperity, stability and security of both ourselves and our neighbours. that's kind of the idea. i am also grateful for the essential elements that have been worked out. it is a differentiated policy, it is a policy which must have a coherent policy framework, it is a policy which actually also wants to create synergies within a regional structure - that is, the black sea synergy on the one hand and the euromed partnership on the other. it is a policy which commits itself to certain sectors. implementing and further deepening the neighbourhood policy is therefore an absolute priority. i therefore thank parliament for its support, which is essential. the results of the major neighbourhood policy conference on 3 september show that our partners and our member states are now fully in agreement with these priorities. the conference was a real success, bringing together for the first time all the enp partners and all the member states, but of course also representatives of the various authorities and civil society. this showed a clear consensus on the content priorities of the neighbourhood policy, from economic integration to increased mobility, from energy policy to political cooperation. the european parliament can play a great and important role in political cooperation, and it is also a catalyst for democratic development, for human rights, for the reforms towards the rule of law, which we naturally regard as essential here and which are a compass for this neighbourhood policy. the neighbourhood policy is already producing clear results. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the fact that ukraine has now held free and fair elections for the second time is undoubtedly a success. i hope that the political decision-makers in kiev will now take up the momentum of the past few weeks. we will also continue to work with you on the implementation of important reforms, with the help of the substantive action plan on neighbourhood policy. the negotiations on an enlarged agreement are also progressing, with the aim of bringing the country as close as possible to the european union. we will of course continue to support ukraine's accession to the wto so that we can establish a comprehensive free trade area, and we have already, as you know, reached visa facilitation agreements with ukraine and hope that this will soon be possible with the republic of moldova, always coupled with readmission. morocco is also an enthusiastic beneficiary of this neighbourhood policy and is using it cleverly as a modernisation engine, and that is exactly what we are trying to achieve. we have very clearly appreciated morocco's progress on the basis of its detailed internal reform programme, and the new aviation agreement and the close energy cooperation with the eu are also good models of working cooperation. just last week i was in rabat for talks and also there to take forward the reflection process that we have been conducting since july towards an advanced status in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. i am confident that in the second half of next year we will be able to present appropriate proposals for a new and advanced form of association. so the neighbourhood policy is working, but we must of course go further in our efforts to make it even better, even more effective, even more comprehensive. the commission has already made proposals to strengthen the policy which our president-in-office has already put forward. i think we have taken very important steps. the eastern neighbourhood lacked this regional dimension. and we have now launched this black sea synergy here again with a tailor-made process for the east. it gives the east what the south has long had with the euromed partnership, and the first meeting in this context will take place in 2008. we have also made progress in opening up community programmes and agencies to our neighbours. we are also awarding the first awards from the new governance facility again this year, proving that we can and will offer more to those partners who are truly committed to reform. and before the year is out, we'll also be setting up the neighborhood investment fund. it is intended to help mobilise funds for the neighbourhood policy beyond our normal budget, in particular to finance the major projects, such as the energy or transport sectors. i think we can say that we have achieved a great deal, but we need your support and that of the member states to bring about further improvements and further stages. i am thinking in particular of closer economic integration and also of deeper free trade with our partners. their integration into the eu single market is a huge reform lever. we must therefore also gradually open our market, including for so-called sensitive agricultural products and services, in which our partners also have certain competitive advantages, i.e. we must also ask ourselves the question: are we prepared to do this? secondly, i am thinking of the measures for further visa facilitation, which are urgently needed to facilitate contacts between people across borders. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of neighbourhood policies, and it is not just the european union that is responsible for this. we are therefore witnessing frozen conflicts in our neighbourhood to the east, which are seriously hampering the progress of our partners in reform and, in part, threatening our own security. the neighbourhood policy should therefore make a positive contribution to creating the right climate for solutions, for example to the conflicts in the south caucasus. i will of course continue to work in the mediterranean, especially with the quartet partners, for progress in the middle east, and i very much hope that the annapolis meeting and the paris donor conference will follow in order to make real further progress here. we are also ready to help the parties to the conflict in western sahara to find a long-term solution. in the coming period, the focus of neighbourhood policy will clearly be on concrete implementation. we must all work together to maintain and deepen the current reform momentum among our partners. next month the commission will adopt another communication on the neighbourhood policy, in which we will outline the steps the eu needs to take to deliver tangible results in 2008 as well, i.e. our own steps. in april, we will then present country reports analysing where our neighbours can further improve the implementation of the action plans. the commission will be able to make a number of proposals in the course of the year. the commission is aware, for example, of the different capacities and objectives of each neighbour. but as i said, with this differentiated approach, we can do a lot of things here. another important point seems to me to be ownership and the local capacity to implement this concept, and even greater involvement of civil society, where we can do much more. i should like to say a few words about the events in georgia, which are being discussed. i just want to add that we are very concerned about the recent developments in georgia. we deplore the excessive use of state force by the georgian security forces in the suppression of demonstrations and the closure of independent television stations. i think we need an independent investigation into these incidents. we also remain concerned about the continuing state of emergency and restrictions on media freedom, because curtailing constitutional rights and closing the media are very harsh measures that are not in line with the democratic values that are at the basis of our bilateral relationship with georgia and that georgia has committed itself to upholding. we therefore expect these measures to be lifted soon. i also welcome the decision of president saakashvili to hold presidential elections and a referendum on the same day as the parliamentary elections, thus meeting the main demands of the opposition. i hope that this will help to defuse tensions and i call on all parties to keep political disputes within the normal democratic process and to return from the streets to the negotiating table. we need the right conditions for a fair and transparent electoral process. i was gonna add that; i'm sorry i've been a little longer than usual, but i think after i've said that "politics is also for yourself" and i have a special responsibility, you'll understand that my heart beats for this.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. – mr president, the committee on regional development views a strengthened european neighbourhood policy as a key tool first and foremost to bring our neighbours closer to the european system of values. an efficient and open enp can provide multiple incentives for boosting economic, legal and social reforms in countries bordering the eu. true, the enp is not to be seen as a direct route to eu membership. therefore, the conditionality principle in the eu approach should provide workable mechanisms to encourage necessarily economic and democratic changes in our partner countries, in accordance with their own willingness and progress. the enp can only function as a two-way street. on a political level, i think the enp would provide us with a wonderful opportunity to deepen regular political dialogue with countries which are willing to align their foreign policy positions with those of the eu, countries like ukraine, moldova, georgia, armenia and others. the committee on regional development stresses the crucial importance of cross-border and interregional cooperation programmes in implementing the enp. these programmes should include economic and environmental as well as social and cultural aspects. i would like to stress another principle: enp should not be limited to cooperation between governments and institutions. it has to involve civil society and especially stimulate grass-root exchanges between citizens, ngos and local authorities. therefore, it is important to facilitate efficiently visa requirements for local border traffic and for specific population groups. we also call on the commission to develop guidelines for local and regional authorities on their specific role in implementing the enp action plans to develop the enp further. finally, in the regional development committee’s opinion, the enp should also include cooperation in preventing and dealing jointly with natural disasters. we encourage the member states to include this aspect in the cross-border cooperation programmes.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief given the advance of time, also playing in my favour, since i will be present at question time. this was a long debate, it was an intense debate, where i suppose everything that is essential about the neighbourhood policy was said. i also believe that there was a broad consensus here on fundamental issues, on the need for the neighbourhood policy to be a comprehensive neighbourhood policy, inclusive, directed at the north but also directed at the east and the south. it should also take account of the specificities of the policy recipients. we must of course take account of the specific needs of our partners, and we must also use the instruments that are necessary in accordance with those needs and those specific needs. the objective of the european neighbourhood policy is a single one and applies to all partners - the aim of the european union is to establish a partnership that will lead these countries on the road to economic and social progress and to the strengthening of the rule of law and of democratic life. i must say, however, that sometimes i hear in this forum and perhaps in others the reflection, rather than the reflection, the suggestion and the advice that perhaps we should increase the means, perhaps we should increase the instruments. these are generous ideas, i understand, but we must also be aware that often increasing the instruments or increasing the funding, the means, simply does not work because the absorption capacity of the countries, of our partners, is limited. we would naturally be in the forefront of those who would also like to increase the resources, but the truth is that, as i say, our partners often have a limited absorption capacity and it is not by giving them more financial resources that the programmes will become more effective and the results faster and more visible. the commission has, in my view, carefully selected the areas in which we should establish partnerships with the states that are in these associations with us, it has a very wide range of areas in which it acts, in the area of administrative capacity building, in the area of strengthening the judicial system, in the area of support for civil society organisations, in the area of support for education and training, in short, it is a whole range of areas that this neighbourhood policy is addressing. as i said, the only and very important objective is, of course, that these partners should be able to experience a development which is also in the interests of the european union itself. the council will of course continue to follow with great interest the proposals which the commission intends to submit to the council for approval in the context of the european neighbourhood policy and will of course also always be ready to discuss and debate ideas, suggestions and proposals with this parliament.
member of the commission. mr president, i will also try to be as brief as i can. i will just say that i think it was a very fruitful debate and i wish again to thank the two rapporteurs. it was really clear that a great number of members wanted to speak in this very important discussion. i shall make just a few points in response to some questions. firstly, it is true that mauritania is now a partner country in the euromed process, but it is not a neighbourhood policy country. i just wanted to make this clarification; the funds for mauritania will still come under the acp heading. on my second point, i wish to be very clear. there was criticism from some members that human rights, democracy and the rule of law were not our major objectives. on the contrary. if you look at any of the action plans, one of the major parts is always a basis for developing as much as possible human rights, democracy and the rule of law. but, of course, it takes time and we are working particularly with those countries on the question of the judiciary and the justice system, which is, of course, a basis for making differences on the ground. then one of the members of the independence/democracy group said that he did not want to have more migration. i want to tell him that visa facilitation always goes hand-in-hand with readmission agreements, so we are trying to combat illegal immigration, but we also want to try to facilitate people-to-people contact and sometimes apply some ideas for legal immigration, which is also necessary for many of our countries because of the ageing population. fourthly, on frozen conflicts, of course the neighbourhood policy alone cannot solve all frozen conflicts. for that, we also have special representatives of mr solana, the secretary-general of the council. but with the neighbourhood policy we are trying to create the best enabling environment for that. and that is highly important: in israel and palestine, when we speak about the maghreb and when we speak about the countries of eastern europe. there was another question with regard to israel’s special status. i can tell you, as i told the foreign minister, tzipi livni, when we met her in lisbon, that we have a special reflection group. the reflection group is working. the ideas on the table are very ambitious, particularly from the israeli side. but, we have to see that it fits into the overall coherent framework approach of the neighbourhood policy. but within that we can certainly do a lot. and this is what we are reflecting on and discussing at the moment. i imagine that, next year, under the next association council, we will hopefully come up with proposals for that. so we have not forgotten it; we are working on it. a last word on georgia: many colleagues who have spoken on georgia, including my friend lydie polfer, have said that the situation is very complex. we all know that, on the one hand, there are great tensions between the opposition and the government, but, on the other hand, there might be also other tendencies there. i therefore think it is highly important that president saakashvili has called for presidential elections. he has said that he will consult the population on the date for parliamentary elections. and i do hope that the reform aspect that we have really tried to promote will go on in the future, otherwise confidence in the georgian government will be very much damaged if the current crisis cannot be solved in a democratic way. but, of course, we will try to do everything to support georgia. my last point is on financing. many have said that we need more funds. but you should know that the european investment fund or investment facility that is always mentioned is an opportunity to give more funds to those countries that need them with regard to infrastructure projects, energy, transport and so on. we have therefore said that what we have is maybe not sufficient. therefore, let us have more.
in writing. – as the chair of the moldova delegation, i want to thank mr tannock for pointing out that moldova fully corresponds to the criteria necessary for a perspective of membership codified in the maastricht treaty’s article 49. thanks also to his co-rapporteur mr obiols i germà for this balanced and thorough report. moldova is not in the neighbourhood of europe, it is geographically in europe and should be entitled to join the eu once the three copenhagen criteria are fulfilled. although the eu-moldova action plan is far from being completed, we must ask what is the next step? more incentives are needed to motivate our partners in europe to make painful reforms. to achieve its aims, the financial and other resources of the enp must be noticeably more generous. full esdp missions are needed to have a realistic chance of solving the frozen conflicts in transnistria and the caucasus. presently there are no resources available to stage those missions. finally, it is hard to imagine policy which would fit both the countries of geographic europe and the non-european mediterranean countries. clearly, the scope of the enp needs to be rearranged in the future. especially its eastern component needs better definition.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to mrs. lynne for raising such an important issue. the report's aim of drawing the attention of the various stakeholders to the european social reality is to be welcomed. it's a wide road, so i can only stop at a few nodes. at the nice meeting in 2000, member states committed themselves to showing a significant and measurable reduction in poverty and social exclusion by 2010. unfortunately, the progress towards this goal has not been sufficiently successful. an open europe based on free movement and free trade has helped to promote an economy on which human well-being and a better quality of life should depend. however, in recent years it has become clear that many europeans are questioning whether the net effect of globalisation, liberalisation and the encouragement of greater competition adds anything to their well-being. today, in the 21st century, poverty and social exclusion in europe are alarmingly high. mr spidla has just said that almost 20 per cent, that is to say one in five of our population, is at risk of poverty. social services and benefits exist in all member states, but even after receiving them, one in six people live in poverty. have we asked ourselves why this is so and why this union is not put together by force? why is it that 62 years after the end of the war and 50 years after the union was created, we have not been able to guarantee the fundamental rights of the people? i ask: is a successful economy an end in itself or should it be a means to increase people's well-being? furthermore, when providing social assistance, member states are obliged to ensure that the minimum support is sufficient to enable the person to live; to provide such assistance that also fulfils the objective. we do not need a formal transposition of the directives, nor a large number of them. the question arises: is the proper implementation of the adopted documents ensured at the level of the european union institutions, even in the so-called 'soft areas' under the question? we cannot focus in europe only on economic performance and competition, but also on creating greater social cohesion and the social dimension of sustainability. and once we have made that decision, we must also be firm in our commitment to implement it. it's what our citizens expect of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by recalling what french president nicolas sarkozy said in this very hall a few days ago: all those who have not adhered to our values, who have preferred agreements, have lost everything. in uzbekistan and central asia in general, there is a risk that, given the region's energy resources, the interests of individual states will come to dominate our common values. unfortunately, this is also shown by the failure to reach agreement on this resolution, with the support of the people's party and the uen, on the council decision which suspended the visa ban on uzbek leaders for six months without any serious change in the human rights situation. this resolution is about the very critical human rights situation in uzbekistan. but there is still a perception in that country - and i heard it with my own ears - that human rights are an internal matter of that country. we cannot accept this approach and i call on you to support the first, more critical, version of the resolution.
mr. president, my fellow citizens. the european union needs to reform not only its institutions, but also its citizens and businesses, with a view to mitigating the side effects of increased competition and market opening. i believe it is important to encourage stable employment relationships characterised by a high level of trust. any changes in labour law would be more successful if workers felt safer. and considering that this sense of security is often also dependent on how easy it is to find a new job. i believe that the european union's greatest challenge is to provide a skilled and adaptable workforce, and this is the issue that should be at the heart of the european strategy for protected resilience. the creation of a flexible labour market through education, training and retraining programmes should be a priority.
mr president, commissioner, good colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. in today's high-risk society, any experiment aimed at improving people's safety is extremely welcome. security is the prerequisite for all freedoms. security is a fundamental value of a democratic society. we all remember jokela's school shooting, and it wasn't the first. but we have to make sure that this is the last one. according to the world health organization, interpersonal violence and suicide are the third and fourth most common causes of death among people aged 15 to 44. thus, they are the leading cause of ill health and premature death in the world. a lot of these are the result of gun violence. however, the high number of deaths caused by firearms is attributed to their easy availability. it is therefore extremely welcome that the european union has recognised the need to address this threat. there is one more aspect i would like to consider. since the adoption of the directive in 1993, the internet has evolved considerably and has become a purely electronic marketplace. the objective of the directive to combat illicit trade in firearms can therefore only be achieved by including online commerce within its scope. i therefore believe that the member states of the european union must respond appropriately and coherently to the international situation in question. this requires the harmonisation of both preventive and punitive provisions and their conversion into an integrated and uniform policy. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur and his good partners.
mr president, i should like to draw your attention to a document that this house is about to work on: the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1228/2003 on conditions for access to the network for cross-border exchanges in electricity. it concerns me that the proposal from the commission does not contain articles that would allow member states to limit the import of electricity from third countries if environmental regulations there are weaker than the ones applied here in the european union. the european union should not make any concessions to energy suppliers that produce electricity at a low price but with a disastrous impact on the environment. this would be spineless disloyalty to our values, as well as unfair to european energy suppliers that comply with the necessary standards.
my dear colleagues. europe must not sacrifice its security for the liberalisation of the energy market. certainly not as long as third countries use energy as a tool of foreign policy. gazprom is taking advantage of both the frozen conflict in transnistria and the closure of gas taps and export channels in its purchase of the moldovan gas pipeline. given moldova's vulnerability, i have no doubt that building additional links between different market regions, member states and third countries that meet our criteria will increase our security. but in smaller member states, even more needs to be done for security. estonia's economy and military capability are outnumbered by our neighbour and multiple conqueror russia. both energy production and distribution are of strategic importance for estonia. i believe that in such a situation it should be allowed to keep both companies in state ownership even after their separation. it's really important to us, believe me.
mr president, this weekend the european council will also discuss energy problems, which have become the issue of common security. against this background, let me address three wishes to the european council. first, i would like the council to support the commission’s proposals on ownership unbundling and restricting the majority hold of third countries’ capital on the electricity and gas markets. this is a key issue in securing fair competition and avoiding opaque deals between state monopolies. second, i would like member states to be able to restrict their electricity imports from third countries in cases where this could substantially endanger long-term supply security. third, may i remind the council of the european parliament resolution on energy security from september, which proposes the post of an external official for energy security?
the oceans are the least explored and known part of the biosphere. the precautionary principle, as it is known in the field of environmental protection, is all the more important in the use of the seas. fortunately, the rapporteur shares mrs lienemann's approach, for which she is grateful. hopefully, we can reach an agreement with the council at second reading and the implementation of the maritime strategy can start soon. i would like to stress in particular my support for amendment no 29 to the report, which seeks to establish the baltic sea region as a test area for the implementation of the european union's maritime strategy. of the seas surrounding europe, the baltic sea is arguably the most threatened, due to its shallow waters and poor water exchange with the atlantic ocean. for this reason, the construction of a gas pipeline is not analogous to a gas pipeline in the north sea or the mediterranean. if the baltic sea were already a test area for the eu's maritime strategy, the nord stream project would probably be left out. fortunately, the eu does not have to create a baltic sea action programme out of thin air. the helsinki commission for the baltic sea has made the necessary preliminary work in the framework of the baltic sea action plan. the baltic sea can therefore be used successfully as a test bed for a maritime strategy. it is also positive that through helcom russia can be involved in the implementation of the baltic sea action programme, without whose participation it is difficult to ensure the protection and good environmental status of the baltic sea.
madam president, a few hours ago the president of the european parliament signed the charter of fundamental rights and declared that ‘we have a moral and political obligation to defend human dignity. this applies to each human being in this world.’ and the portuguese prime minister stated that ‘the charter is part of the eu foreign policy’. let me turn to china. we understand that, by becoming the host of the beijing olympics, the chinese government committed itself to fully respect both the olympic ideal of human dignity and internationally guaranteed human rights. the european parliament now has to conclude that there has been a recent increase in political persecutions related directly to the olympics. in addition, more people are being executed in china than in the rest of the world combined – up to 10 000 a year. defenders of human dignity are being arrested, and up to seven million people are being tortured in the notorious laogai camps. what should we do? i think the answer was provided here yesterday by the sakharov prize winner osman, who told us to put more pressure on the respective governments: to do something concrete. there is an understanding of the sin of omission – responsibility for what we could and might have done but failed to do. it is not enough to voice our concerns; it is time to apply the principle of conditionality and to declare, as our colleague, mr watson, told us: a deal is a deal. the only way to make the communist dictators in china respect their citizens more is to send a signal that we take our own values of solidarity and human dignity seriously enough to make dictators feel real pain for their abuses and arrogance.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i will be very brief. the second eu-africa summit was a complete failure: the two parties did not reach an economic partnership agreement, and relations between those two parts of the world have been frozen. the tense situation in eastern chad has not helped much either. one of the prerequisites for fruitful cooperation would be an end to the decades-long military conflicts in africa. when resolving the conflict in eastern chad, the european union must demonstrate that we are determined to reach a peaceful solution and send our peacekeeping military mission to eastern chad as soon as possible.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, when addressing the issue of women’s rights in saudi arabia, there is something that we need to keep in mind. this is that in islamic societies there is no separation of religion and state. the state is the religion and vice versa. the lack of regard for women’s rights derives from islamic law, and by comprehending and taking into account this simple fact we might move a step closer to improving the situation. we cannot impose our values, which have gone beyond our judaeo-christian traditions, but we can open a dialogue calling for mutual understanding and preparing the ground for a reform, as several conceptions that do not correspond to our worldwide view are now being disproved. having said that, the situation of women in saudi arabia is dreadful, and something needs to be done urgently. i therefore urge my colleagues to support this report unanimously.
