mr president, mr chancellor merkel, first of all i would like to thank you for your excellent speech. it was profound and linear and it showed leadership, commitment, which is rooted in european values and convictions. your speech has long been a beacon of hope for our europe. i admire you and your way of framing the future of the european union. i believe and hope that the next six months will also bring concrete results. you raised a lot of important issues: the constitution, energy issues, climate issues, the situation in the middle east. i really hope that new steps towards peace can be taken in the middle east too, starting with the release of the three israeli soldiers who were kidnapped, and that this will create a new hope not only for europe but also for the middle east, which is also important for our future. i wish you strength, health and blessings in your work for a greater europe.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs hedkvist petersen, for her excellent work. i have already got to know you a little bit in the work of the committee, and you have been very diligent and committed to your work in the committee, and therefore you have particularly taken these road safety matters to heart. i thank you for this and for this report and for the work you have done. it is true that we have a lot of legislation in the european union. the key is how you follow them. the greatest threat to road safety is still found between the steering wheel and the seat. we need to have a road safety education and training and i think it would be good if we could have uniform criteria for road safety education and driving licences throughout europe, because we have freedom of movement. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's transport policy. mr president, i would also like to say that there is only one possibility, zero tolerance, as regards the alcohol limit. alcohol and the vehicle are always incompatible, and therefore there is a zero tolerance for alcohol throughout europe.
for the verts/ale group mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr záborská, for the good work he has done and i would also like to congratulate him on his election. it is good that the european parliament has obliged the committees to make gender mainstreaming a reality. this is a process which will undoubtedly take a long time and it is important that the femm committee be at the helm of this process. i know that there are also colleagues in this parliament who question this, and i feel that they are the ones who most need equality education. when i was appointed as the person responsible for this issue in the environment committee, i asked the femm committee to specify the tasks that should be done to mainstream equality, and the femm committee did so in the form of a questionnaire, which was very informative and welcomed. i am making a preliminary proposal to the envi committee on the basis of this questionnaire from the femm committee. there is no decision on this yet, but i would suggest in my committee, for example, that the committee produce a statistic every year on the gender balance among coordinators, rapporteurs and the secretariat, and that a pilot issue be selected, in particular to mainstream and identify issues where there is particularly close cooperation with the femm committee. i think the femm committee could make more concrete proposals to the plenary for decisions like this on what the committees should do. i believe that the most effective way of moving this matter forward would be for the plenary to take both binding decisions and recommendations on matters to be dealt with in committee. finally, mr president, i would like to say that the political groups must also pay attention to gender equality. the political groups have a major say in how equality is achieved, both in the election of group presidents and in the filling of committee chairs and vice-chairs in intergroup negotiations.
madam president, i am very proud that we now have the first female first-vice-president. i wish to congratulate you, as we now have some women in the main body of the european parliament. i welcome this report on gender mainstreaming in the committees. is it unique? it is unique of its kind. i should like to thank the rapporteur in particular for her excellent work. it is of the utmost importance that the european parliament uses its influential position in the community to support and promote gender equality through healthy self-examination of its own methods of working. the right to non-discrimination is protected by several european treaties, in particular the charter of fundamental rights. nevertheless, we need to continue developing the legal instruments in order to protect everyone – man or woman – from discrimination based on gender. coming from a country, finland, with a long history of working for equal opportunities for men and women, i was very pleased with the findings of the report by the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. it showed that most of the committees, at least, attach some importance to gender mainstreaming. however, i would underline that we still have a long way to go. i support the ideas put forward by ms járóka, for example that all committees should have female members. even though the number of women in the european parliament continues to increase, inequality continues to exist when it comes to the really important positions in the political bodies, such as committee chairs, etc. i therefore urge each and every committee to put gender mainstreaming into practice in its own work, since this is one way of enabling women to take part fully in the decision-making processes of the eu. finally, i should like to emphasise the need for specific data broken down by gender. after all, that is the only way really to evaluate how we are doing and what still needs to be done. such gender-based statistics are very important for our future work.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mrs wallis for her pertinent work on this dossier and for her excellent cooperation as the alde group’s coordinator in the committee on legal affairs. together with the rome ii regulation, the eu is establishing a coherent legal framework with regard to relationships between international private laws and other community instruments. this regulation should promote rather than hamper the proper functioning of the internal market, in particular the free movement of goods and services. i was very unhappy to hear that the negotiations with the council have been unsuccessful so far, but i am absolutely certain that mrs wallis will continue to raise the points of both our committee and parliament. i should like to raise two issues in particular. firstly, the violation of privacy and rights related to the personality, including defamation, should be excluded completely from the scope of rome ii. in the absence of rules protecting editorial independence, exclusion would be the only viable solution that would not undermine press freedom. it is regrettable that the council did not give its support for this amendment at first reading. the second issue is an important question of principle – as was the previous issue – notably regarding article 9 of the proposal regarding industrial action and applicable law that raises specific difficulties for the european maritime and shipping industry. the swedish government proposed this article in the spring of 2006, with reference to the european court of justice judgment in case c-18/02. this case concerns questions regarding jurisdiction and choice of law when a ship flying the flag of one member state is being boycotted in another member state. ships moving around are typically serving harbours of different countries. if industrial action against ships were to be governed by the laws of the different harbours served during a voyage, the rules that would apply would vary all the time, i.e. different rules would form the basis of legality of industrial action taken against a ship. this would both be impractical and create great uncertainty. it is generally the case that all internal relations on a ship are governed by the law of the flag state. therefore, let us not give these powers to the labour unions, which would certainly use these provisions to blackmail our shippers and hamper the competitiveness of the european seafaring industry.
mr president, climate change has only become a reality for many people now that the price has been paid. it is estimated that the cost of inactivity is as high as 20% of global gdp. but if we act now and stop climate change at two degrees, the cost is a fraction. in addition, investments in a low-carbon economy are creating a global market for energy-efficient technologies, which is forecast to grow to up to eur 27 billion by 2020. to join this technological development, the union must create a functioning domestic market for renewable, low-emission forms of energy. it must be remembered that nuclear energy cannot be the answer to this question, especially if we want europe to be self-sufficient in energy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i shall not repeat what has already been said, but i would just like to mention one point. the european parliament must enter into a direct dialogue with the newly elected us congress. instead of following the american debate through the media, it is our responsibility to act. the political balance in congress has changed, and right now the door can be open to the cooperation that must be established for change to occur. congress has now even created a special subcommittee on climate change. if the eu and the us do something together, we are strong. only together can we influence countries like china and india to join the global emissions trading scheme. they should not be allowed to pollute their environment and ours just because they are developing countries and then, once they have reached a high standard of living, take on a global environmental responsibility. i suggest that the chairman of the environment committee immediately contact his sister committee in the u.s. congress. a joint meeting of the committees responsible should be organised as early as this spring. the aim of this dialogue must be to bring the united states and the other countries left out of the emissions trading scheme into it. we, the people of europe, must dare to take the bull by the horns. that's why we were chosen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the day after tomorrow a scientific report from the united nations will be published, which says that the earth is likely to warm by three degrees celsius in this century. if this happens, it means that the melting of the greenland ice sheet is inevitable and that sea levels will rise by at least seven meters. it means that the map of europe will be renewed. we have to stop this. there is a great urgency to take practical action to limit global warming to below two degrees, which is the eu's objective. but we must move from rhetoric to action. against this background, it is very disappointing that the eu commission has today once again postponed the mandatory co2 emission limits for cars. we must realize that the most important are the measures to improve energy efficiency and fuel efficiency. it also applies to transport. we must not avoid this by substituting biofuel for fuel efficiency. if this is attempted, it only means that environmentalists are turning against biofuels. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, as my colleagues have said before, this is not a debate about the shape of the transatlantic relations. everyone in this house should know that the united states is our strongest ally in the fight against terrorism. but this does not change the fact that if we are partners it makes it easier for us to stand firm and really defend our values and our laws. i can only echo what my ppe colleagues – especially mr radwan – have said: in order for us to really safeguard the respect of the european regulatory framework, we need full information from the commission and council on the information that is delivered to the us authorities and how this information is protected by the us authorities. we have to start to negotiate and get an agreement on information exchange which is on a viable basis and which respects the eu laws. if this does not happen, we have to immediately stop delivering any kind of information to the us authorities. even after the ecb’s response, i am quite puzzled as to what the role and the responsibility of the ecb is in this case. the ecb itself is subject to the data privacy requirements of eu law, but it does not seem to take any responsibility for what it might have in this information exchange. i also understand that there is a clear need for the us to track down information on international bank transfers that might have a link to terrorist financing, but these details have a link to other kinds of financing. our european businesses, especially, might be at risk if we do not act and stand firm. the information that will be given should always be in line with our legislation and protect our citizens and european businesses. the national financial transfers contain such delicate information that this is really an issue which should be taken seriously by the commission and by the council, this parliament and the us congress.
on behalf of the ppe-de group . – mr president, the rapporteur has done excellent work with this report. there is much to applaud in this initiative. this, like our rapporteur said, is a practical solution to a practical problem. for one, it concerns one of the unfinished areas of the single market: how people’s rights travel with them when they exercise their four freedoms inside the union. the european parliament must point out any anomalies and invoke its treaty rights to prompt the commission into action. secondly, it concerns justice and home affairs. people need as much certainty as possible about their rights and obligations in order to engage in any society. engaging across borders in always going to be more uncertain than doing so at home but we have a duty as eu legislators to address these concerns. the mere fact that the disparate national laws do not allow for a quick uniform solution is no excuse for inaction. the european parliament is doing its part by opening the debate today. the commission should follow with a proposal and the member states should assume their sovereign responsibility and enact the necessary changes, employing the passerelle clause of the nice treaty if needed. however, we have to be careful how we approach this. while my group strongly supports the report of mrs wallis, we cannot support her amendments to it. we believe it is too early in this report to point towards overly-harmonised and specific definitions of, for example, date of knowledge, interrupted proceedings, and special rights of minors. we do not believe them to be fully consistent at this stage with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. let us first hear about the commission’s inquiry as to what kinds of cross-border problems exist in the domain of limitation periods in cases of personal injury and then move on to the concrete definitions. for example, if the inquiry were to show that there is not such a huge discrepancy between member states’ rules, the country of origin approach, as the report suggests, might show the way. personally i would support this approach.
mr president, since the 1960s, 14 people have died in italy in football-related riots. last week, a family policeman was killed in sicily when a spectator threw a bomb at him. but there are problems all over europe. it is sad and a shame for europe as a sport that football is soaked in violence both on and off the pitch. all football stakeholders must be involved in the defence of the sport's tarnished reputation. zero tolerance for racism and violence seems to be the only way to combat these phenomena. the criminal penalties do not work, but we must strike at the finances of the clubs, as has been done now. the fact that the games are interrupted and the stands are empty is hurting the clubs' finances. so they cannot neglect their responsibility to improve safety for long. this also gives clubs a genuine interest in disciplining their own supporters.
for the ppe-de group mr president, as a member of the conciliation committee, i would like to begin by thanking both the rapporteur, frida brepoels, and the chairman of the delegation, alejo vidal-quadras, for their well-done work. the finnish presidency also deserves thanks for the conciliation process. the availability of reliable scientific information and the smooth transmission of that information are essential to the success of community environmental policy. the proposal for a directive, now reached through conciliation, which creates the legal framework for the establishment of the european spatial information infrastructure inspire, is thus the basic precondition for scientific evaluation under environmental legislation. the main objective of the various stages of the inspire process was to reduce the obstacles which hinder the sharing of environmental data between public authorities. the conciliation process resulted in a good agreement on the principles under which the public authorities and other community bodies may have access to cartographic and other spatial data held by other public authorities falling within the scope of the directive. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013). in the future, more extensive online services will be available to describe the environment. these services for citizens are generally free of charge. for rapidly changing data, such as certain weather information services, the collection of fees is allowed. the community already had some tools in place before the creation of inspire, which could initially promote the availability of reliable data, in particular public sector data, and later harmonise the data for comparability at community level. one of them is the directive on public access to environmental information, for which i was rapporteur. the problems identified in its handling have been taken into account in the preparation of inspire, for which i thank you. overall, the directive creates a sound and functional basis for the development of both national and european spatial information infrastructures and allows the maintenance of high-quality data and services in the member states.
mr president, i think that mr jackson deserves great credit for the difficult task he has been given. the waste is a good example of how environmental friendliness can sometimes be very different in theory from in practice. it is high time to clarify, simplify and harmonise community waste legislation. we have seen too many cases where the court of justice of the european union has finally determined what is waste or how it should be treated. we now need clear and workable criteria and guidelines so that our waste legislation can also support our lisbon objective, while guaranteeing a predictable operating environment for operators in the sector. the generation of waste must be prevented both in terms of quantity and quality. we must be able to define by-products and when waste is no longer waste, in order to reduce the use of virgin material as much as possible. at the same time, the possibilities for the recovery of waste material must be increased so that the amount of waste to be disposed of is as low as possible. i am therefore very concerned that the compromise report from the committee on the environment, which is at the same time a quality report, is not able to meet the objective it has set itself. for example, the paragraph in the recital whereby all by-products are considered waste in principle, in the absence of clear case-by-case criteria in the legislation, would be disastrous for our community. in practice, however vital and useful the substance or material produced as a by-product might be, for example, for further production or re-use, it would always be construed as waste or fall within the scope of the waste act for safety reasons. however, the fact is that industrial activities generate large quantities of material whose exact composition is known and which could be considered at source as a separate part of the rest of the waste stream. this would make it easy to exploit, the risks fully controlled and the energy saved. similarly, a strict waste hierarchy, from which it is now possible to deviate only after a life-cycle assessment and a cost-benefit analysis on a case-by-case basis, would be legislation that we cannot justify in any way for the functionality and competitiveness of our waste management. this only slows down the process and brings with it huge amounts of unnecessary bureaucracy. it is precisely such pitfalls as these two that we must avoid. i am confident that with the amendments we are proposing in cooperation with mr florenz, parliament will be able to correct these problems which have been brought about by the compromise.
i think, mr president, that the committee on the environment has achieved an excellent result on waste legislation through compromise, and i hope that this work done in the committee on the environment will also be supported in this house. the committee's overwhelming majority supported the idea that the five-level binding waste hierarchy should remain the cornerstone of eu waste policy. the most important part of the hierarchy is reducing waste. to achieve this, clear and binding eu-level targets are needed to reduce waste and increase reuse and recycling. we also need to reevaluate our way of life. the shift from the current single-use culture to a sustainable one in production and consumption patterns. it says here that the amount of waste is growing and growing. they do, but in finland, for example, the amount of household waste has already been stabilised. but we really must work now to reduce the amount of waste. the waste hierarchy is the central issue for us, but when it can be demonstrated, on the basis of a life cycle approach, that a different measure makes sense in accordance with clear environmental criteria, flexibility can be shown in this respect. the incineration of waste cannot be an alternative to landfill, and even then, of course, the emission criteria must be applied.
mr president, chancellor angela merkel spoke beautifully here at the meeting last january on energy and climate change. now is the time for action. i hope that chancellor angela merkel and germany will put their strength and their prestige to work to ensure that the eu acts as an initiator and a pioneer in the field of climate change and in the mitigation of climate change. the fight against climate change is based on two key elements: reducing co2 emissions much faster than now and making the eu much more energy efficient. it has been calculated that responding to climate change will eat up about one percent of the world's gross domestic product, which is expensive, but the same calculations show that doing nothing and not getting anything will cost even more and even multiply. the implementation of the lisbon strategy therefore requires that climate change is also taken into account and that action is taken to address it.
mr president, i have three points to make on the european council. it is a pity that there are not more people here, but nevertheless i will make the three points. the first one is on the lisbon agenda. we are going to sign the berlin declaration at the end of march. one of the key points there has to do with the lisbon agenda, and that is the free movement of goods, services, people and money. it needs to be included simply because it is one of the founding principles of the whole european union. we are unfortunately living right now in a time of protectionism. that protectionism needs to end and we need to see a message in the lisbon agenda and the berlin declaration on that point. my second point is that, in my view, the european union has been missing its red menace ever since the end of the cold war. indeed, we had the euro in the 1990s and enlargement in this decade, but ever since we have been looking for something and i think the debate today shows that that something has been found: climate change. in many ways we should actually thank president putin for bringing energy policy onto the european agenda, because had he not done what he did in ukraine, i do not think we would be as excited about discussing energy sufficiency and the energy mix as we are today. i am really happy with the direction in which the commission is taking the energy debate, the environmental debate and the debate on climate change. the final point i wanted to make is on my favourite subject: the constitution. i know that it is not on the agenda of the european council in the beginning of march, but i would just really like to urge the german presidency to continue the good work it has done so far in keeping it going. we need that constitution and we need it badly for three reasons: one, it makes the union more efficient; two, it makes the union more democratic; and three, it makes the union easier to understand. i hope that that treaty will get a roadmap at the end of the german presidency so that it can enter into force in 2009.
mr commissioner, i come from finland, where we have also opened the postal services market, as has happened in sweden. i have to say that it was very good that someone from a country where they have not done the same is putting the swedish and finnish model forward as an example of the positive consequences that postal market liberalisation has had. the only problem we have seen in those countries where liberalisation has happened earlier than other member states is that the old monopolies from the member states that still have a monopoly market have tried to come to our markets and use the liberalisation on their behalf. that has been a very negative consequence of an early opening of markets. so i would like to ask if the commission intends to keep the deadline and really open the markets before 2009. if so, it will get all our support for that.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, we are now considering goepel's second report on voluntary modulation of direct payments to agriculture. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work both as a defender of agriculture and as a guardian of the powers of the european parliament. the commission proposal builds on the european council decision when it reached a compromise on the multiannual financial framework. it allows member states to cut direct agricultural aid by up to 20% and use it as they see fit for rural development. voluntary modulation would therefore be an additional tax which a member state could levy on its farmers. in addition, farmers would naturally have to pay taxes in accordance with the tax legislation of the member state concerned. it would reduce farmers' incomes without any compensation. the modulated amount would allow the member state to compensate for its own contribution to rural development, so that modulation would not even add funds to rural development. voluntary modulation would undermine the delicate balance created between the different member states and regions of the european union and would place their farmers in a different position. that would distort the common market. on the other hand, voluntary modulation would transfer funds within the eu budget. in particular, the amounts and ratios of compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure would change. the european parliament would have no say in this. the classification and amounts of the expenditure are precisely defined in the interinstitutional agreement, so that any change would be contrary to this agreement and would require an amendment of the agreement. it is inconceivable that the council should be breaking the interinstitutional agreement more than a month after it has entered into force. the aim of the common agricultural policy is to guarantee stable, transparent and equal conditions for farmers to practise their profession. voluntary modulation would be a strong attack on these principles. the eu's legitimacy is based on the pursuit of fair and balanced policies. voluntary modulation does not meet these requirements. eu funds must be used for the purpose for which they are budgeted. if the member states start to direct eu funds to their own budgets, the whole of eu budgetary policy will fall apart. the solution is now in the hands of the council and the commission, including a 20% reserve for rural development resources. the solution would have been reached long ago if the commission and the council had consulted parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you guys! the committee has succeeded in reconstructing the activities of the cia with the active or passive participation of the member states on the territory of the eu. for example, we know that the same aircraft made 99 flights between frankfurt and ashgabat in totalitarian turkmenistan. afghanistan, azerbaijan, egypt, jordan and libya have also been important destinations. president bush has admitted that there are secret prisons outside the united states. the member states carry out self-examination by means of internal investigations. what a year ago were only vague hints have now taken on clear contours. it's a great success. if we cannot fight terrorism by legal means, we cannot serve as an example for others. this is important, we must achieve a better balance between the demands of society for security and the rights of the individual. the fight against terrorism cannot be won by sacrificing the protection of human rights, which is what terrorists want to achieve.
mr president, the report shows how fragile democracy and respect for human rights are in the eu countries. eu countries cannot wash their hands of the illegality of counter-terrorism activities and only blame the bush administration for excesses and human rights violations. the united states could not act unless many other countries tacitly accepted and assisted in the illegalities or even directly participated in the implementation of their global dimensions. the eu countries have been key players in this. the european states cannot renounce their responsibility for the safety of their territory, their airspace and the people on their territory. in short, counterterrorism is not won by abandoning human rights. and finally, i would like to say that during the second world war we shared a common vision of human rights across the atlantic, what has happened to that, is there any such thing now?
mr president, this is an oral amendment to the last indent of amendment 4, by the pse group. i shall read the oral amendment, which is slightly different to our voting list text. the indent should read as follows: ‘as policymaker, to ensure, in cooperation with central banks and financial institutions, that european payment systems, including the updated system for wholesale payments “target2” and the planned system for target securities if it becomes a reality, are fully compliant with european data protection law; calls for the ecb to provide the european parliament with the assessment of such compliance;’
mr president, paragraph 34 of the climate resolution we have just voted on asked the commission to draw up a map of the risks of nuclear power stations in the event of floods and tsunamis caused by climate change. the idea behind the campaign is finnish, based on a fictional novel and has no scientific basis. in the novel, a tsunami caused by climate change caused a devastating nuclear power plant accident. i am in favour of greater caution and risk assessment, but this initiative was embarrassing and a real disgrace to the reputation of the committee on the environment. first of all, climate change is not causing tsunamis. for serious scientists, the idea is absurd. the colleagues behind the initiative are right that risk mapping is always necessary in power stations, but wrong in suggesting that it has not already been done. no nuclear power plant is built without ensuring its flood resistance. i am therefore obliged, mr president, to ask the commission to also identify the political risks posed by initiatives of this parliament which are based on pure fiction. i am glad that this problem has now been avoided.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. colleagues, commissioner, representatives of the council! the right to move within europe is a fundamental, existential issue. the fact that the union has now entered into a visa facilitation agreement with its eastern neighbours is of course a good thing. it cannot be overstated how important the visa rules are for the perception of the european union by the outside world and the perception of the third country, in this case russia, by the citizens of the union. if you are travelling in the eu's border regions, this is often the first question you encounter. we parliamentarians have a great responsibility. it is our responsibility to assess the contract and its actual content. it's no secret that the liberal group has been dissatisfied. the european traveller to russia faces two problems in practice, unless he travels on a group bus. he must have an invitation from a russian organisation or individual. what ordinary eu citizen has such contacts? the second obstacle is that he must register with a russian local authority within three days of his arrival, a registration which may take several days. how do you do that if you're not in moscow or st. petersburg? none of these issues are addressed in the agreement. we must be clear that the agreement is a declaration and not a document with significant content. if i am correct, many in this house also believe that the agreement will bring visa relief for all young people and all students. it's not like that. only those who already have a place would see some small relief. in that case, the stay shall not exceed 90 days. there aren't many programs like this. despite all its shortcomings, parliament has shown a constructive attitude. we understand the important political signal. however, it is important for all of us, our citizens, that the commission and the council commit themselves to work with determination for substantial visa facilitation from now on. without such a promise, the liberal group will vote no. the commission and the council have presented a declaration which partly complies with parliament's wishes. i have a question, however, to commissioner ferrero-waldner: what is the next step you intend to take to abolish in concrete terms the registration requirement and the invitation system? both these issues are in line with the overall objective of the whole agreement, namely the abolition of the visa system.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, both eu and russian citizens are required to have a visa as a travel document. the russian side has actively requested visa exemption. in order to facilitate the issuing of visas, reciprocal agreements must first be concluded, as exemplified by the proposals now before us. the reports of the parliament's committees criticise the state of the rule of law, or indeed the lack of it, in russia. they express concern about the threat to free citizenship posed by visa refusal. they also criticise the mandatory registration procedure and point out the lack of implementation provisions in the readmission agreement and the human rights problems and so on. it seems that the time is not yet ripe for visa-free travel. as long as visas are required, they must be made easy and cheap for decent citizens. we must be careful not to politicize visas.
mr president, relations between the eu and russia have not made progress for a long time. the agreements under discussion are therefore important, even if they are rather modest in content. it is very regrettable that we have still not been able to negotiate a new agreement between the eu and russia. efforts to open negotiations must continue. however, the delay in negotiations on the new agreement should not be allowed to prevent the development of cooperation which is important to both parties. a new strategic partnership can and must be built within the framework of the current partnership agreement.
i have one brief question. the commission came up with its proposal on energy and climate change a few weeks ago. in that proposal the level of carbon emissions for cars was increased from 120g/km to 130g/km. does the presidency think that this helps or hinders the issue of emissions?
president-in-office, as a former civil servant, having taken many notes in council meetings, i know that those meetings are not necessarily the most exciting events in the world and, therefore, 28 000 viewers – hmm, i kind of understand! i should like to make a practical proposal and test you on it. instead of sitting in a circle in the council with the permanent representative next to you, why not sit in a hemicycle with no assistance whatsoever? perhaps this would make the debate more interesting and you would get a few more hits on the internet site. what do you think?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the european investment bank, i am the permanent rapporteur on loans and guarantees for the european investment bank in the committee on budgets and i would like to make a few comments on that basis. we must bear in mind that the bank's primary task is to lend for projects in the member states of the european union. the union guarantees loans to third countries, which can be seen as part of the eu's external policy. to this end, the eu grants the investment bank a general mandate to guarantee loans to non-eu countries. countries benefiting from the eu guarantee receive loans at below-market rates. as regards the position expressed in the report on the small share of loans granted to latin american countries, i would draw attention to the fact that the primary task of the investment bank is to finance projects within the eu. in december, when it adopted a new mandate for guarantees for external loans, parliament also expressed its wish to play a part in setting the priorities for loans. parliament unanimously called for the legal basis of the mandate to be changed to better reflect the nature of development aid, while giving parliament a say in setting priorities. however, the council was not prepared to change the legal basis. the committee on budgets believes that parliament should therefore take the council to the court of justice. the committee's report focuses on support for the activities of smes. their activities are effectively supported by the european investment fund, whose share capital increase is currently being discussed by parliament. it is clear that parliament will support the proposal and that the share capital of the investment fund will be increased in the manner proposed by the commission. this means that smes will receive more money, which is one of the answers to the demands made in this report.
in writing. mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for this joint motion for a resolution. i think it's good, fair and right. the tibetan issue, which has been on the table for years, is a subject on which we must find constructive solutions. the motion for a resolution is based on the premise that a solution to the tibetan question, compatible with the right of self-determination of china and respectful of the tibetan people, should be found. a constructive and peaceful process is needed to recognise the rights of the tibetan people to their own culture and religion. as citizens of europe and the world, we must ensure that the fundamental rights of people can be realised in all parts of the world. in this respect, it is desirable that the cultural and religious rights of the people in tibet should not be restricted. it would be desirable to establish a meaningful dialogue between tibet and china, which would lead to a mutually satisfactory solution. mr president, i hope that in the future we will find practical solutions which also respect china's territorial integrity, but which at the same time meet the aspirations of the tibetan people. i do not know whether this is too much to hope for, but we must work for this kind of peaceful coexistence in the european union.
the author. mr president, the iraqi refugee problem is based on a situation which can only be predicted to become more widespread in the future in the context of various conflicts. the situation has reached the level of civil war. the christian minority in particular has been victimized, and many christians have been killed. the iraqi security forces have failed to protect christians, regardless of the government's position. turkey, jordan and lebanon, for example, have taken on a major responsibility for the temporary resettlement of refugees. in these countries, the un refugee agency has not been able to grant refugee status to iraqis who arrived during the current conflict, as the situation does not meet the criteria of the geneva convention. the current government in iraq does not persecute christians, but the problem is that groups within the country do and the government cannot control them. so international agreements do not grant refugee status to iraqi christians, but they are clearly in need of temporary protection. in order to protect asylum seekers, unhcr has also not issued a negative decision to them, as otherwise the host country could return them to iraq, which unhcr wants to avoid. it is therefore essential that the international community respond to the appeal of the refugee agency to mobilise additional international support. international help is needed to help the refugees so that neighbouring countries struggling with large numbers of refugees do not close their borders to iraqis. the recent news that the united states is taking in more refugees is a step in the right direction and is necessary because the united states has avoided responsibility in the past. we need more of this news. the eu countries owe their thanks to sweden. the situation for iraqi refugees is desperate. there's a shortage of everything - food, medicine, health care, fuel. i heard concrete examples of this when the human rights organisation i lead met a group of iraqi christian refugees in turkey last autumn. but the most essential thing in helping the iraqis is to implement comprehensive reforms to increase law and justice throughout iraq. the iraqi government must do all it can to bring to justice those responsible for crimes and human rights violations. this is essential for the end of the unrest and violence against minorities.
mr president, biotechnology offers enormous opportunities but also challenges for european agriculture. for this reason, such a report cannot be treated as a yes or no question, but must be approached in a thorough and unbiased manner. that is why i am in favour of returning it to committee so that we can get as much support for this report as possible in the plenary.
for the alde group mr president, last spring the british business magazine the economist declared that women's power was the most important engine of the world economy. we want to make the european economy more competitive and innovative. it is therefore not enough for women to enter the labour market in large numbers, but women must also be able to take up managerial positions in the public and private sectors, in order to benefit fully from their skills. research shows that companies with a high number of women in senior management positions are more profitable than those with a low number of women in senior management. a determined strategy for the empowerment of women would give a new impetus to the european economy and improve its position in competition with the united states and asian countries. this is the determination i expect and hope for from the eu. in western europe, women have long since surpassed men in educational attainment. however, academic achievements have not increased the number of women in leadership positions in society and business. the proportion of women on the boards of european companies is still in the single digits. the obstacles to the career advancement of educated women in europe are based on corporate culture, attitudes, prejudices and stereotypes rather than actual discrimination. there are also obstacles that can be reduced by political decisions. examples include reconciling work and family life and sharing the costs of parenting equally. i regret to say that the eu's actions in the field of equality have not been sufficient and are not convincing. there are many words, there are efforts, there is talk, but unfortunately there is still no implementation and no political will.
mr president, like all my colleagues before me, i too would like to thank our rapporteur mr klinz. all in all, we can be satisfied with the outcome of this directive. it supports a valuable aim: facilitating consolidation of the financial sector in europe. without fluid financial markets, other forms of market integration will fail. the financial world must show the way; it cannot be prevented from making decisions about investments and mergers by arbitrary restrictions, as has been the case until now. from now on, the rules for national authorities will have to be transparent and strictly prudential in nature, and i am hopeful that they will stick to the letter of what has been agreed. no more pseudo-prudential protectionism, please! the decision by the competent authority on approval or rejection of the action should be as swift and as expedient as possible. just as has now been agreed in the directive, we are in favour of very tight deadlines for decisions. furthermore, actions which target investment gains first and foremost, and which do not alter ownership structures, need not arouse the kind of national fears we are seeing in the market. consolidation in the financial sector should, as far as possible, be about market incentives and conditions, not political considerations. on the aggregation of holdings, let us also remain faithful to what has been agreed. if the decisions on holdings are made by independent investment entities, there is no need to aggregate holdings inside one group of companies. we have conglomerates in this market and we need to guarantee that independent actors can act freely. this also concerns the hedge funds mentioned by my colleagues.
mr president, the commission communication on the annual strategy for action contains some new openings, particularly in the fields of energy policy, immigration and administrative simplification. the commission's communication is somewhat fragmented. it is structured around four pillars: prosperity, solidarity, security and freedom, and europe as a strong international actor. this division is ill-suited both to the administrative structure and to the multiannual financial framework. the objective of activity-based budgeting and governance is to make governance transparent and clear, which is not supported by this type of communication. it is difficult for the reader to follow what the commission really intends to do in the current sectors. the allocation of both human and financial resources is difficult to ascertain. the commission seems to have confidence in the administration. it intends to create two more separate agencies in addition to the existing ones and to continue the european institute of technology. i think that the idea of adding bureaucracy should be approached with extreme caution. new administrative bodies cannot be set up unless they are absolutely necessary. the surprising feature is that the commission is setting up two new policy programmes under heading four, on climate change and energy efficiency. the cost of these would already exceed eur 20 million next year. it is astonishing that only two months after the new financial perspectives were launched, new expenditure is being proposed. from the budgetary point of view, it is regrettable that the commission intends to finance new expenditure by postponing the financing of existing programmes. parliament should carefully assess this procedure, which may lead to the underestimation of its own priorities. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
mr president, i should like to start by welcoming the commissioner and congratulating her on her choice of christian leffler as the new head of her private office. he is a good, old friend and was a colleague of mine when i used to have a real job. thank you for the annual policy paper, commissioner. i think it is an excellent document. i think we should basically have four priorities. because you are in charge of communication, i could perhaps say that there are four things that the commission should communicate and sell. the first one is, of course, climate change and energy. the european union has lacked a true project ever since the end of the cold war. i think that we are starting to find one, and this commission has done an excellent job on that. congratulations on what you did in the european council. the second thing you have to sell – and here i would like you to be a little firmer, so i underline what mr duff said earlier – is the constitution. stick firm on that, because it is your job to defend the treaties and to defend the interests of the european union as a whole. everyone knows that it is in our interests to get that constitution through in one form or another, most certainly not in the form of a ‘mini-treaty’. thirdly, as regards defending and selling, there is a lot of talk about protectionism nowadays in the european union. you need to sell the single market better. the whole system is based on four freedoms: the free movement of goods, services, people and money. when you combine that with a sound consumer policy, as mrs kuneva is doing right now, i think you can prove that the single market has been a success story. the fourth and final element that i personally think you are doing a good job on, but in respect of which the member states are found to be a little lacking, is enlargement. it is, after all, the most successful policy the european union has ever had. i know we have to administer it. i know we have to go a little slower. but keep at it and keep on selling it better. so my four priorities, which i find in your paper as well, are climate change, the constitution, the single market and enlargement.
for the alde group mr president, i welcome this initiative on families and childcare. the most valuable asset for our future is our children and young people. we must make decisions so that they can live a full and secure life, and these decisions must be made now. i have been privileged in that, when my children were young, i spent five years as a stay-at-home father in finland. in our society, there was the option of staying home, as there is today. i can say in retrospect that the five years i spent as a stay-at-home father to my two sons were without a doubt the best years of my life. i feel that when we talk about parenting today, there is still a traditional attempt to place the responsibility solely on mothers and women. parenting means that fathers must also take full responsibility for their children. it is also necessary to ensure that work and family life can be reconciled, so that families can choose which parent to take up a job if both cannot. on the other hand, forms of day care must be developed so that children are provided with good and high-quality care if both parents are gainfully employed. the importance of childhood is important, as research shows. the first four or five years of a child's life have a bearing on the rest of their life. the decisions made there, the care, love, and security received there, are reflected throughout a person's life. i therefore support these objectives, which seek to promote the status of families and children. i hope that these objectives will become concrete and not just be goals.
mr president, i have three points. one: i think the paper provided by the commissioner is a breath of fresh air. there is no false dichotomy between consumer policy on the one hand and the single market on the other and i think this is the first paper that brings it out fairly clearly. second, i really appreciate that the commission is reinforcing the economic dimension of consumer policy because that has not been done previously and i think this is a very welcome step. the third point i have is about communication. i admit it. i will come out of the closet: i am a mega-shopper myself. i like shopping, but sometimes i do not do too well on the internet or something like that. so, my point to you is please communicate consumer policy better to the european citizens. people sitting around here do not know that the eu actually gives you a lot of rights when it comes to consumer policy. my question is, what are the priorities of the group of commissioners dealing with competition and consumer policy? what issues could that group deal with?
mr president, first i would like to thank the commissioner for her excellent approach to the problem. i would like to hear more about the impact assessment and analyses you have carried out, commissioner. what is really the problem when it comes to consumer confidence? can we increase consumer confidence with maximum harmonisation? or is it a chicken and egg problem, with perhaps no real demand for cross-border trade? which comes first? my second point concerns unfair commercial promotions. as you mentioned, we did some very good work during the last parliamentary term, but, unfortunately, some unfair competition is actually protected by consumer protection rules in member states. i would like to ask how you can guarantee that a new approach to consumer law will not actually bring new obstacles, if the member states use it in the wrong manner.
i am also against the expansion of stansted airport, but that is because my wife’s family has been farming there for a hundred years and they are going to lose their farm because of the runway extension. but that is not my question. my question is a bit of a devil’s advocate. the question is the following: why did the commission, which originally discussed 120 grammes per kilometre, lift it up to 130 grammes per kilometre? could you tell us why that happened? you might not be the right commissioner to do it, but could you explain?
mr president, i shall use the time allotted to me to deal with the berlin declaration. first of all, we should celebrate 50 years of cooperation between the european states. the cooperation has been fruitful, but it has also been lacking. germany has prepared a special proclamation to celebrate the occasion. unfortunately, the preparation has been done behind closed doors. when the chairmen of our groups spoke this morning, they had to admit that they had not seen the text. preparation tells us a lot about the state of the union today, about transparency and about cooperation between the eu's own institutions. the declaration must have only one objective: it must clearly and concisely state why european cooperation is needed in this millennium, in other words, clearly define common european objectives.
mr president, we can be pleased that the european union has taken an important step towards protecting life on our planet and has consolidated its global leadership in combating climate change. now that we have agreed on the objective and the commitment, we must work towards achieving it. in order to meet future energy needs, it was necessary to commit to renewable energy sources. however, many renewable energy sources are still in the development phase and at the same time many energy-efficient practices are just waiting to be introduced. the member states now have a task to perform. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. biofuels and bioenergy also need to be developed, but at the same time it must be ensured that the environmental friendliness of these energy sources throughout their life cycle is also taken into account at the global level, as has been said here. this requires a certification system that guides the correct production methods. all in all, we have the opportunity to become leaders in energy technology as europeans. as commissioner verheugen has said, we need answers from industry to the question of what is possible. there is a lot that can be done.
madam president, i would like to thank the chairwoman of our committee, mrs berès, for her timely contribution. we started discussing the van den burg report in committee this week, and one of the key topics also in the post-fsap agenda is how to develop a good supervisory system for europe. it is very important for us to hear what the council and commission think about the future in this joint agenda. the financial services action plan is now more or less complete, so the focus is now on implementation and supervisory convergence. we think that even though national regulators have already been able to develop quite good practices, the work must go on, and beyond the lamfalussy committees. it is for example very positive that we now have colleges of supervisors handling big, multi-jurisdiction, pan-european cases, but sometimes these colleges lack authority; they do not have enough resources; they do not take enough majority decisions, for example, so it would be very good if we could consider more qualified majority voting in level 3 committees as well as in the colleges of supervisors. i would also like to point out that in mrs van den burg’s draft report we have promoted a new idea that, for top pan-european players, we should have a well-equipped european supervisory authority inside the system. we would like to create a european supervisory authority, but it should not be outside the scope of the commission’s current sphere of responsibility. it should be inside the system. i think this idea could also be considered by the commission. finally, it is also important to develop cooperation at global level. we know that the financial risks and prudential challenges are not only european, but also very much involve the big market players in america, and so on, so it is very good that the commission has taken this financial services dialogue with transatlantic partners seriously, but there needs to be continual further development.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, marie-hélène aubert, for her excellent report. organic production is one of the branches of agricultural production. its importance will be enhanced in the future as consumers pay more attention to the quality of food than to the price. organic production has the potential to improve the quality, taste and shelf life of products. this will create added value for farms and strengthen their profitability. organic farming is a difficult sector of agriculture. it requires a great deal of dedication to the care of the farm. even minor errors are difficult to correct because the possibilities of conventional production are not available. the eu's agricultural policy is generally characterised by complexity and bureaucracy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms. the farmer must be familiar with both eu and national legislation. the present legislative package will bring additional legislation. the aim is good in itself, in an attempt to safeguard consumer confidence, but if the regulations are excessive, the growth of organic farming may be slowed down and many farmers who have started to grow organically may give up. this would be a disaster for the entire industry. mr president, the agricultural and food industry is a huge european industry. it has room for different methods and trends. organic production can offer very attractive opportunities, especially in the most difficult areas. i hope that this regulation will also strengthen the food economy of our continent and its success in international competition.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the rapporteur, mr lamassoure, has made the right assessment: it is not time to give up the sovereign right of member states to tax. the current system of own resources has many shortcomings. the uk's reduction in membership fees is not justified. the special advantages granted to some other member states under its auspices at the 2005 summit are also not justified. the attention is rightly drawn to the so-called rotterdam phenomenon, the 25% collection fee for the recovery of overcompensating customs duties. the system cannot be reformed without taking account of the allocation of union expenditure and the reimbursement of member states' payments, in particular in the form of agricultural subsidies. the report swept agricultural co-financing under the carpet and it is there in the mid-term review of the financial framework for 2007-13. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the euro area.
mr president, the rapporteur, mr lamassoure, has produced a very good report on the eu's own resources system. thank you very much. the report calls for a clear, transparent and fair system of own resources. this is a well-founded request. the current system is complex and difficult to understand. the amount of own resources would be subject to a clear ceiling of 1.24% of gross national income. this is the best guarantee that the funds will not grow out of control. the eu's budgetary resources are limited to the ceiling, which is usually lowered by budgetary agreements. mr president, the main drawback of the present system is the reimbursement of the uk's membership fee. for example, my own small member state, which is more remote in terms of its natural environment and has a lower national income, has to pay this return of some eur 130 million a year, the cost of running a medium-sized university. i think that each member state should bear its own responsibility, because the benefits of the eu cannot be measured only in terms of revenue from the community budget but in terms of the many global effects of the single market and the political community.
, in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate alain lamassoure on his excellent report. he is a fine illustration of the shortcomings of the present system. in short, the current financial system is undemocratic. first, eu citizens do not understand how much and how the union is financed. secondly, national parliaments are mere rubber stamps in budgetary negotiations. once the governments have negotiated the financial framework, no national parliament can overturn it. thirdly, the role of the directly elected european parliament in budgetary negotiations is at least peculiar. the european parliament is the only parliament in the world that decides on expenditure but not revenue. as we know, the eu's resources are collected through levies on agriculture and sugar production, customs duties at external borders, value added tax and membership dues based on the gross domestic product of the member state. pay attention to the membership fees. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. each member state calculates what the union is paying it and what it is receiving. however, the total budget of the union is only 1% of the gross national income of the whole region. the eu thus becomes an accounting exercise. let us forget that the eu is a peace project. from this point of view, the eu is a low-cost project. we need a financial system that supports the eu's purpose. the lamassoure report should therefore be supported.
the rapporteur. mr president, the main idea with the 2008 budget is that we can make sure that 2008 is the year of the taxpayer, which means in practice that spending is largely at the level of 2007. the inflation rate must be brought back to the 2007 level. however, it should be noted in this respect that this cannot apply to buildings. the building policy must be kept separate from this, because we already have so many commitments on buildings that expenditure on this will certainly exceed this level, but that is the case in this proposal and in the report. however, it is also important for the reputation of parliament that we look after taxpayers' money and do not necessarily implement all the nice projects that have been put forward. the citizens cannot trust parliament if we spend money every year according to the 20% rule, but now in 2008, with no new enlargements, no new languages, we have a real chance to keep up with 2007 and show the taxpayers that we are really concerned about how much money is being spent here. i've got a few projects to add. as regards information policy, the citizens must be given a clear message of what is happening here, and this can perhaps best be done through visitor groups, which has been a priority for many years. that is certainly the best information policy, but the other issue is the small local media which cannot afford to pay for the travel to parliament itself. it should be brought more often to this house and we should find some way of inviting more local media here, because people read and listen to this small local media, and if we get positive stories there, the reputation of this parliament and the reputation of the eu as a whole will certainly improve. we must also make better use of the opportunity to legislate better, and this means that we must have good and adequate technical tools. there is a proposal in this section that, for example, we members should have a working connection to computers via mobile phones. it already exists in almost all national parliaments but not in the european parliament, and these matters should be settled by 2008 at the latest. the translation services speak to us every day, and this is of course largely about the equal treatment of all members, regardless of the language area they come from, and in this respect there is certainly a need for major and above all structural changes. however, these services must always be in good order. i would like to stress again, mr president, that we could keep to this level, and as far as buildings are concerned, although some people claim that 2008 is the last year in which money can be spent on them, the list is still very long. we have spoken of external agencies in london, stockholm, paris, we are starting the kad building project in luxembourg at the same time as another institution, the court of auditors, is starting a major building project there. we have here in brussels the finishing of new buildings, the purchase of land near here in the so-called banana building, the completion of the sport centre... this list could be continued for a long time, but this only shows that not all of them can be started or implemented in 2008 and that a list of priorities must be drawn up for buildings as well and then proceeded accordingly. i believe, however, that the spirit of preparation has been good and that we all want to tell the taxpayers that 2008 is specifically designated as the year of the taxpayer.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the european parliament's expenditure has increased very rapidly. the growth can be explained by the enlargement of the union and the resulting need for interpretation, translation and space. it is estimated that 60% of the costs are due to the requirement of multilingualism and a multi-site policy. until now, all expenditure has been financed by the 20% of the union's administrative expenditure, the availability of which has been informally agreed with the other budgetary authority, the council. the year 2008 is a kind of gap year in parliament's budget. the financing of the new premises is in order and no further expansion is in sight. the rapporteur's view that parliament should not invent new artificial expenditure and that it should not strive for a level of 20% is therefore justified. if this is done, there is a risk that the large groups in parliament will use their joint administrative expenditure to finance their own political objectives, which will become a financial burden on parliament after 2008.
mr president, fifty years after the signing of the treaty of rome, the eu's common foreign and security policy is only taking its first steps. in this area of intergovernmental cooperation, the influence of all eu actors is limited. at the moment, the attitude towards the us missile shield is a very important factor affecting the future of the eu and the european states. is the eu's response unanimous or is it that when secretary rice calls europe, she gets multiple responses? in this way, the eu allows the us to decide what is good for the eu and its member states. it would not even help to have a new constitution in force and a single foreign minister for the eu, because if there is no common will, there is no common policy. i would also like to raise another matter of this kind, mr president, namely illegal immigration and immigration policy. recently, expectations have been focused on closer eu cooperation to control borders and prevent illegal immigration. and no wonder, last summer, more people apparently died in the vicinity of the canary islands, illegal immigrants, in the atlantic ocean than the war in lebanon. so much needs to be done in the neighbourhood policy, in the neighbourhood policy, to increase and maintain the prosperity and security that the eu offers.
mr president, i wish to begin by saying that i totally disagree with mr whittaker about mifid and its consequences. i think mifid will be a revolution for trading in european markets and it will deliver very good results in europe. i think the commissioner agrees with me on this. overall, the payment services directive represents a very positive step in internal market harmonisation. like the commissioner, i believe that with the present agreement we have reached a balance between banks and other service providers on the one hand and consumers on the other. this was an instance in which the market was not delivering the best possible results and regulation was really needed. i would like to raise three brief points of substance. firstly, i very much agree with mrs bowles concerning capital regime. i would have favoured the ec’s original proposal on capital requirements. i think that it might not be enough of a level playing field, and new access-related barriers might appear especially for non-banks. i should have liked to see a more liberal competition regime in these aspects. secondly, on the question of credit granted, especially by credit card companies which are non-banks, there are possible disadvantages for these credit card companies, but we can look at these issues again in our review in three years’ time. thirdly, on the liability of payment service providers, i understand that there is an in-built flexibility in payment contracts on what, for example, the payer’s responsibility is in cases like mr radwan referred to, when the payment does not appear when it should. however, i think the strict definition on liability in the directive could be too rigid and inflexible and it should have been reformed. on the other hand, we can also go back to this in the review. finally, concerning the single reading process, i think parliament, the commission and the council interacted very well on this. however, we were put in a ‘take it or leave it’ situation and it would have been better if parliament had been able to put substantial amendments in place before the vote in plenary. however, all in all the single reading is a good step towards modernising our legislative processes, but it is not an end in itself. we have a good compromise on this directive, but if this is not the case, the single reading should not be used.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank both the presidency and, in particular, commissioner dalia grybauskaitė for the good cooperation, as well as the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr reimer böge, and all the political group coordinators and shadow rapporteurs. the commission's communication on the annual strategy for action opens the way to the preparation of the new budget. parliament's reply is parliament's first statement. firstly, the structure of the communication: the commission uses its own division of policy areas: prosperity, solidarity, security and freedom and strengthening europe's position in world politics. this distribution is difficult to follow because it is neither the structure of the multiannual financial framework nor the structure of the budget. for the sake of transparency, this division might be worth considering in the future. the commission will present its strategies, including climate change and energy measures. the lisbon strategy remains important, as do the management of migration flows and measures to strengthen the union as an international actor. however, they only cover some of the priorities of the parliament. the main objectives of parliament are to ensure the effective implementation of approved programmes, to cut red tape and to strengthen sound and efficient administration. the budget for this year included an agreement on the revision of the staff allocation. this screening operation is scheduled to be completed this month. parliament attaches great importance to this measure. action-based budgeting and governance is the key to better governance. it was developed after the santer commission resigned. parliament stressed the need to continue this trend. this is the best way to increase efficiency, reduce bureaucracy and clarify accountability. the annual reports of the directors-general are an important part of this administration. the administration was given a central role in this report, as the commission again proposed several separate agencies: two executive agencies and, in addition, one separate agency, the european institute of technology, for research. in addition, the funding of several agencies is to be increased at the expense of the operational appropriations. the separate agencies are problematic because they are financed under different headings and even programmes. their administrative expenditure is therefore not normally included under heading 5, which creates uncertainty. secondly, the staff of the agencies may not be reflected in the eu budget. this makes it difficult to keep track of the total number of eu staff. thirdly, the responsibilities of the agencies may be unclear. it must be clear to the citizens who is responsible for the decisions at any given time. the lack of face of decision-making is a major problem when assessing citizens' trust in the european union. fourthly, we must ask what benefit, if any, multi-level governance brings. the creation of new separate agencies and other administrative expenditure will therefore be assessed very carefully by parliament. for these reasons, parliament and the council have already agreed in the trilogue on a statement which draws attention to these issues and calls on the commission to take certain further steps. the second problem is the delay in the programmes already agreed. the commission has largely built its strategy for next year on the backlog of programmes already concluded. such frontloading and backloading is inappropriate, since the mff has only been in force for a few months. the programmes concluded shall be implemented in accordance with the plans. in addition, the marginal financing will further reduce parliament's resources for pilot projects and preparatory actions, in particular in titles 1a and 3. the risk is further increased by unused commitments, which can delay and jeopardise parliament's priorities. the danger is also that the number of unpaid commitments, the 'rails', will continue to grow, eating up the chances of achieving political objectives later. parliament's political objectives are related to the lisbon strategy, sustainable climate and energy policy, rapid implementation of structural and cohesion policies, good immigration management, a sound information policy and a commonly agreed foreign and security policy. we hope that the preliminary draft budget will provide a fruitful basis for the preparation of next year's budget.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the rapporteur, mr virrankoski, has set the objective of efficiency for next year's budget. it is difficult to measure the results, practically impossible. the basis for evaluating the results should be what would have happened if the eu had not used the budgetary resources for the purposes for which it uses them under the budgetary procedure, and we have no information about that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. in fact, this was already clear during the previous rapporteur-general's term, when parliament's strict performance requirements were relaxed as the budget was drawing closer to its final formulation. a good start to improving performance is that last year the commission missed the least amount of eu budget resources in years. the commission seems to have improved the implementation of the programmes. it is to be hoped that this is not just a temporary improvement in the last year of the previous financial framework. i wish the people who are preparing the results-oriented budget every success on behalf of our group. at the same time, i note that the final budget will be so small that the union will not make significant progress in the new priority area of energy policy defined at the march summit. instead, money is being spent on the old model of militarizing the union and on european propaganda in the name of information.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr wojciechowsk, for his excellent report. i realize that potatoes are a pretty tricky plant to grow. its annual yields vary quite a bit, and on the other hand, its price varies a lot too. the potato is also well adapted to the more difficult regions, including the northernmost part of the european union, and in this sense it is a very valuable plant. on many farms, it's a clear money crop. in my own country, for example, about one third of potato starch is produced domestically and two thirds is imported from other countries, because the forestry industry uses the lion's share of it. we would therefore like to see this non-food use taken into account more fully when the quota is being considered.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the court of auditors has not issued a favourable audit opinion on the union's accounts for ten years. one of the main reasons for this is probably that the commission is responsible for the distribution of funds, but the member states are responsible for monitoring the use of funds. the distributor does not control the use of the funds. some member states are more lax than others in their control of the funds they receive from the union. our group agrees with the report that in future the court of auditors will have to mention more and more by name those countries which have committed a deficiency in supervision. there is no justification for protecting greece or any other lazy watchdog from this disgrace. the parliament has taken the view that member states should declare the national management of the funds they receive from the union. some member states have issued one, the netherlands with the signature of the minister. most member states are opposed to the notification. secondly, the so-called martha andreasén case has not yet led the commission's accounting officer to sign the accounts as being legal. parliament rightly demands that he be given the legal authority to do so. our group is in favour of a discharge this year.
madam president, like a scout, i’m always prepared. i have three points to make. firstly, i think we seem to be forgetting a little why we are here. we talk about the report, which is about sound financial management. i think there are three reasons why we have these reports. the first is trust. we need the markets to trust us. secondly, it is democracy. we need the people to trust us. if we have sound financial management, others will follow. thirdly, it is about transparency, in other words, reducing scepticism. we are trying to improve financial control. so my first point is that there is a reason why we are doing this. i think the commission is doing a good job, contrary to what the previous speaker said. secondly – and this is a historic moment for me, because i am going to fundamentally agree with my compatriot from the left side of the house – mr seppänen is absolutely right, as are all those previous speakers who said that the fault lies not with the way the commission is dealing with the money, but with the way the member states are dealing with it. in other words, 80% of the funds are managed by member states. there is absolutely no financial responsibility. allow me to make a proposal. if we, in the next igc, open up a couple of institutional questions, why not do the same with regard to the member states as we do for the commission? why do we not put into the new treaties a legal obligation for the member states to be held accountable for the eu money that they spend? perhaps this is something that could give us a positive statement of assurance in the long run. thirdly and finally, i would like to agree with all of those who support mr fjellner’s amendments: mr newton dunn, mrs de lange, mr staes and mrs mastenbroek. we need two things in this report. one is an environmental impact assessment of the cost of the three seats and the other is the cost of the three seats of the european parliament.
mr president, the management of eu funds is always a difficult task. the effective implementation of the budget requires clear legislation and a clear allocation of responsibilities. both of those relationships have room for improvement. in addition, eu funds, as we know, are mainly managed by national authorities. the simplification of legislation does not seem to be progressing. as old regulations are scrapped, new ones are constantly being drafted. the attraction is that of precise micromanagement, and the decision-making is not afraid to be decentralized downwards. this has created and continues to create a growing need for continuous monitoring. at least at the legislative level, eu funds are the most tightly controlled. on the other hand, the amount of control does not necessarily improve its quality or its governance. often, too much control only slows down and paralyzes the activity. private companies, for example, are increasingly reluctant to participate in eu structural fund projects because of their high level of bureaucracy. it is therefore good that the court of auditors, among others, has begun to pay more attention to the quality of supervision than to the quantity. budgetary control requires a clearer allocation of responsibilities. the trustee shall be solely responsible. the system must not be too multi-staged. collective responsibility is not responsibility at all. financial control therefore goes hand in hand with simplification of legislation and clarification of the responsibilities of the office holder.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would ask that we change the word 'to check' to 'to improve'. in english, instead of revision, the word improvement.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – madam president, i wish to begin by offering my congratulations to mr costa and those members who have been involved in drafting the important report about liability of carriers. as the draftswoman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i should like to draw your attention to a few points. i strongly support the incorporation of the international maritime organization’s athens protocol of 2002 into community legislation. it is also vital that the legislation is mentioned in the eu maritime passenger liability regime, including inland waterways, in the event of accidents. i fully agree with our rapporteur that this greatly adds to passenger safety. as for the question of insurance, it is important to understand that passenger carriers must have the possibility to have insurance that covers the liabilities mentioned in the athens protocol. nevertheless, for small carriers operating in domestic waterways, attention should be given to the cyclical nature of their activities. it is not possible for those small companies to comply with the rules and they should apply only in cases where both parties have agreed that the carrier’s liability is strict. i should also like to emphasise the importance of mentioning the rare cases of terrorism. as the target of terrorism is usually a government or a political group and not a carrier, it is unreasonable for the carrier to be responsible for damages caused by such acts. i hope this will be made absolutely clear in any further negotiations on the athens protocol. finally, it is very important that this regulation equates as much as possible to the protocol and it should be implemented at the same time as the protocol in the european union.
mr president, we are discussing a very important subject today, namely maritime safety. the regulation presented here to tighten up standards is necessary to reduce the risk of accidents at sea. i would like to draw the commissioner's attention in particular to the conditions in the baltic sea. russia has significantly increased its oil transportation in the baltic sea in recent years. a single accident in this small baltic sea could be catastrophic for both the baltic sea's nature and its coastal states. it is therefore great that legislative proposals have been made, for example to ban the use of single-hull tankers for oil transport, and i thank the commissioner for that. the special conditions of the baltic sea, especially the ice conditions in winter, require special safety for vessels, but unfortunately not all flag states are sufficiently interested in this safety. it is our job to monitor these substandard vessels. i hope that the commissioner will engage in a dialogue with russia so that russia too will commit itself to these joint acts, so that we can reduce the risk of accidents in the baltic sea. i would also like to mention one important point relating to maritime safety, particularly in the baltic sea. many ships are dumping pilchards at sea and we need common, strong legislation to stop this. each oil spill is a natural disaster in its own right, and the baltic sea cannot tolerate this happening again and again. i think that this legislation which is now being drawn up is exactly what the citizens expect from us.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs kartika liotard, for her excellent work. humanity is currently living beyond its ecological resources on an ecological credit card. all of humanity is using 25 percent of natural resources above sustainable levels, which means we're eating our children's capital. according to the eea, europe's consumption of natural resources exceeded its own bio-capacity as early as the 1960s. if current trends continue, by 2050 humanity will be using twice the amount of natural resources at sustainable levels. the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is only part of the wider challenge of using natural resources more economically and intelligently. in order to bring the use of natural resources down to a sustainable level and at the same time enable developing countries to escape from poverty, rich countries - like ours - would have to increase the ratio between the wealth they produce and the consumption of natural resources by a factor of ten over a period of 50 years. this sounds like science fiction, but on an annual basis, it's only a five percent improvement year on year. the same has been achieved in improving the productivity of labour, so why not in improving the productivity of natural resources? this century must be the century in which we improve the productivity of natural resources, the ratio of well-being produced to the use of natural resources. as all colleagues have already pointed out, the strategy presented by the commission is far too loose, particularly because it lacks concrete objectives and timetables, although the sixth environmental action programme requires them. the knowledge base for their development exists. we need clear objectives and timetables, including sectoral action programmes, by next year. the slowest way to improve the productivity of natural resource use is to end environmentally harmful subsidies. we should do it now. the rapporteur, kartika liotard, said that 'quality is more important than quantity' could also be the motto for our use of natural resources.
mr president, commissioner dimas' example was a good one, because when bioenergy production is increased, it must be done on a sustainable basis and specifically on a global scale, but the problem with this strategy, for example, is that agriculture and forestry are not included. this is one of the last thematic strategies of the sixth environment action programme. it has already been stated here that the sixth environmental action programme sets quantitative and qualitative objectives for the european union's environmental policy and that these have not been included in the commission's proposals. the aim of ensuring that the use of natural resources and the associated impacts do not exceed the environmental capacity has also not been achieved in this resource strategy. the revision of this sixth environmental action programme was due to take place a year ago and it is very important that such an analytical revision of the programme be carried out now that we are well into the discussion of the thematic strategies. so i would like to ask commissioner dimas when the commission intends to review the sixth environment action programme?
mr president, it is good that on both sides of the atlantic there is recognition of the need to rebuild the bridges of cooperation. the common base of values and shared historical experience has hitherto been regarded as the basis of transatlantic relations. but it must be admitted that we cannot live on the recommendations and achievements of the past. during and after world war ii, we shared a common view of human rights. i think that today we have to ask ourselves what has happened to that common vision. the successful fight against terrorism requires that we do not sacrifice civil rights and fundamental freedoms, and i hope that this will also be discussed at the summit. the congressional elections last autumn brought new winds, and the idea that nancy pelosi should be invited to speak in parliament, which has been put forward here, i think is very welcome. it would strengthen the bridges of cooperation between the european parliament and the congress.
in writing. – i would like to congratulate my colleague, hannes swoboda, for his report on croatia’s progress on the way to eu membership. as usual, i have three points: firstly, enlargement is the most effective foreign policy of the eu. the incentive of eu-membership has helped eu neighbours develop their societies on the principles of respect of human rights, market economy, rule of law and effective administration. many of the former neighbours are now eu members. secondly, the report reminds us that nice does not provide an adequate basis for enlargement. we have to put our house in order. the responsibility lies with the union and not with the candidates. the constitutional treaty, whatever name it will be given, provides the necessary remedy. thirdly, remembering recent history i wholeheartedly hope that croatia’s successes are the first steps for membership for the whole region of the western balkans. this process is in the heart of eu, which itself started as a project of reconciliation. mr swoboda’s report clearly states that croatia has made considerable progress in terms of political and economic criteria. therefore, let us congratulate croatia.
for the alde group mr president, first of all i would also like to thank mr coveney for his very good cooperation. the dialogue has worked well and we can be quite satisfied with the outcome. i also agree with mr pinior that this is a very important document. the problem is that we may not realize the importance of human rights and fundamental rights until they are undermined and problems arise. one of the major problems facing parliament and the european union is that the eu does not dare to examine and look directly at the way human rights are functioning in the eu's own member states. are human rights and fundamental freedoms being implemented in the eu in the way we teach outsiders and in the way we expect third countries to do? so this report is good and deserving. it highlights many international shortcomings that need to be addressed and on which the eu has done a good job. but our work in the fight for human rights will only become hypocritical words if we do not have the courage to look in the mirror. one problem that came to light last year was the cooperation of european nations with u.s. intelligence. in the fight against terrorism, the us has been able to rely on the eu and individual member states more than we might like to admit. the common human rights instrument proposed by the commission is a good idea in my view. it would also make it possible to intervene at the right moment and in cooperation between the three institutions, which i think is something that really needs to be considered.
in writing. mr president, the observations made in the human rights report on the situation in turkey should now be supplemented by up-to-date news. i'm referring to last week's brutal murder in malatya. five young muslim students broke into the office of a small christian publishing house, bound three men by their hands and feet to chairs, tortured them, and eventually slit their throats. one of those murdered was a 46-year-old german father of three school-age children, two of whom were turkish. the german's body had over 160 stab wounds. unfortunately, what happened cannot be considered as a single act of violence, without a political dimension. the links with the propaganda that has been carried out and tolerated in the country are obvious: the murder was preceded by years of propaganda throughout turkey and especially in malaya against christians and especially missionaries. the propaganda was carried out by the media in all its forms, the authorities, the police, the governor, the imams and the teachers. the same propaganda is found in the media throughout the country, sometimes taking imaginary forms, such as "missionaries seeking to divide turkey and thereby gain access to its vast mineral resources". the events are the logical consequence of the nationalism and xenophobia that has been practiced in the media. it targets either kurds or jews or christians. it is interesting that at the same time that article 301 of the criminal code severely restricts freedom of speech, the same article on the defamation of turkishness encourages inappropriate writing and appears to be the fuel for these acts of violence. i would stress that i am not opposed to turkey's membership of the european union. but turkey must be able to convince europe that it wants to put an end to this propaganda, which has become part of everyday life and is now costing lives.
madam president, no, i cannot do that because there is not one. i just wanted to say that listening to mr tomczak proves exactly why we need a debate on homophobia in this house. those were the most homophobic statements i have heard in this house for a very long time, and i am truly saddened by them. (applause)
president-in-office, thank you very much indeed for your answer on how to bolster the frontex agency. you talked a lot about having more staff, or in other words having more money. if that is your thesis, how would you recommend that the staff complement of frontex be enlarged, and how much money should we put into the frontex budget?
mr president, the european union has combat troops, including german, finnish and dutch troops, on duty today. can you imagine a situation where combat troops are used to de-escalate the situation in darfur?
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mrs herranz garcía for her work as rapporteur. i think everyone in this house would agree that disabled women are often the most vulnerable individuals and the eu's values urge us to protect and to enhance the opportunities for disabled women. one way to approach this problem is by creating more education and labour market opportunities for women with disabilities, thereby granting them independence and alleviating the pressure on their carers. without adequate education it is very difficult to gain access to today’s labour market and to prosper. however, incorporating educational programmes for those with disabilities into our school systems and encouraging lifelong learning among women with disabilities would allow these women to support themselves and to maintain their independence. the member states should also encourage employers to hire disabled citizens by creating economic incentives to do so. the proposal in the motion for a resolution is a move in the right direction in that respect. no two people are alike and, even when we begin to categorise and label people, we must remember that every human being is individual and has unique needs. the eu member states must take this fact into account when considering legislation related to women with disabilities. women with disabilities constitute a very diverse group and all actions designed to support those women must take account of this diversity. finally, this is the european year of equal opportunities for all. yesterday we started a european truck tour to send this message to everyone in europe. i think that alleviating the plight of women with disabilities is a very important priority in the european year of equal opportunities for all.
mr president, i am strongly opposed to discrimination against homosexuals, but i hope that this house will one day produce a resolution on the subject, which does not need to be confused with the failed concept of homophobia. i've said this before and i want to say it again. if we are talking about a real problem here, a discrimination that really needs to be addressed, why on earth are we using the inappropriate word phobia in this context? phobias are classified as anxiety disorders, which are states of fear that are considered to be neurotic disorders. they need therapy, and they cannot be treated by political intervention, any more than claustrophobia, the fear of enclosures, or arachnophobia, the fear of spiders. i'm sorry if people start blaming their feelings or their phobias. it will only be another form of discrimination and manipulation. i also regret that this resolution has discriminated against poland by misrepresenting events and attitudes. i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr janowsky, for his excellent report. i would like to stress that regional policy is one of the key policy areas in europe, and housing policy, as part of regional policy, is of course also very important, as has been said here. and so do innovations, because they keep regions strong and vibrant. it is of course important to think about regional policy from the perspective that it is not just a matter for the european union or the national states, but above all for the well-being and happiness of people and citizens. the human person must always be at the heart of european policy. i think we must try to see these things as a whole and our aim must be to ensure that equal and sustainable opportunities for both housing and innovation are guaranteed throughout the european union. this requires us to take care of the sparsely populated areas, including the rural areas, so that they can participate in development, share in innovation and also enable people to live a good, balanced and happy life.
for the alde group. the environment is a top priority for the eu and drastic action is needed to achieve an environmentally sustainable future. the baltic sea is one of the seas that urgently needs tougher environmental regulations in order to recover and survive. i would therefore like to draw attention to some points in the commission's proposal for environmental quality standards that we must address. there is a conflict between the commission's proposals and the recommendations of international organisations such as the helsinki commission, for example on substances such as dehp. it is also contradictory that the commission should check that member states' emission reduction commitments are met by 2015 at the latest under the water framework directive, but that this has been changed to 2025 in the new proposal. the commission is also proposing a new article which would allow for so-called transition zones for exceeding the permitted level of environmentally hazardous substances. the commission does not provide any satisfactory explanation as to why these transitional zones should be established or propose any mechanism for how to achieve satisfactory water quality in these areas. this could lead to a serious erosion of our environmental legislation. we need a common, strict and clear regulatory framework to tackle the environmental toxins in our waters. it is something we cannot compromise or put off.
for the alde group mr president, one important aspect of the daphne programme is sexual violence and how to combat it. unfortunately, international trafficking in women is the third largest area of the world's shadow economy, after the drug and arms trade. it has been estimated that the turnover of the trafficking of women in europe alone is about eur 200 million. these are big numbers, and it affects a lot of people. the trafficking of women is modern day slavery, the slave trade. if the trade in women, which is the equivalent of slavery, is to be eradicated from europe, strong measures are needed. the study found that only one in four of the illegal immigrant prostitutes knew in advance that they were going to work as prostitutes. others have been lied to or forced into prostitution. i am glad that the commission and the european union have taken note of this, but there is still a lot of work to be done by both the european union and the member states. secondly, i would like to say a few words about domestic violence. i prefer to speak about domestic violence rather than violence against women, because unfortunately we women can be violent too, and studies show that women are sometimes even more violent than men, and when they become violent, there is no limit. it is good that domestic violence is talked about, because it improves the chances of women and men to seek treatment and report the perpetrator. today, it is often the case that the victim feels so ashamed, especially if the abuser has been close to her, that she is afraid to talk about it. but the more people talk about it, the more they dare to say that they have been the victims of violence.
mr president, i should like to make three points. the first is to thank mr caspary for doing an excellent job on this report and to congratulate him on continuing a good, free-trade, liberal line. my second point is that i am a supporter of free trade and multilateralism. however, i understand that in the current doha round we have to take some measures, which we do not necessarily like, on the line of bilateralism, but we have to stick to it. i should like to say to mr mandelson that it is very good that he is promoting us as a superpower in trade: over 20% of world trade is with us, 20% with the us. when we talk on trade people listen, and that is why it is very important to find a balance between free trade and protectionism. on the trade defence instrument itself, i am a bit iffy – for example, i like chinese tennis shoes! – and therefore i should like the commissioner to be careful about that and not push it too far. we do not want to become a european colbert state. my final point concerns globalisation, in particular the sales of globalisation. i am very saddened when i listen to the likes of jean-marie le pen – which i do not do very often. it seems as if globalisation has become the scapegoat for everything: everything that is bad is thanks to globalisation and everything that is good is thanks to the member state itself. this is the wrong way to approach things. i really do not want the european union to become a modern colbert, in other words, a mercantilist, which believes in its own exports but wants to prevent imports from elsewhere. that is not what we are about: our basic line is about the free movement of goods, services, people and money, and we need to promote that worldwide as well.
mr president, i should like to begin by saying that, after listening to this debate, i have felt that the overall picture is somewhat limited. the civilized citizen who follows this debate may think that very many members of the european parliament have a very limited knowledge of the history of the palestinian and israeli territories. how was the state of israel born? what was the united nations resolution back then? what was the basis of the distribution? what was the balfour declaration and so on. it is a shame for us parliamentarians if we do not first learn our homework and then speak with great emotion about things we do not necessarily know. it is therefore appropriate to pause and reflect on what is at stake in the area concerned and to take the overall picture rather than merely making a brief reference. we europeans must support democracy and not terrorism. our values are human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law. we have to hold on to them. if these are our values, we cannot recognize the so-called government of national unity, which is led by the terrorist organization hamas. we cannot give it credit, but we must, as europeans, uphold the values of democracy.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to distinguish between the russian-speaking population of estonia and russian politics. the russian-speaking estonians have the same civil and human rights as everyone else, but the problems and differences do not justify russian interference in estonian affairs, such as the demand for the resignation of the estonian government. no one believes that the moscow authorities would not have been able to prevent the harassment and violence against the estonian ambassador and embassy when, as the commissioner pointed out, it was opposition activists who were prevented from travelling to the demonstration in samara. the passaic has brought to light two different interpretations of history. it is true that the red army played a major role in liberating europe from nazism, but it is also true that after the war the same army became an army of occupation in estonia and many other countries. the events have revealed the lack of integration of the russian-speaking population into estonian society. it is the task of the estonian government and society - i know it is not always an easy task - to find a constructive way to solve these problems. while it is the duty of the police to maintain order, allegations of excessive police brutality must be investigated with impartiality and honesty. it seems that russia has a hard time understanding that estonia and the other baltic states are indeed sovereign states. we must show our solidarity with estonia. the member states of the european union shall assist estonia in identifying the origin of attacks on the websites of the estonian authorities. (applause) i would like to thank the
the riots in connection with the transfer of the bronze soldiers in tallinn came as a shock to all those who worked to integrate the russian-speaking population into estonian society and strengthen the cohesion between the population groups in estonia. estonia now needs all the support and solidarity of the eu and its member states to turn this setback into a harmonization of the relationship between the country's linguistic groups and a stabilization of society as a whole. estonia should not be vulnerable to undue pressure and interference from russia. this is important for the whole of the european union. estonia has proud traditions and all the conditions for success. as early as 1920, the russian-speaking minority was given a strong position in estonia's first constitution. an important step would now be to introduce an estonian tv channel in russian. today, too many russian-speaking estonians are at the mercy of one-sided information from russia.
in writing. – colleagues, i would like to thank my colleague and friend elmar brok for his excellent report on cfsp. i should especially like to emphasise three points. firstly, the report expresses the need for a common approach to foreign policy issues in times of globalisation. the report mentions climate change, dependency on energy, failing states and international terrorism, just to mention a few examples. secondly, the report underlines that the constitutional treaty provides the necessary institutional innovations, for example the double-hatted foreign minister, to coordinate mutual foreign policy more efficiently. thirdly, effective policy needs funds. the report sees ‘the total amount of eur 1740 billion allocated to the cfsp for the period from 2007 to 2013 as insufficient to achieve the ambitions of the union as a global actor’. i agree. i should therefore like to express my support for this report.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, first and foremost, although i normally support wholeheartedly commission initiatives on taxation, especially the common consolidated corporate tax base for companies, on this issue i also support mrs lulling and this excellent report. any report that deals with alcohol and taxation risks running into a lot of national sensitivities, and this has happened to this report. in 1992 – the last time this matter was debated in parliament – the european union looked very different. there were only 12 member states, with gdp per capita levels relatively close to one another. it was then presumed that imposing minimum rates of duty on alcohol would result in price convergence across the member states. we now know that, even if this had happened with the 12 old member states – which it did not – the changes in the structure of our union alone would impose the need for change. these rates are no longer up to date or beneficial for the european economy as a whole. i am glad that mrs lulling came to the radical conclusion of scrapping all the minimum rates on alcohol duties and proposes a code of conduct instead. this is beneficial in many ways: it eliminates the need for continuous inflation checks and gives member states the right to choose the level of duties appropriate for their economic and cultural conditions, which now vary greatly across the 27 member states. i understand the concern as to what the next consequence in the council might be. it is true that the member states might try to impose some new barriers, but we are not in favour of that. we would like to leave member states free to make their own stupid decisions, if that is what they want to do. therefore, i would like to stress that being in favour of mrs lulling’s report does not contradict some member states continuing to impose higher taxes on alcohol. this is the case, for example, in the nordic countries, like finland, where higher taxes are still used to finance, among other things, a wide number of health initiatives and campaigns. i support that policy in the nordic countries, because we are not ready for very low rates of alcohol taxes in europe. maybe we are a less gastronomic country in that way, but this does not contradict my view that the lulling report should be adopted tomorrow.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, i thank my colleagues and the commissioner for the good cooperation. my group supports the compromise now reached and will vote in favour of it shortly. this law has a direct effect and brings relief to the lives of tens, even hundreds of millions of people. we've been talking about online payments for years. the telecommunications package was negotiated with member niebler five years ago. a point on this subject was already added to it, since he was then acting as rapporteur for the framework law. but now prices are falling, which is good news for the consumer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's mobile phone market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. it is quite incredible that some operators call a situation in which the buyer does not receive price information on products and in which cartel-like price levels are maintained a competition. as a result, only a small percentage of travellers use telephones abroad. this in turn undermines the principle of free movement and makes it more difficult to achieve the lisbon objective of becoming a leading knowledge-based economy. the international dimension of everyday life is the travel industry. in addition, more telephone use and more business will be generated, so that it is also beneficial for companies. the functioning of the internal market is essential and must also affect mobile communications. the consumer's interests are now protected and justice has been served. i would like to ask the commission how and when it intends to make a proposal on data communications. of course, we must first evaluate the matter. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, this is a temporary but necessary measure. this is not a true market economy, but it did not work, and the telecom operators charge cartel-like prices. there is a clear flaw in the presentation as it is now accepted. it does not apply to text messaging or multimedia services. they can still be invoiced at any rate. i hope the carriers don't compensate for their lost profits by charging you for texting. in telecommunications, there is no point in talking about a functioning internal market as long as cross-border calls are clearly overpriced. the debate on the cents is important, but it is even more important to ensure that all consumers can easily benefit from fair prices and that compliance with the law is not left to the individual consumer.
in writing. one of the key issues in eu legislative work should be what matters need to be regulated at all and which means of regulation best contribute to the objective pursued. on the one hand, we must tackle the shortcomings and ensure that the regulation is sufficiently detailed to achieve the objective. on the other hand, regulation must be sufficiently flexible to promote competition and innovation and not to be used as a means of stalling development. the compromise reached on the proposed regulation to reduce roaming charges is, in my view, excellent eu legislation. first of all, it fixes the problem. telecommunications operators have for years regarded the prices for international calls as unreasonably high and have not pursued a policy of healthy competition in their pricing. despite the commission's encouragement, prices have not fallen much. in this case, therefore, the market was unable to correct its own errors and it had to do so by means of eu legislation. this is a concrete example of the benefits the eu brings to consumers, which should be remembered the next time you feel like blaming the eu: market failures and overcharging operators are addressed by means that directly and significantly reduce citizens' mobile phone bills when travelling abroad. secondly, the regulation is precisely the one that is correcting the market for the better, not by stifling it but by encouraging competition in the future. the regulation has not reduced the call ceiling to such an extent that there is no scope for competition below it. the low cap prices also encourage competition for other factors. the effects of the regulation are also far-reaching: once prices are brought down, it would be foolish to raise them after they have expired. the caps will still leave enough cover for operators to allow product development and innovation to continue in the market.
in writing. i do not want eu policies to be imposed on national labour market policies.
in writing. – innovation in europe is hampered by the absence of an adequate regime for protecting intellectual property rights. this much is clear. the report rightly stresses this point and calls for a number of improvements. however, i believe we should go further in identifying the flaws in the current system, and be more ambitious about our proposed solutions. the report proposes incorporating the european patent office, presently an intergovernmental body outside the eu, into community structures. this is a welcome idea, albeit one that will take years to bring about. bureaucracies do not merge easily, especially ones such as the epo which have developed a questionable profit-making and unaccountable orientation. it grants patents too easily from the point of view of achieving broad-based innovation across the economy, which too often only serves the interests of the patent holders. therefore, in anticipation of a community patent run, eventually, by an eu patent office, let me reiterate my support for the efforts of the commission to enact medium-term pragmatic solutions, e.g. the european patent litigation agreement. it is only a first step, but one that is badly needed for common rules to develop, and innovation to flourish.
i wish chancellor angela merkel every success in her efforts to find a common vision of the eu's constitutional treaty and the way the eu operates. it's a job that requires dreams, but it also requires realism. and if anyone can do this job, i believe it is angela merkel. i would hope that he would have taken and would take as a guideline what he himself said before starting work on the berlin declaration. the european parliament has been a key player in the debate on the future of the european union. that's what the constitution should be. i would have liked, however, to see transparency in the preparation of the report, both at member state and eu level. the eu does not deserve, cannot and should not have a constitution until it can be prepared openly, not behind the backs of the citizens. clarification and simplification of the treaties was one of the key objectives set for the treaty reform at the nice european council in 2000. we must now have the courage to admit that, as it stands, this text is not clear, but is a vague and confusing package, and even a careful reading of it does not provide sufficient clarity. mr president, it would also be interesting to know how many members of the european parliament or of national parliaments have read the full text of this treaty, these rules which describe how the eu operates, what its policies are, its powers and the way it takes decisions. i'm guessing that a fairly small percentage of the people in this room have read it.
mr president, the european parliament is now taking a position on a matter which is not within its competence - neither in substance nor in outcome - by means of its own-initiative report. the report is therefore a form of european propaganda for the constitution in a matter where the political elites are on a different side from the people. a european-wide poll shows that 75% of eu citizens would like a constitutional referendum in which the eleven old member states reject it. my own country finland has ratified a dead treaty, and it has been done against the will of the people. according to a new opinion poll conducted by our group in finland, finns oppose the future constitution throughout the country, in all age groups, in all professions and in all parties. the european parliament is standing up for the constitution, in contrast to the public opinion in many countries. it does not improve the legitimacy of the european parliament itself or the legitimacy of the constitution in the member states. you should have the courage to ask the people. the spirit of the game is clear in the secret list of 12 questions sent to the member states by the presidency: the terms are changed but the old content is retained. the new constitution is therefore a mere trick.
in writing. – when the european council meets on 21 to 22 june, eu heads of state will have quite a challenge ahead of them. in effect, they will need to hammer out a relatively conclusive compromise on the main points of contention regarding europe's institutional and constitutional future. they cannot afford to fail in this duty and subsequently start to backtrack on areas where the various national interests had to give ground. if they are successful and manage to agree on the main political sticking points, thereby paving the way for a relatively short intergovernmental conference to sort out the details, the moment could be the high point in the european council's existence thus far. it will have legitimised itself beyond any doubt and, in an instant, brushed off the inertia that has characterised top-level eu decision-making in recent years. i sincerely hope eu leaders rise up to this challenge. everyone knows what is necessary: retaining the large majority of the constitutional treaty and dealing with the concerns that led to the two failed referenda in 2005. it is time to mobilise this consensus with the appropriate political will.
in writing. – i would like to congratulate my colleagues mr barón crespo and mr brok for this report that takes into account three aspects i would like to highlight. firstly, the constitutional treaty has sailed on troubled waters. we have the friends of the constitution, namely the 18 who have ratified it and others for whom ratification would not be a problem. however, we also have friends in trouble: france and the netherlands. then we have sceptical friends, the uk, poland and the czech republic. therefore we need leadership. fortunately there is chancellor merkel, whom i wholeheartedly trust. secondly, we need to set up a clear mandate for the igc leading to a solution before the 2009 elections. the report addresses this. thirdly, we want the final treaty to capture the essential substance of the draft constitution. these are the institutional innovations, the legal personality, the charter of fundamental rights and the foreign service. i do not care so much about symbols. we need the constitutional treaty for the eu to be more democratic, more transparent and more efficient. therefore, i give my full support to this report.
in writing. mr president, in 1967 there was a six-day war, which had its winners. for the last 40 years, the loser has been human dignity. the humanitarian crisis in the middle east is the most tragic in recent history. the region is a vicious cycle of violence that has not yet been broken. generations of israelis and palestinians have lived in the midst of instability, violence and war. the solution to the middle east conflict has been sought in practice through crisis management. step by step, efforts have been made to achieve lasting peace. a ceasefire has been reached, which is about to break into another confrontation. it is difficult to believe that this road will be successful unless the parties understand that every act of violence destroys the future of a part of their own people. there is also a lack of understanding among the palestinian factions. there's a civil war in gaza. dozens of palestinians have been killed in clashes between fatah and hamas. the israeli military actions and human rights violations are reprehensible. every country must respect its international obligations and international law, and respect the inalienable dignity of the human person. but we cannot demand an immediate israeli withdrawal from the palestinian territories as long as the palestinian authorities do not recognize the legitimacy of the state of israel. the quartet, the united states, the un, the eu and russia, must of course continue to work towards a lasting peace. the role of parliament is to demonstrate european unity and support the commission and the council. one thing we cannot do is to transfer to the parties our will to achieve a lasting peace. we can encourage and push for it. but we cannot create an inner will.
mr president, the results of the first year of work of the un human rights council are under review. the expectations of the international community have not yet been met. the most tragic example is probably the resolution on the situation in darfur, the content of which was watered down in part by continuing compromises. the work has understandably been complicated by the fact that the procedures and practices are still being developed. our motion for a resolution does well to highlight the problems in the work of the human rights council. two questions in particular need to be considered. first, we must learn from history. the work of the predecessor of the present human rights council, the unchr, was marred by a lack of credibility when it was made up of countries that had committed flagrant human rights violations. the eu must therefore continue to press for an objective criterion for membership of the human rights council and for membership requirements to be sufficiently stringent. the concept of human rights covers a wide range of issues at different levels. certain fundamental human rights must be included in the membership agreements. i see a particular problem in countries where sharia courts are part of the legal system. the eu must fight to ensure that this human rights council does not become a club of abusers like its predecessors. the second question concerns the relationship between the general periodic review mechanism and the country-specific procedures. the eu must firmly maintain the separation of the work of the country experts from the upr and their genuine independence from governments. i am concerned that the member states could use the upr to exercise an indirect veto on the status of the country by not submitting their country reports. i understand the limitations on the eu's influence that the composition of the human rights council has brought. the african and asian countries together, with 29 seats, can already steer the council's work in a direction different from western human rights efforts. the eu must now show real leadership and will. the aim must be to break down regional blocs by means of negotiations. i would like to thank the german presidency for its exemplary firmness in calling for the abolition of the death penalty.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the coordinators, the shadow rapporteur and the other members of the various groups for the good cooperation and the willingness to find compromises. this was already apparent when we last voted on the budgetary guidelines in this house. on all important issues, there was a huge majority for these common issues. but i would like to begin by saying that i hope the president will convey his congratulations to the bureau of this parliament on the way this process is proceeding. i do not think that progress has been made in the desirable way, because what happened was that when the committee on budgets voted on the guidelines, the bureau of parliament voted at the same time on these preliminary estimates which are being discussed here today. it is easy to see from this that the bureau does not really care what is done in the committee on budgets, because it was already one step ahead. this process cannot continue in this way in the future, but we must certainly work more closely together and look at what both bodies are doing. as regards the content of the budget, the fundamental principle of the 2008 budget, which was already adopted in the context of the guidelines, is of the utmost importance: it should remain at the level of 2007. of course, this is added to the inflation rate and subtracted from the potential real estate projects, which will nevertheless be cheaper alternatives to renting in the long run. but now it seems that they're looking for different projects, different new spending streams. when the proposal talks about justified needs, it does not mean that it is enough for the project to be pleasant and comfortable, but that it must be absolutely necessary for the functioning of this house and from the point of view of the taxpayers. 2008 is the last year in which this parliament can show the taxpayers that we are really able to save and act responsibly when we make the budget. we can show that we do not start new projects unless they are absolutely necessary. now that there is no enlargement and no new languages, these projects should be kept to a minimum. but the most important thing is that we can show the taxpayers that this is a responsible institution. european citizens and european businesses are being forced to think carefully about where they spend their money and to count every cent and every euro. parliament must set an example. it can't work any other way. otherwise, credibility is lost and then it is much more difficult to get things through and there is much less confidence in parliament. so now is the time for us to develop confidence and act responsibly. one example of the kind of things we have to put in order and the kind of projects we can put money into if necessary is the amendment on translations. we must ensure that the translations reach the committees in good time, and i support this proposal by the pse. i hope it gets the widest possible support. i would like to speak about the information policy. i have proposed that members of parliament should have more opportunities to spend money so that we can invite a small local media outlet which does not have the resources to send journalists here. this is the way we can get as close as possible to the citizens. i know from experience that these journalists want to talk to members of parliament in particular and to make stories about how members of parliament think about these issues and why they vote in a certain way. that is why i have made this proposal, specifically to take account of the small local media, and i hope that there will be an even better agreement than there is at present between the groups.
mr president, the eu will focus on strengthening itself internally at the next summit. the new condensed agreement will hopefully improve the eu's decision-making capacity and enable the eu to focus on concrete key issues in the future. one of the most important is the fight against climate change and environmental issues. the eu, russia, norway and iceland agreed on a policy for the northern dimension at the helsinki summit last november. environmental issues in particular have proved to be effective in this respect. an example is the southwest wastewater treatment plant in st. petersburg. but these environmental issues cannot be left to chance and it is not the time to stop. on the contrary, it is the time to move forward rapidly. the effects of climate change are most dramatic in the north, where nature is very fragile and the livelihoods of indigenous peoples must be safeguarded. i therefore hope that, under german leadership, additional funding from the epcf will be secured, thereby giving climate change and environmental issues an even more important role in the policy and management of climate change in the northern dimension.
i voted in favour of the report by mrs claire gibault on the social status of artists. i would like to support the meritorious work of our member, the artist gibault, in this area, as he is concerned about the livelihood of european artists. we know that the livelihood of many artists today is based on various forms of temporary employment in different european countries. it is therefore quite right that europe should also ensure that artists have a good social status and social security and thus a pension in due course, because we in europe want to be a promoter of culture and civilization. we want to promote the european cultural area, because we know that it is the most important area in all european decision-making. if the cultural field is in good shape, then the common market and the foreign and security policy can also be built on it. i did indeed vote in favour of this report as a european, a finn and as a representative of the centre for the finnish cultural movement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr hokmark, for the fact that we are all in agreement on this. a society of growth and jobs is not possible without the thorough exploitation and development of broadband. it benefits, for example, smes, schools, public health and so on. on the other hand, the entertainment revolution is already underway, and technology is changing faster than legislation. but the knowledge economy cannot survive by following the circus. broadband is a prerequisite for a more equal information society. therefore, basic use should be free, such as social services, such as browsing your own patient records. and while search engines are powerful, we still have a lot of work to do to improve our services. information and communication technology is the fastest growing industrial sector in the union. yet many member states are not investing in this, but are letting the rest of the world get the better of us, and one has to wonder what decade, or perhaps what century, some places are living in. the nordic countries, for example, are an exception to this practice. ladies and gentlemen, we must take as a starting point the fact that all new buildings will have broadband. in addition, member states should advise their citizens on the possibilities offered by broadband, making the most of them. besides, we have to see the big new job ahead of us. we must create a new information democracy. one of the differences between the present system and the old one is that the voter is present at all times. i hope that this democracy will be more demanding and more productive.
the talman! you guys! there are two reasons why it is important to preserve the traditional definition of vodka, the historical regional aspect and the consumer aspect. in the nordic countries and in many of the new eu member states, we have a long history and tradition of vodka production, inspired by slavic culture, where alcohol is produced from potatoes and grain. champagne and cognac are strictly defined. the same rule must apply to vodka, spirits made from grain or potatoes. if no one knows what vodka is, we can't make informed choices. consumers have a right to expect vodka to be based on certain ingredients, just as we all expect wine to be made from grapes and gin to be made from juniper. if we agree that any alcohol made from, say, bananas or grapes gets hot vodka, then the consumer knows that ... (interrupted by the president)
mr president, i have two points and one surprise. the vodka belt has three arguments. the first is culture and tradition: we have made vodka out of potatoes and grain for over 500 years. the second is equal treatment: when we joined the union in 1995, we were told that vodka would have a tight definition, just like rum, whisky or grappa, or in line with some of the more traditional geographic definitions, for instance, of champagne and cognac. we therefore want equal treatment for vodka. we do not want it to be some kind of alcoholic waste basket. the third is consumption and production: we know what we are talking about – seven countries produce 70% of the vodka and consume 70% of the vodka. to mr stevenson, who told me that we are just driving the industry in our own country, i would point out that mr helmer is defending the same position as the labour party, so, mr stevenson, do not tell me that you are not driving some kind of grape-vodka industry here! tomorrow, as a defender of vodka, i will vote for mr schnellhardt’s overall compromise, but against his compromise on vodka, and for my own amendment on a tighter definition, or indeed for the liberal ones. i hope that all traditionalists will do the same. now we come to my surprise. i must admit that i am not a big fan of poland’s kaczyński brothers. however, they have done a wonderful job in this vodka debate. they have defended vodka heroically and i hope that this little token of appreciation i am going to send them – a bottle of vodka – will make them soften their position on the constitution!
member of the commission. madam president, let me conclude by thanking once again the rapporteur who has done a difficult job but has managed to put on the table a compromise which, if i have understood everything that has been said in this debate, can be widely accepted. let me come back to one of the issues raised, although i agree that this has somewhat overshadowed the very important elements in this piece of legislation. as expected, the compromise text on vodka was mentioned several times. at the beginning i said that the commission had reservations. those concern the legal basis and not the content of the compromise text. from a technical point of view, the commission fully endorses the compromise because, in our opinion, it strikes the right balance between the traditional vodka producers and those who produce vodka from other raw materials. it is a fact that many producers have been producing vodka legally for many years from raw materials other than potatoes and cereals, and the commission cannot ignore the legitimate rights and expectations of those producers, as you will understand. on the other hand, we have also listened carefully to the arguments highlighting tradition and quality. the commission is not deaf to those arguments. i think that the compromise found strikes the right balance and, apart from some legal aspects, therefore has the commission's full support. having said that, the commission will continue to contribute constructively to the final adoption of this proposal, as soon as the underlying conditions are met.
, in writing. the debate on the regulation on spirits has culminated in a subject which the commission in its proposal ignored: equal treatment of vodka with other spirits. it is more accurate to say that we are talking about equal treatment of european cultures. the debate we are having today not only reminds us of the multicultural nature of europe, but also shows that there is still work to be done to achieve unity in respect of differences. the definition of vodka that is being debated is really just a technical revision of what is already known and well established: for centuries vodka has been made almost entirely from grain and potatoes. in fact, 90% of all vodka produced in the eu is made from these raw materials. the definition of the materials is therefore not only a matter of manufacturers' interests or artificial barriers to the market, but of tradition. the vodka-producing countries, which produce and consume 70% of vodka, know what they are talking about. the rapporteur, mr schnellhardt, has made a compromise which would allow the production of vodka from virtually any agricultural product, provided that it is mentioned briefly on the back label, and that is not enough. if a compromise is finally reached, it must be supported more strongly than the traditional method of production. the eu's common identity and the legislation that supports it must be built on mutual respect, recognising the historical facts. our current legislation on spirits dates from a time when vodka-producing countries were not members of the eu and therefore needs to be updated. in the negotiations for accession to the european union, finland, sweden and later countries such as poland, the definition of vodka was ignored and a promise was made to correct the situation in the near future. now is the time.
mr president, commissioner, the eu calls itself europe, but it has no geographical basis. after all, much of russia is also part of europe. russia is a neighbour of many eu member states and therefore a partner in many fields, not just energy. i would point out that the russian economy is more than just energy. only a third of last year's economic growth came from energy. the eu-russia partnership agreement is coming to an end. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the question must be asked, would not its acute trade problem be better solved by negotiating in an orderly manner than by preventing joint negotiations? poland is preventing the eu from speaking with one voice. as a representative of our neighbour russia, i would say that we can actually do things better bilaterally than by speaking with one voice.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, eva-britt svensson, who has done a great job in introducing into the commission's initiative, among other things, the fact that breaches of the ban are punishable by penalties and that exceptions to the ban were not accepted. he has managed to conduct the whole process diplomatically so that now, in plenary session, we have no choice but to accept the long-awaited ban more easily. the whole process has also been an excellent demonstration of how active citizenship can influence decisions and legislation at eu level. without the citizens' address and the active lobbying, the issue would hardly have become a legislative initiative. i hope that this example will inspire citizens of the union to take a more active part in eu decision-making.
mr president, i participated as a member of the acp-eu delegation in both joint assemblies in 2006. the meeting will play a key role in the implementation of the political dialogue provided for in article 8 of the cotonou agreement. the vienna and bridgetown meetings were largely fruitful and involved active dialogue, and i am particularly pleased with the strengthening of the parliamentary character. i was the co-author of the resolution on water management in developing countries adopted at the barbados meeting. the procedure whereby the eu and acp parliamentary representative jointly draft a resolution for the assembly of representatives is fruitful. the drafting procedure adds legitimacy to the decision-making process. i would like to stress the importance of monitoring these important resolutions, and the role of the standing committees is crucial. sufficient time must be allowed for follow-up to deepen the dialogue. the fundamental importance of good governance, the rule of law and democratic structures in society is crucial for the future of third countries. they are also at the heart of acp development expectations. i therefore strongly support the house's request that a share of the european development fund be used for concrete projects to support administrative reform. the training provided to parliamentarians is one example. the second problem is the limited resources of the members of many acp parliaments, the limited capacity to respond to the ambitions of strong governments. the report lacks one essential point, namely the need to respond to the unsustainable situation in zimbabwe. the country's human rights record is the darkest in africa, and the mugabe government is driving the country deeper and deeper into despair. it will also try to block the country's status at the acp-eu meeting in wiesbaden next week. this effort must be absolutely prevented and a proper debate must be held.
i would like to ask three direct questions. the first is a purely technical issue: is the accession treaty clause for the swedish accession treaty completely identical to those of the 12 member states which joined after 2004? secondly, i understand that mrs budreikaitė is not as much interested in the euro as she is in the former interpretations of the accession treaties. if there is no deadline for implementing something in primary legislation, is it possible to postpone it forever? thirdly, do you think that the referendum is relevant to the debate?
mr president, this regulation is part of the whole of the community strategy on mercury. the eu's environmental legislation has been modernised in line with the strategy during our parliamentary term. i am pleased that we are now at the stage where we are reviewing our approach to mercury exports, given that the eu is the world's largest exporter of the substance. the toxicity of mercury and its many compounds to humans and the environment is undeniable, and the costs to society of the public health and environmental impacts are far greater than anticipated. the prohibitions and storage criteria set out in the regulation also send a clear message to those outside the eu. we are responsible for these disadvantages. the key to environmental legislation is that the means chosen are not only environmentally efficient but also socially sustainable. environmental considerations favour the swift implementation of the mercury export ban, as mr papadimoulis rightly points out. but we cannot rush into other realities. the danger is that a solution adopted by one party will create a whole host of new problems for another. the ban on exports within the community should be implemented in a timetable which is in harmony with the international restrictive measures to be pursued. as it will take several years to reach an international agreement, it is justified to support the commission in the timetable for the export ban. according to this, the export of mercury would be prohibited as from 1 july 2011. this has been supported by almost all member states. the same applies to the proposal to ban mercury compounds. we can ask the commission to propose an extension of the scope once we have sufficient information on its far-reaching implications. the compulsive movement is now unnecessary, we will continue along the line we have chosen and solve one mercury problem area at a time.
mr president, the transfer of pensions from one country to another must be possible. the free movement of workers from one country to another requires that people receive their pensions without hassle, without paperwork and without an application procedure. i therefore support the removal of the problems associated with supplementary pensions and the free movement of labour. however, transferring supplementary pensions from one pension scheme to another is very laborious. this will add bureaucracy and costs. the future legislation of the european union should not provide for such a right to transfer supplementary pensions. there is also a simpler solution. in this case, each supplementary pension scheme must pay the employee separately the pensions accrued in that scheme. this is a simpler, better and cheaper solution for employees, pensioners and pension schemes themselves.
madam president, i am happy to see this report reach this stage for a couple of reasons. the proposed changes go in a very sensible direction. during the process, we were somewhat confused about the commission proposals, for example on the retroactive implementation of the rules on vesting periods and about the difference between public, private and supplementary pensions. thankfully, if we accept the proposed changes today, the outcome will be much better than the commission’s original proposal. we need to keep an eye on the bigger picture. if we make voluntary schemes too bureaucratic, and radically different from today’s alternatives, no one, especially not smes, will provide them. this will defeat the object of encouraging employers to expand the scope of voluntary schemes to more employees. it also means that the opportunity for companies to use voluntary schemes as attractive tools in recruiting employees and rewarding their loyalty will be lost. in addition, millions in investments will potentially be lost. the objective is to encourage as many companies as possible to opt for the right kind of supplementary schemes and thus help alleviate, inter alia, the democratic time-bomb implications for publicly funded social security schemes. this can also be encouraged by leaving it up to member states to decide when and how they will develop portability, so that companies located within them do not find themselves facing big surprises. if we get this right, the eu can, without transgressing subsidiarity, make a genuine contribution to modernising social security in europe and reaching its lisbon goals.
mr president, mr secretary of state, this is a strange system with no democratic control. by democratic control i mean control by parliament, not by the european parliament or the national parliaments. this is a way of circumventing the provisions of the treaties, as you have just said. i now ask whether the new constitution, for which the presidency has prepared a proposal, will amend the treaties so that this funding can be provided from the eu budget without the athena system.
mr president, you said that there are no neighbourhood programmes with belarus because there have been no free elections. however, such a programme has been agreed with azerbaijan. do you think the elections in azerbaijan were free and fair and do you think it is logical that such a programme has been agreed with azerbaijan but not with belarus?
mr president, a report recently published by the council of europe states that new evidence has been found of secret cia detention centres on european soil in romania and poland. this is a serious blow to the eu, a community of values which emphasises human rights in its speech. it is a disgrace to the eu, one might say, to be silently accepting secret detention centres. the reason why the detention centers are in europe is because u.s. law doesn't allow them on u.s. soil. in europe, both the commission and the council have been quite silent and little action has been taken on the council of europe reports and there has been insufficient support for the member states in this matter. the second point i would like to raise is the eu summit at the end of the week. i would hope that it would lead to an agreement on making the charter of fundamental rights legally binding, so that the eu's decision-making bodies would also be brought to justice if human rights are not respected within the eu institution or by the eu authorities. i would also like to see human rights issues being dealt with in the eu in a more practical way, and not just in the spirit of the holidays. i agree with what sophia in 't veld here just said.
in writing. – i warmly welcome many elements in mr klich’s report. first, it explicitly mentions the passerelle clause, encouraging member states to improve their much-needed cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs. furthermore, it recalls the need for greater parliamentary oversight, as provided for in the constitution and hopefully the new institutional treaty to emerge by the end of the year. there is a need for greater coherence between the union’s internal security strategy, the afsj, and its external ones, the cfsp and esdp. the sources of instability are not only internal, but clearly also external. ultimately, it is only by strengthening the rule of law and human rights in its near-abroad that the union can succeed in securing an area of freedom, security and justice. the trafficking of women and children, weapons and drugs needs to be weeded out at the source. it is no use increasing internal controls inside the eu if the problems pile up on our borders. if the new eu external action service is properly created, it can provide a meaningful contribution to countering this challenge.
mr president, the commission has promised to present a white paper on sport on 10 july. sport and sports organisations across europe would like to define the special status of sport so precisely that its social significance is not threatened by the union's competition and internal market rules. the popular movement in sport must not be harmed by the fact that the narrow focus of top sport is, in many sports, driven by professional and business-like attitudes. volunteering has a long tradition, particularly in the nordic countries. the european model, where charities and the church often run sporting activities, works equally well and emphasises the same values. the commission and the european parliament are needed to legislate to ensure that sport can decide its own affairs. (applause) i would like to thank the
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, ownership unbundling is the antidote to all market diseases caused by market viruses and bacteria in the eu. our group does not have a strong belief in the self-correcting mechanisms of the market to cure diseases. strong regulators at national and eu level are also needed. the main disadvantage for consumers is the electricity pricing mechanism. in the case of electricity pricing on the stock exchange, all producers receive the same price, which is determined by the highest production cost. the pricing mechanism is a profit-making machine for low-cost electricity producers. when the commission seeks to harmonise the electricity market, it also harmonises the price of electricity. that would raise the price of electricity in countries where it is cheap. in this case, some consumers are forced to pay the electricity bills of other consumers. it's so wrong.
i thank you, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for this excellent report. europe has no functioning energy market because most of the member states do not comply with the agreements. this is hurting industry, competitiveness and citizens. a sound internal market would facilitate market access for smaller companies, such as importers of renewable energy sources. a functioning market would also ensure adequate investment. the operational reliability of power plants and transmission networks would be improved. a functioning internal market for citizens means affordable prices and is important for the energy poor. it also creates security. how is it possible that, while one member state of the union is struggling with peak consumption, another has unused capacity? it's not a union. energy production must be separated from its distribution, i.e. unbundling. many of the old operators that control the network impose discriminatory conditions, for example, on the connection of new operators' power plants and on the use of network capacity. this will not change without european-wide regulation. transparency is essential, in particular for the functioning of markets. now, that doesn't work for many countries either. big companies play each other. we cannot live in a situation where some countries think they can conquer new markets while jealously protecting their own. even a good directive won't help. we demand a united voice with russia, but we do not speak with one voice on energy. the commission must therefore monitor and punish member states which unfairly circumvent the agreements.
madam president, the energy package the commissioner has put forward deals with three issues: security of supply, competition and environmental sustainability. i will focus on only one part: competition. if i have one thesis today, it is that, even in the energy market, we need free and undistorted competition. for those who need a translation: concurrence libre et non forcée. i have three points. on implementation and transposition, i hope that the commission can be even tougher. there is a lot of unfair price competition out there and extremely unfair take-overs have been referred to many times in this house, in other words, some kind of a state monopoly taking over from free and private competition of a smaller prey. there are many barriers to entry, so keep up those infringement procedures. i am not going to mention any particular companies, but there is one, the first letter of which is ‘e’ and the last is ‘f’, that you could have a close look at. secondly, on unbundling, two options were outlined: one is ownership unbundling and the other is an independent system operator. much like other speakers, i fully favour ownership unbundling: it is the only way we can go forward, because the current level is insufficient. i shall finish by giving you one example, which is my third point. i live in genval, just outside brussels. a few months ago, i received a letter from the local community stating: ‘wow, fantastic, now finally you can choose your energy supplier and this will lead to greater competition’ – as if they had done something about it! what they had basically done for decades was to try to protect the market and keep prices high. i am really glad that mr vidal-quadras has put forward an ambitious report and the commission is keeping a tough line on energy competition. good luck!
mr president, as my esteemed colleague mr vidal-quadras rightly points out in his report, there is no alternative to liberalising the energy market. a genuine internal energy market is essential to achieving the three objectives of the european energy sector: competition, sustainable development and security of supply. healthy competition in the market reduces costs for citizens and businesses and encourages energy efficiency and investment. as my colleague paasilinna has just said, we need to be transparent and follow the rules. at the same time, it also benefits other sectors, thus improving the competitiveness of the economy as a whole. in particular, it should be noted that the ets is only intended to operate in a competitive market. energy policy should always bear in mind the climate objective, the pursuit of a world with as few emissions as possible. the long-term energy self-sufficiency and operational security must also be a key issue, and a functioning internal market has a major role to play in this. but at the same time we must avoid the paradox which unfortunately already exists in some situations. on the one hand, an open market allows smaller companies, such as those investing in renewable energy sources, to enter the market. on the other hand, care must be taken not to support them in ways which disturb and obscure the formation of a genuine market. the significant size and differences in national forms of support for cross-border electricity flows distort the market. for example, feed-in tariffs as a support instrument are in some places quite problematic in this respect. clear and predictable electricity markets are a prerequisite for ensuring our competitiveness and therefore overlapping and cross-checking controls should be avoided.
in writing. – this past spring has been an appropriate time to discuss the future of financial services policy in the eu. groundbreaking changes are afoot, both on the regulatory side and in the markets’ own development. seldom has a week gone by without a significant development with direct impact on the functioning of european financial markets, and on how we, as legislators, should address them. the growing number of marriages between stock exchanges is probably the most visible. as banks and other trading venues are attracting larger volumes of trade, it is only normal that exchanges seek to pool their strengths. the upgrade and modernisation of our trading infrastructure will benefit investors, and spur more innovation in financial instruments. the big question now has to do with supervision. we should not approach this only from a worst-case-scenario viewpoint. it is true that there are legitimate concerns as regards the regulation of various private pools of capital. nor is it yet clear what happens if and when something goes wrong. but for now, let us work towards a convergence of practices in the level 3 committees. in the long-run, parliament signals it is willing to see something more unified on the european supervisory scene.
mr president, the commission's presentation on the future of labour law is an important opening, although it must be remembered that the reform of labour law is primarily a matter for the member states. i regret that this opening by the commission is very one-sided and i am particularly sorry that this book does not deal at all with the very large pay gaps between women and men which still exist in the member states of the eu. the commission is not interested in measures which could already in the 21st century bring about equal and equal treatment for women and men in different european countries. i would have expected the proposal to also consider ways of implementing the eight equality directives adopted by the eu which would guarantee that equal pay between men and women would be achieved. finally, i would like to say that unfortunately we cannot expect much from the eu in terms of promoting equality between women and men.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr willi piecyk, for the excellent cooperation which has been established between the committees. it is important for us to understand that a clean sea and healthy marine ecosystems are also the basis for economic exploitation of the seas. it is therefore important to integrate the environmental dimension into all decision-making on the sea. for example, short-sighted overfishing has led to the collapse of many fish stocks and is also a major cause of the decline in marine biodiversity. the recovery of fish stocks cannot be achieved without reducing the pollution, industrial chemicals and also agricultural fertilizers that pollute the sea. this is particularly important in sea areas such as the baltic sea. as the rapporteur has said, it is also important to reduce emissions from shipping, which is one of the main sources of emissions that pollute our air. climate change is also more than just sea level rise for the oceans, because it also means ocean acidification, which has dramatic effects on all marine ecosystems.
mr president, the seas are threatened by human activities both on land and at sea. the majority of the acidifying carbon dioxide that warms the ocean is produced on land, but an increasing proportion is produced by the growth of maritime traffic itself. we need to do something about both. maritime transport must be included in international climate agreements and emissions trading. the warming of the oceans caused by climate change will have unpredictable consequences for the entire planet's ecosystems. after all, more than 80 percent of the additional warming in the climate system is stored in the oceans. since 1961, the oceans have warmed to as much as 10,000 feet [3,000 m]. this is changing marine ecology and marine biodiversity. some species, such as corals, are threatened by extinction, and others, so-called migrant species, by overpopulation. the baltic sea is the most vulnerable sea area in the world. the threat posed by increased maritime traffic, such as oil transport, must be addressed in a preventive manner and ships in service must be kept as safe as possible. warning systems and prevention measures must be in place everywhere.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr barsi-patakis, for his work. however, on behalf of the committee on industry, i must say that i regret that the committee on transport has taken very little account of the proposals of the committee on industry. the traditional way of thinking is that the more traffic, the better it is for the economy and industry. however, the industry committee took into account that transport imposes a lot of costs on others that are not included in transport prices today. transport is the sector whose co2 emissions are growing faster than any other. for example, emissions from road transport have increased by more than 25% since 1990 and those from air transport by more than 50%. this will negate the reductions achieved in other sectors, such as industry and energy production. it is therefore time to introduce the polluter pays principle in transport too, and to include the cost of environmental damage in the price of transport modes. this is also necessary for fair competition between the different modes of transport. unfortunately, the committee on transport wanted to water down this principle by using environmental taxes in transport in the transport sector. however, transport must also take co2 emissions seriously. clear targets must be set for reducing emissions not only from vehicles but also from transport as a whole. part of this is also the reduction of traffic, especially road and air traffic. half of the daily car journeys in the european union are less than five kilometres. they occur mainly in cities. if one third of these short car journeys were replaced by walking, cycling or buses, the co2 emissions of the whole of europe would be reduced by several per cent. for example, the german reich would have a 4% reduction in emissions. furthermore, air pollution would be reduced where the greatest number of people live. according to the world health organization, more than 300,000 europeans die prematurely each year from air pollution, the main cause of which in cities is road traffic. business would also benefit from a reduction in pollution-related illnesses.
mr president, i would like to raise a very important point. i would ask members to support amendment no 1 which calls for the mandate of the intergovernmental conference to be extended to include the transfer of the seat of the european parliament from strasbourg to brussels. my own team is behind this decision. this is a small but very important matter. a single seat would strengthen the eu's legitimacy. a year ago, over a million people signed a petition for a seat, and the ioc is the place where this must be discussed and decided. parliament will decide today whether it wants to bring forward the single seat debate or whether it wants to continue as before. if we support one seat, we vote for amendment no 1.
mr president, i should like to say to mr giertych that i have heard a lot of crap spoken in this house, but that was probably the biggest piece of crap i have ever heard. i would like to inject a little positivism into this house. it sounds as if we are at some kind of a funeral with the new treaty. as a matter of fact, i do not think we are we are entering a new phase. i should like to make three points. firstly, i fully trust the portuguese presidency. i remember doing the pre-nice treaty with the portuguese presidency, with mr da costa and mr lourtie. they always do a fantastic job. however, i should like to give them one piece of advice: be a little careful with the council secretariat, because the devil lies in the detail and jean-claude piris is very good with detail. my second point is that i think politics and economics go hand in hand. we have heard today and very often in this house that we want only an economic union or we want only a political union. i belong to the category of people who thinks that we need both: we need free and undistorted competition and we also need a political union, and this treaty really gives us both. i am not too worried about the opt-outs, because history shows us that any time there has been an opt-out, at the end of the day wisdom wins and people join in. my final point is that we should look on the bright side. we have to turn the page. we have a treaty or a draft treaty on the table. be positive: use the legal personality that we have, use the qualified majority voting that we have, use the codecision that we have, use the charter, use the president, use the foreign minister. all i am saying today is that this is a new beginning, we have a fantastic treaty, let us live with it and move on. (applause from the right)
mr president, it is clear that the union's decisionmaking process needs to be clarified. but this does not necessarily mean that the union is moving towards federalism and centralisation. i voted in favour of maintaining power primarily in the member states and that the union should only exercise the power which the independent member states are willing to cede to it. as for this vote on whether parliament should be involved in the committee on budgets, i think that is not on the agenda of the committee on budgets. but if we do not do that and if we end up in one place, which would be a sensible solution, i think strasbourg is the best place, because strasbourg is a real european capital. but i don't think that's realism, you know?
in writing. – the question of the future of kosovo is part of the aftermath of the horrible wars in the balkans. we are talking about an area in the heart of europe. delaying the question is not an option. quoting president ahtisaari, who conducted 14 months of negotiations between the serbs and kosovars, ‘a solution will not only be in the interest of the people in kosovo, but also of vital importance for the regional peace and stability’. it is hard to disagree. last march he concluded that there was no ground for agreement between the parties. later he proposed independence for kosovo. the plan has wide international backing. it is time to look ahead not, of course, forgetting the rights of the serb minority in kosovo. slovenia was the first of the former yugoslav states to join the eu. macedonia is a candidate. the rest are queuing. hopefully all will end up as members and the past borderlines will loose their significance. sometimes borders have to be first drawn in order to erase them. this seems to be the case in kosovo. according to commissioner rehn the commission supports president ahtisaari’s plan. i think that we should too.
mr president, last year, during the finnish presidency, we reached a significant compromise on the development cooperation financial instrument, which will enable the community to continue to meet its aid commitments and guarantee uninterrupted external financing. the dci regulation takes into account the multidimensional nature of poverty. it is therefore a promising starting point for development cooperation and poverty reduction. achieving the millennium development goals requires precision weapons. the regulation, as the first act, confirms the definition of development cooperation policy as set out by the oecd development assistance committee. this is essential to ensure that the development cooperation budget is not used to pursue other policy objectives. unfortunately, the practice has not been in line with the content of the regulation. in its drafting of country strategy papers, the commission has repeatedly exceeded its executive powers and failed to take into account the objectives of the dci. in its resolutions parliament has already repeatedly pointed out that the main objective of the draft strategy papers has not been the eradication of poverty. they have thus not met the requirements for official development assistance as defined by the oecd development assistance committee. the commission cannot in future ignore the core content of the dci and the core of oecd development policy. according to the regulation, funding can only constitute budgetary support if the management of public expenditure by the state is sufficiently transparent. the eligibility criteria shall be strictly applied. support for parliamentary scrutiny in the partner countries is also crucial. the weakness of supervision in third countries is largely responsible for the inability of representative democracy to respond to the wishes of strong governments. i am also a little disappointed that the commission has not been very cooperative on its own initiative. the commission should bear in mind that the european parliament has a necessary role in the implementation of the dci.
mr president, i appreciated the fact that the resolution we voted on brought up the responsibility to protect. it is not always a question of military intervention, but it is clear that the un has this obligation. without that, the organization will shrink into a club of actors and abusers. unfortunately, there are signs of the un's incompetence. the human tragedy of the darfur crisis is a new embarrassment for the international community. why is the un more sensitive to the problems of the middle east than to those of africa? the crisis is partly caused by ethnic marginalisation and the key to a political solution is to involve all parties in the peace negotiations. secondly, the background is underdevelopment and environmental catastrophe. this crisis is the first war on climate change. a humanitarian solution is therefore also necessary. it is worthwhile that the eu wants to see its responsibility in solving darfur and other african problems. i wish someday we could say the same about the united states. some might say that europe is guilty of history. maybe, but it doesn't kill people. silence and indifference are deadly.
instead of the author. the commission has already done so. i'm reading the speech by tobias plowman. the debate on aid to the iraqi refugees is unfortunately not taking place until today. i am deeply sorry for this. why did the liberal, national right and conservative groups remove the subject from the agenda of the last plenary session? instead, ideological debates about cuba were held here. the situation in iraq is dramatic. since the invasion by the united states and the so-called coalition of the willing, over 600,000 people have been killed. over two million iraqis have fled abroad. the european union has also been involved in the process of negotiating the agreement on the settlement of the conflict in the middle east. but the death toll of the us military is also rising daily, to a total of 3,600 now. unfortunately, eu member states, through their participation in and support for the war - especially germany - also bear a high degree of responsibility for the situation in iraq. now we really need to help the refugees. this cannot be the responsibility of the neighbouring countries alone. the eu must make a financial contribution. deportations to iraq must be stopped immediately. the troops of the united states and the so-called coalition of the willing must be withdrawn. the support of the war by eu member states must be ended. the end of the illegal war and occupation of iraq is necessary.
for the ppe-de group mr president, the situation of iraqi refugees remains difficult, with one exception. the recommendation of the un high commissioner for refugees to grant refugee status to asylum seekers from southern and central iraq under the 1951 convention was a welcome solution. as well as providing a complementary form of protection when refugee status is not granted. i would like to draw attention to two points in particular from inside iraq's borders. first, the situation of religious minorities is becoming more intolerable. assyrians, armenians, orthodox and other christian groups, as well as mandeans and jews, are facing blatant discrimination in the labour market, among other areas. in some areas, the authorities are totally incapable of protecting minorities from the violence of muslim militants. religious freedom has thus been effectively curtailed. secondly, i find the threats made by the iraqi authorities to freeze supplies from iranian refugees incomprehensible. these members of the opposition enjoy international refugee status and an inalienable right to shelter.
the author. mr president, commissioner, i would like to say to the commissioner for science that, yes, science will certainly be done in moldova and transnistria, but first we must have peace, bread and human rights. in addition to the balkans, moldova and its part of transnistria are among europe's political hotspots. a peaceful solution to stabilize the situation has not been found, despite the help of many outside forces, many international declarations. we draw particular attention to the conclusions of the meetings of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and to the judgments of the european court of human rights in the case of ilascu and others v. moldova and the russian federation. it is right that here in the european parliament attention is once again drawn to the need for stability in the region and for the safety of people and, therefore, the fight against poverty. poverty leads to human rights violations and, in the case of moldova, to large-scale trafficking in human beings. the declaration of our group calls on the eu council and commission to intensify efforts to find a solution to the transnistrian conflict acceptable to all parties and places responsibility on the various parties to avoid the escalation of the problems. this poorest region of europe must be rebuilt.
in writing. the situation in transnistria is a serious reminder that human rights are being flagrantly and blatantly violated also within europe. the indifference of the separatist and authoritarian transnistrian regime to the principles of the rule of law and democracy has continued for 15 years. the human rights violations in transnistria also demonstrate that the development of civil rights is also being stalled as a result of the protracted state crisis. the european union is also committed to the principle of non-refoulement, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. the situation is now deadlocked: the crisis is frozen. human rights are trampled on, independent media and ngos are harassed. the right to territorial integrity and fundamental rights of the entire moldovan people. moldova is committed to the union. it is clear that the transnistrian node must be opened before the door to integration is finally opened.
the author. mr president, commissioner, i was president of the vietnam friendship association in my own country in the 1980s. i see the rapid economic development that has taken place in this country, especially in the last ten years. it's being told by a new generation who have no personal experience of the us aggression in vietnam. as a long-standing friend of vietnam, i would like to draw attention, as do the other political groups in the european parliament, to the need to respect human rights and freedom of association, expression and religion in the spirit of the united nations declarations and conventions. the resolution of our group calls for the release of the buddhist leaders thich huyen quang and thich quang don, who are in our view being unjustly imprisoned. we believe that vietnam should liberalize its minority policy. the eu should also act in this respect when promoting cooperation with vietnam. although oil has been found in vietnam, it is not a western oil and gas reserve and therefore political rights and human rights can be highlighted, unlike, for example, cooperation with azerbaijan and kazakhstan.
the author. mr president, the situation in vietnam requires the attention of the international community. the eu must send a clear message: discrimination against religious communities such as the united buddhist church of vietnam, the protestant home church and dissenting groups must end. members of these peaceful religious communities have suffered deprivation of liberty and house arrest. that was a snippet from a speech i gave in this hall almost four years ago on the human rights situation in vietnam. i am sad to say that i could make the same speech now, as the situation with regard to religious freedom has not improved. this may raise questions about the meaning of these discussions, but there is no alternative. we must continue to press for and do everything we can to get international attention. and there is hope, because there have been minor reforms of the rule of law in vietnam, at least at the legislative level. these are things that deserve recognition and i hope that in four years' time we will be able to say something more.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to make three points. the first is a word of thanks to mr toubon and the way in which he has directed the whole process. i think everyone on the right and the left of the house has actually been quite pleased with the way in which things have gone. i think that the report is very good and balanced. my second point is about selling the internal market. i think that this paper tries to sell the internal market and we really need to do it. mr goebbels, you referred earlier to the so-called 'nordic model'. well, let me tell you that the nordic model yes, on the one hand is about social welfare, but on the other hand it is also about economic openness. these are the countries that are completely abiding by the rules of the single market – free movement of goods, free movement of services - with polish plumbers! - free movement of money and free movement of people, with people coming in from other countries to work, so these are also open economies at the same time. my argument is that we should not put down the single market because it is probably the best thing that we in the european union have ever done. finally, i want to give you an example of how the single market does not work. this is a real life example. a finnish finnair captain bought a car in italy, i shall not mention what kind of car, at the beginning of the summer. half an hour after he drove out of the shop he was stopped by the police. they took away his interim licence plates which were legal, bought in germany, and they confiscated the car and they will not give it back until they have gone through a legal process in december. it could very well be that he loses his car, and here we are talking about an internal market where there should be full and free movement of goods. so my point is that this report is great and it shows that we really have to keep on improving and working with the single market with a nice balance of free competition and social welfare.
mr president, the harm caused by globalisation must not be fought with slogans but with practical action. the protection of national markets paralyses the dynamism of our continent and thus jeopardises the economic growth on which social europe is based. the report rightly stresses the importance of completing the opening up of the energy and communications sectors to competition, since advanced and open networks are ultimately in the interest of consumers and a guarantee of growth. to accelerate this development, effective regulatory mechanisms and supervision are also needed. one mechanism would be contained in the so-called principle of cross-border customer responsibility. in this context, the contractor would be responsible for ensuring that the work is transparent and that the subcontractors fulfil their obligations. this union and this parliament continue to have too ideological an attitude towards different forms of energy. in practice, the harmful effects of climate change are countered by reducing emissions. contrary to what mr bulfon, for example, has just said, it is unrealistic to expect that real, effective results will be achieved without nuclear power being part of the solution. reducing the use of fossil fuels must be our first priority.
in writing. – the single market is still the core achievement of the eu. however, it is far from complete. there are deficiencies with respect to all four freedoms. also, we are seeing crumbling stakeholder confidence in the achievements of the single market. these are largely taken for granted. as regards movement of goods, 25% are still subject to various national technical barriers. hopefully the commission’s policy package from january 2007 will swiftly be translated in targeted measures for resolving the remaining obstacles. as regards people, uncertainty persists over some basic principles, notably in the transferability of social rights. i am happy that this political minefield is being gradually negotiated in the field of, for instance, pensions and access to cross-border healthcare. as for capital and services, big changes are afoot. the status quo, for example as regards the lack of a common corporate tax base, distorts investment decisions in the single market and disadvantages smes. even as the eu rolls up its sleeves for future challenges by way of the reform treaty, a political impetus for completing the single market is needed. this should aim to remove ambiguities in the business environment, clarify the applicable regulatory regime and seek to reduce administrative burdens.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, the european parliament has now received the council's draft budget for the next financial year. i should like to begin by thanking the portuguese presidency for its good and open cooperation. the work with the european parliament, and in particular with its committee on budgets, has been good. the conversation has been seamless. although the council's proposal gives rise to some reservations, the presidency's action gives rise to the expectation that we will reach a good outcome. the council's budgetary position is very tight. compared with the preliminary draft budget, the commitment appropriations have been reduced by eur 717 million, representing a margin of eur 3.9 billion compared with the multiannual financial framework. the budget for payments was cut even further, by eur 2.1 billion, leaving eur 10.3 billion below the financial framework, or just 0.95% of the eu's gross national income. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the period 2000 to 2006 is a very good one. it is regrettable that the cuts are particularly severe for heading 1a 'competitiveness for growth and employment', with a reduction of over eur 500 million in payment appropriations, and for heading 1b 'cohesion for growth and employment', with a reduction of eur 498 million. both these headings concern a key priority of the european union, the lisbon strategy, which has been weakened by more than a billion euros. title 1 also covers the main budgetary problems. last year the european parliament warned the council that the funding for the european galileo navigation system was too low. now there's a €2.4 billion gap because the private sector didn't get involved. in accordance with its resolution, the european parliament supports the financing of the project from the budget of the european union by community funds. this procedure is the simplest, least bureaucratic and least democratic. however, such a sum of money, eur 400 million a year, is impossible to find in the current financial framework and therefore requires a joint decision by parliament and the council. we have a chance to save this important european project, but we must do it now in the context of this budgetary procedure. the second problem is the european institute of technology, the eit. if it is to be established, its financing must be managed in a sustainable way. it cannot be based on wishful thinking and assumptions but on realistic decisions. the idea that the eit would probably receive funds from eu programmes on the basis of open competition is only a wish. what if it doesn't? that is why we need realistic solutions. the budget for next year has a particular problem with the structural funds, the cohesion fund and the rural development funds. only a small proportion of the structural funds' programmes have been adopted. of the 335 programmes under the regional development fund and the cohesion fund, some 20% have been approved, but less than 10% have been approved under the social fund. the situation of the eaggf is most worrying, with only two of the 96 programmes approved. in july, the european parliament and the council adopted a declaration to this effect and undertook to follow the commission's action. parliament, for its part, undertakes to implement this declaration. finally, i would like to stress the importance of good governance. the european parliament wants to promote activity-based management and activity-based budgeting. we adopted a declaration with the council, which stresses cost-benefit analysis and clarity of responsibility in the setting up of new agencies. we have to hold on to this. the theme of next year's budget is budget for results. the aim is to emphasise that the appropriations must achieve the desired results. it's not about management. it's about results. i firmly believe that we will succeed, together with the council and the commission, in drawing up such a budget for next year.
the rapporteur. mr president, when preparing next year's budget for parliament and the other institutions, the main principles are thrift and budgetary discipline. we must set an example for the taxpayers, the ordinary european, and show that we are capable of taking responsibility for economic matters too. this is the only way we can win the confidence of the citizens. the new secretary-general of the european parliament has presented a new draft budget for the european parliament for 2008 and i can congratulate him on this, because it is an extremely good and balanced proposal. it will help us to find a compromise when we make the final decision. two points must be made about the proposal. firstly, for a long time the secretary-general's presentation has been less than 20% of heading 5, so that the increase is not used up to the full 20%. another important factor is that he has been able to place a large number of employees in new positions, rather than re-opening all the positions. but we must remember what this whole process in parliament is. we have already adopted certain principles here several times this year, one of which is that parliament's budget is the budget of the taxpayer and that we will try to keep all expenditure on new projects at the 2007 level. we are not far from that goal and i believe that all the projects proposed can be implemented once we have found the exact euro amounts in accordance with budgetary discipline. i would like to mention one more point about parliament's budget, and that relates to information policy. the commission has also taken the initiative of providing a number of information services to the member states, in particular to the media, to the media and to the media in general. it is not that groups and members are absent and only the administration is conducting information policy because people want to know why an individual member or group is voting a certain way or making certain presentations. we want to know the political background and therefore we have to be involved in this activity. i hope that the invitation already decided to the small local media will pass in the final version. one way of getting closer to the people is that we can invite the small local media which do not have the means to come here to parliament. of course, this has to be done through our members. i shall return to other institutions. the council has proposed a general 2% cut for all the institutions. as rapporteur, i find this difficult to accept, because the institutions are so different. some are small, some are large, and the way they work is very different. i shall take the court of auditors, which i visited yesterday, for example. they have been very frugal and budget-conscious for many years. they have returned all surpluses, they have not spent resources for nothing and their expenditure consists of salaries and fixed expenditure, nothing else. this 2% cut would be totally impossible for the court of auditors. the whole idea would be ruined if we followed this. i hope we can agree to go through the institution one by one and look at possible areas of savings. i agree in principle with the council that everyone must be frugal and find ways of saving, but i am not in favour of a general 2% line.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ayala sender, for her very good report. i am, however, sorry that the committee on transport has omitted from the report some of the key points raised by the committee on industry. the most important of these is the internalisation of the external costs of transport, such as environmental costs. pricing that reflects real costs, including environmental and social costs, is a key way of developing a transport system that is intelligent, efficient and rational. in switzerland, the toll on lorries has effectively shifted transport to railways and reduced the number of empty lorries. this is a good example for all of us. it must be understood that efficient and rational transport is not the same as the continuing expansion of road transport. transport co2 emissions cannot continue to rise at the current rate, otherwise it will negate the reductions achieved in other sectors, such as industry.
mr president, commissioner, it has been mentioned that private funding would also come from the united states and microsoft has been mentioned as the eit's financier. is it not worrying that such large american companies are seeking to benefit from the research produced by the european institute of technology? at the same time, i would ask whether these private donors are also setting conditions for the funding they provide.
mr president, commissioner, there is one key point missing from the report, namely the position on alcohol prices and taxes. in finland, a clear link has been established between the price of alcohol and its consumption. the lower the price, the more it is consumed, and vice versa. raising the alcohol tax will reduce its use. our neighboring country, estonia, has a low alcohol tax. in this way, by preventing the eu from imposing quantitative restrictions on imports, estonia is creating a major public health problem for finland. the fact that finns can get cheap alcohol from estonia within 100 kilometres prevents finland from using the best proven method of high alcohol taxation for its own public health. the estonian policy of cheap alcohol and the resulting reduction in the finnish alcohol tax has already led to almost a thousand alcohol-related deaths in finland. that's how estonia kills finns. so we must also talk about prices and taxes.
mr president, the problems caused by the dangerous and harmful use of alcohol have increased in a worrying way in recent years in all the member states of the european union. our society pays a heavy price for this every year in both direct and indirect costs. the most pressing problems of alcohol abuse are among young people. young people are most vulnerable to physical and mental problems and to the social ills of their own and others' drinking. however, alcohol abuse problems are not limited to young people. alcohol is involved in the majority of homicides and causes 17,000 unnecessary deaths in traffic each year. in the 1970s, cirrhosis killed 200 people a year in finland; today, it kills 1,000 people a year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the wine sector. i would like to ask the commission to set ambitious general targets for member states to reduce the use of dangerous and harmful alcohol.
mr president, one of the most common proverbs in my country speaks of wine as the drink of the wise. far from being a message that alcohol makes one wise, it is a message that it is not for anyone but for one who is already familiar with the concept of reasonableness and moderation. i therefore find it easy to join our group's shadow rapporteur, mr sommer, in his emphasis on a strategy to prevent alcohol-related risks. we must start by recognising the different alcohol cultures and finding effective solutions to the real problems of abuse and underage drinking. no labelling of the products themselves or of the wise use. this means that there is a need for cooperation between different actors and for national solutions to local problems. however, there is one area where the eu is lacking in action, and that is the upward revision of the alcohol tax rate on a broad front. it should be recognized that the public health costs of alcohol abuse are enormous and cannot be contained without common economic means of control. my own country is unfortunately a good example in this respect. eu membership forced finland to lower its alcohol tax when the right to restrict alcohol imports expired. a recent study shows that the alcohol tax cut has significantly increased the number of sudden deaths since the tax was reduced in 2004 and consumption started to rise sharply. this is an increase of 17% compared with 2003, not to mention other consequences. our public health problems are so serious that we are again forced to raise taxes. i myself proposed at the time simply that there should be no structural adjustment, that is to say, that imports should be restricted after the end of the transitional period on the basis of article 30 or article 95 of the treaty, and this was justified. unfortunately, this was not the procedure at the time, and the entire nation, evidently not a wise enough people, was paying the bill.
for the alde group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jeggle, for his excellent reports. milk production is the most important agricultural production sector. the importance of this is further enhanced by the fact that beef production is also heavily dependent on calves produced by dairy farms. milk production is also ideally suited to the most difficult regions. for example, in northern europe, dairy farming can make good use of the good yield of the field for the production of rye, which also makes the production resilient to rain, frost and other adverse natural conditions. the proposals now before us will simplify eu legislation in the milk sector. the quality classification of butter is simplified, the strict fat classification of milk is abandoned, the aid for school milk is made independent of the milk fat content and the intervention system is clarified. we can regard these measures as positive and i would like to thank commissioner fischer boel for these reforms. the big question is the overall reform of the milk sector, which will be brought up in the context of the so-called health check on the agricultural intermediate stage in the near future. the most important detail is the milk quotas. the current balance in milk production has been achieved through milk quotas. these have helped to reduce the 1 300 million kilograms of milk fat that we had at the end of the 1980s, while ensuring that consumers have a stable supply of cheap and diversified dairy products. the commission has also provided a forecast framework for milk producers to develop their production. i believe that the eu has a duty to ensure that the framework for milk production remains predictable. this is important because the investment required is decades long and enormous for family farms. in addition, the regulation of production is slow, as it takes about two years for cows to mature to production. the continuation of milk quotas is therefore in the interest of both the consumer and the producer. if quotas are abolished, it means that the investments made by farmers in buying quotas and thus in stability of production conditions are lost. we therefore support the reports presented.
mr president, the new eu counter-terrorism strategy is in place, but thanks are not due to new officials, institutions or organisations. the primary responsibility for combating terrorism lies with national governments and independent member states. however, the successful fight against national terrorism requires excellent confidential european and international cooperation. as commissioner frattini said, trust is the prerequisite for cooperation. trust is built on precise, clear european legislation, clear forms of cooperation and respect for human rights. the fight against terrorism at airports has taken on ridiculous characteristics, such as the removal of lipsticks. at the same time, the eu and many national states have forgotten that natural disasters can also be prevented. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. – the eu is all about free movement of people, goods, services and capital. obstacles for these are to be taken seriously. the fight against terrorism as part of international crime must not be neglected. terrorism is, however, a delicate topic. we must not ever forget that all policies on counter-terrorism have to be based on respect for fundamental rights and human dignity. measures also need to be effective and proportionate to the gain of security. i doubt, for example, that the new restrictions on liquids on aeroplanes meet these criteria. all in all, every effort towards better coordination between member states, and between them and the eu institutions, should be welcomed. after mr de vries stepped down, a new eu anti-terrorism coordinator should be appointed as soon as possible.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr ouzký and others for the excellent motion for a resolution. according to the un, desertification now directly affects between 100 and 200 million people. it's a potential threat to over a billion people, possibly as many as two billion. it's not just about spreading the sahara and stuff. desertification, or the loss of fertile land and vegetation, is taking place all over the world, from the coasts of spain to the plains of china. nearly one third of the earth's land surface is in danger of becoming desert. forty percent of the fields are severely degraded. the situation is worst in central asia, where three quarters of the land is barren. climate change is exacerbating desertification, but so far it has been mostly caused by local actions, such as deforestation and improper farming, irrigation, and livestock management. while climate change exacerbates desertification, desertification exacerbates climate change, because the decrease in carbon bound to the soil eventually releases that carbon into the atmosphere. if we don't act wisely, consistently and quickly, we can create a self-feeding witch trap. the fight against desertification is about preventing hunger and thus also preventing conflict. last june, the un warned that desertification could drive 50 million people from their homes over the next 10 years, mainly in sub-saharan africa and central asia. this also means more people trying to enter europe illegally. the darfur crisis has been described as the first climate change conflict. water shortages are one of the factors in the crisis. more generally, it has been observed that prolonged water shortages and a decline in land productivity are likely to fuel conflicts. as the resolution states, sustainable land use is worth investing in. the measures to prevent desertification will be much cheaper than the consequences of desertification. a cautionary example of a minimum scale is the easter islands. they had once had a thriving culture, but deforestation led to the soil becoming poor, the islands becoming dry grass, and the thriving culture collapsed in a short time. if we act wisely, consistently and decisively, we can prevent all mankind from experiencing the same fate.
mr president, mr president-in-office, russia is a key player in the development of the northern dimension. the european union's relations with russia are important in this respect. does the presidency intend to promote negotiations on a cooperation and partnership agreement with russia this autumn?
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr valenciano, for a very good and very right-wing report. it is very important that human rights be dealt with in this european forum in the european parliament. i can easily agree with the idea put forward by the rapporteur that human rights should be at the heart of the eu's external policy. when we talk about human rights, we must remember that they are not just words or phrases that are used in political speeches and at various ceremonies, but that they are also an everyday reality both within the european union and in our relations with other countries, with third countries. what are human rights in their entirety? i understand that human rights are the inalienable rights of man from the beginning of his life to the end of his life, from the rights of the unborn child to the rights of the elderly. it is the rights of women, as has been said here, and the rights of children, but it is also the rights of the disabled, the sick, the elderly, the rights of everyone. we must remember that every life is precious and unique. i would even say that every life is sacred, so that no one should take away another person's life, another person's human rights. if we in the european union could share the value of human dignity and human rights always prevailing over market dignity, we would be on the right track, on the right path, but unfortunately it seems that many times we allow market dignity to override human rights. there are many examples of china, and they have already come to light today, and we are now looking at the situation in russia, for example. what are human rights in russia? we see them, we know the cases by name, since hodorovsky. what have we achieved as a european community of values? in our european community of values, the european union, we must live as we teach and defend human rights and human dignity everywhere, within the union, but also in relation to third countries and developing countries.
mr president, according to a eurobarometer survey, half of eu citizens are more suspicious of crossborder trade than of trade at home. more than 70% believe that trade-related problems, such as complaints, are difficult to resolve in cross-border trade. the clear majority of consumers feel uncertain about their place in the trading floor. this leads to the absence of new trade and the absence of growth in the economy and, consequently, in the well-being of consumers. the commission believes that the ideal situation would be for eu consumers to have the same fundamental rights wherever they are in the union and wherever they shop. these visions are beautiful, but now we need to act with reason. attitudes change slowly and only if reality changes for the better. the reality is now harsh, and for example, most chains will not be able to return goods if they are defective, except to the original place of purchase, even if the chain has outlets in the place or country where the consumer actually lives. the consumer must be made king. consumer protection laws must specifically protect consumers. the legislation should therefore be modernised, harmonised and in some cases extended. it is strange, for example, that the eu's legal framework does not automatically extend to online auctions. the national level of consumer protection must not be lowered because of eu legislation. finally, i would like to draw attention to the need to improve information and education for consumers. the business community is now much more able to lobby for its rights and to be aware of its rights and obligations, including those concerning consumers. without consumers and their trust, there is no business.
madam president, i would like to make three points. the first one is a bit of a confession: i am a mega shopper. i love to shop on the internet; i love to shop at home and abroad. so, i could say that i have a vested interest in consumer protection. we all know the feeling. when you shop, things do not always go well. you come home, and the suit does not look as good as it was supposed to. you buy something on the internet, and amazon.com sends you the wrong books. you try to get in touch with someone in the shop but do not get an e-mail response. you go to the shop; the salesperson looks at you as if you were some kind of serial killer and you try to say, ‘well, what do you think i am doing? i put my fingers into the electric socket or something? no, the machine does not work!’ so, you do not always get the best service in the world. this is what we are discussing today; trying to get it to work a little bit better. so we know the feeling of what it is like when things go wrong. my second point is that very few people, not even mrs pleštinská’s visitors’ group, know that the european union is the friend of the consumer. i know it does not sound sexy, but the ‘sale of consumer goods and guarantees’ –what is that all about? well, it basically says that you get your money back or you can exchange your product within two years, if the contract that you made with the seller does not fulfil those criteria. i think that is nice. so i say ‘thank you’ to the eu for that. the distance selling directive does not sound very nice either but it basically means that if you buy something on the internet, say from germany, and, when you get it and it does not look like what you wanted, you can send the product back within seven days, and the purchase is refunded. i also think that we should be a little bit better at marketing consumer protection. i will just give you one example from here. i agree with the following sentence but i am doing the sort of mother-in-law test here. what do you think my mother-in-law would say if she read this from the report’s explanatory statement: ‘the horizontal instrument would be based on maximum harmonisation, while the sectoral tools would continue to be based on the principle of minimum harmonisation with the exception of the directives already adopted on the basis of maximum harmonisation, such as the directive on unfair commercial practices’? i agree – no problem. however, if we are trying to deal with consumer protection, let us have some consumer protection on the stuff that we write as well. my third and final point is this: i think the report is good but i think we could go even further. i am all for maximum harmonisation, at the end of the day. the funny thing is that we always claim that we have the best consumer protection in the world. i tell mr harbour that finland has better consumer protection than the uk. he tells me: no, that is not the case at all. so i think we really need to find some kind of balance, and that is why i like your idea, as rapporteur on mutual recognition, to try to have some mutual recognition on this as well. finally, i would like to congratulate ms patrie for a great report. i would like to congratulate the new, dynamic commissioner for great work on the acquis. i think this is a good start, but we can go further.
in writing. mr president, in 1990 the national democratic alliance won the democratic elections in burma. the military junta has placed party leader aung san suu kyi under house arrest. in 2007, the myanmar peace and development council continues the repression. the elected leader of burma, aung san suu kyi, remains in detention. burma is an example of how, as long as the deepest will of the people is repressed in house arrest and prisons, society suffers. human rights and the rule of law are no longer respected. ninety percent of the population lives below the poverty line. the country's economic and humanitarian downturn deepened again this year after the myanmar junta raised fuel prices in august. in seeking a solution, the eu's role will be highlighted in the un security council and the human rights council. the european member states must show firmness and responsibility for the plight of the burmese people. but china, russia and india are the main ones holding the key to the solution. china has already used its veto power in the security council to block a resolution on burma. a respected position in the international community doesn't come for free. you have to earn it. western efforts to rapidly democratize despotic systems of government have failed worldwide. it has been said that democracy is not an export product. some have regarded it as a white man's delusion. people have asked if democracy is even the only right way to run a country. if it's applicable everywhere. but the problem of the world is not that democracy is taken away by the sword and blood. the problem is that it's being suppressed with sword and blood.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, i would like to thank comrade britta thomsen for this report. this will help to bring the energy debate back to the european level. our energy industry is affected by outside forces, but also by its own causes. they should not be forgotten either. for example, we have allowed the reserve capacity to decline by 1% a year, and this creates insecurity. i would first like to draw your attention to the situation of electricity produced from renewable sources. we have drawn up an amendment to his report on this very point together with mr thomsen. it is important that electricity from renewable energy sources is fairly supported. renewable energy must also be able to alleviate energy poverty. industrialized nations must develop technologies and methods that will enable poor nations to secure their energy supply. now economic poverty, information poverty and energy poverty are hitting the same people. in europe, on the other hand, there can be no functioning internal energy market as long as the majority of member states do not comply with the common agreements. it has happened that to be euro-solidarist is to be non-solidarist. the setting of targets for energy production and use is always a difficult task and must be based on sound science. sector specific renewable energy targets at national level should therefore be created with due consideration. the energy conditions vary greatly. we need to discuss with the member states, for example, monitoring systems, the classification of biofuels for transport and the role of nuclear energy in the renewable energy target calculations. as a non-emission energy source, nuclear energy should not be subject to an increase in the target for renewable energy. the commission has classified peat as a fossil fuel, although the un's international panel of climate scientists has moved it to its own category between fossil and biofuels. now there are new positive findings on the impact of peat on climate based on a life cycle model. when peat is used first for peat production and then either for forestry or for the cultivation of fodder, it has a smaller climate impact. the commission notes that the uk authorities have not provided any evidence that the uk authorities have not provided any evidence that the uk authorities have not provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have not provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have not provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the uk authorities have provided any evidence that the necessary to support this. this should be rectified quickly, commissioner.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the international energy agency (iea) estimates that oil will be an extremely scarce resource within five years. natural gas will become even more scarce by the end of the decade. today, 80% of the eu's energy is produced by fossil fuels, mainly oil and gas. the commission's proposal for a directive on the increase in the use of renewable energy sources is therefore necessary. renewable energy accounts for more than 6% of the eu's energy supply today. of this, biomass and waste incineration account for 4.2%, hydropower for 1.5%, wind power for 0.3%, geothermal for 0.3% and sunlight for almost nothing. the target of increasing the share of renewable energy sources to 20%, or tripling their share by 2020, seems to be an overly ambitious target. on the other hand, the european parliament has in the past gone even further: 25% in 2020 and as much as 50% in 2040. the commission's proposal of 20% refers to the eu average. the only countries that are crossing the border today are latvia, sweden, finland and austria, but these countries are not escaping the directive, and are being given higher targets. the largest eu countries are at the top of the list: england 2%, germany 4%, poland 5%, and france, spain and italy 6%. the achievement of the 20% target set by the directive will be determined by the willingness and ability of large member states to increase the use of renewable energy. it would be interesting to know how they do it. if they do not commit themselves to the directive by word of mouth, the commission has no way of forcing them to act. however, the pressure may come from outside the eu as a result of the rise in the price of oil and gas, as a result of our disposable lifestyles.
mr president, we will not be able to reduce co2 emissions in line with our objectives unless we have both strategies in place - both the energy efficiency target and renewable energy sources. the use of renewable energy sources currently varies widely between member states. we need binding country-specific energy efficiency targets and targets for renewable energy. the rapporteur is quite right to draw attention to two very practical issues, namely how we achieve these objectives within the european union. it is necessary to require that the member states with large populations, which currently produce a very small proportion of their energy from renewable sources, close this gap. the efforts of small countries alone will not solve this problem. another important point made here is that natural things must be used. there's the sun, there's the biofuel capacity, and somewhere there's the wind. these issues must be taken into account in the national programmes. it is essential that eu and member state policies are long-term and consistent. this is the only way to get investors and financiers involved, and industry too. without the right support systems, without the right regulation, so that we can have a sustainable energy policy, we will not be able to bring about the real revolution that has been brought about here in energy policy. we need to talk about biofuels in a way that supports the next generation of biofuels, not in a way that competes with food and fuel.
mr president, i think it is actually quite fun to have a lively audience. we do not always get applause and cheers and shouts. i know it is forbidden, but i think it is actually quite fun, so it should be allowed. if you would allow me, i would like to make three points. the first one is actually an echo of what the commissioner said. i think that we need a common energy policy. it is very important, of course, that we look at the national targets, but as an overall approach we must look at it from a common perspective. this means that we need to revise a lot of the legislation in the pipeline and we need to focus, as mr paasilinna said earlier, on a proper energy mix while looking at the whole programme. my second observation is about fair burden-sharing and i am quite happy with the 2020 aims in this respect: they are good and they are ambitious. i am not 100% sure that we will ever achieve them, especially on the renewables side, but nevertheless it is a good aim. but, in doing this, it is very important that we have a careful look at the burden-sharing. i do not want to be in a situation whereby small states such as finland, which already has 25% renewables today, have to hike up their burden to, say, 45%, whereas the five biggest member states, which actually consume 60% of energy, keep much lower standards. so let us be really fair on this. on top of that, of course, a country like finland is not going to have too much solar energy, unfortunately. the third observation i have is about the methodology for calculation. it seems that wind and solar are penalised in relation to biomass. fine, let us try to live with it but look at it very closely. with the national action plans, i would like to hope that the directorate-general for energy and transport has enough staff, or is able to recruit enough staff, to deal with, monitor and implement the issues. in my remaining time, these are my three points: firstly, we need a common energy policy, secondly we need fair burden-sharing and, thirdly, we need to be very careful with the methodology for calculation.
kirjallinen. – finland is one of the world’s leading countries in utilising renewable energy sources, especially bioenergy. the share of renewable energy in finland is ca. 25%. the objectives concerning the use of renewable energy sources must be realistic. in the fight against the climate change, the availability of reasonable priced bio mass, vital for our forest industry, must be ensured. in finland peat has been defined as slowly renewing biomass fuel. as indigenous fuel, peat has a considerable effect on regional policy, and it increases employment and the security of energy supply. no emission-free, low-emission or other form of generation that is emission-neutral, sustainable and cost-efficient can be ruled out, including nuclear power. all forms of energy must be assessed on the basis of the overall interests of society. the share of carbonless energy sources, including nuclear energy, should be increased in the fight against climate change. nuclear power increases independence from imported energy, is environmentally cleaner than other options and an economical energy source. i therefore find it very important that member states are free to choose the most appropriate renewable energy sources given the differences in geological, hydrological and climatic conditions in the member states.
in writing. mr president, in promoting renewable energy sources, we must be careful to identify the needs we are trying to meet. it is one thing to be a pioneer at any cost, reaching your targets, and it is another to develop far-reaching, cross-sectoral, sustainable energy solutions. it is already clear that the percentage targets set and the eu's environmental and climate targets on the other hand are unfortunately not mutually supportive at the implementation level. however, the decision to achieve the targets has resulted in artificially manipulated energy markets at the expense of consumers and in unsustainable energy solutions to address climate change. the compliance with the 10% minimum binding target for biofuels for transport should be a welcome example. when it comes to combating climate change, switching to biofuels is not the answer. it is hardly the right course to take in a world where food shortages are a likely scenario in the face of the greenhouse effect. the concern expressed in a study published by the oecd that state subsidies for biofuels may lead to higher food prices and damage to forests, while their use may be less important in combating climate change than estimated, is real. a similar concern is expressed in a recent article in science magazine comparing the climate benefits of biofuels with deforestation over a period of 30 years. the results of the comparison vary depending on the raw material and production technology, but in all cases, afforestation of the corresponding area of cultivation would capture 2 to 9 times more carbon than could be reduced by using biofuels. we must now be patient in achieving these objectives, lest we also soon find that the decision to rapidly increase the share of renewable energy sources to one fifth of energy production was taken in haste and threatens the environment in the future in the form of deforestation.
for the alde group mr president, the eu sugar policy is in a strange situation. sugar quotas have been reduced by 2.2 million tonnes, but at the same time the commission has sold new quotas of 1 million tonnes. the net reduction is therefore only 1 million tonnes, compared to the target of six times. meanwhile, the major producing countries have only increased their production. for example, germany has increased its production by some 240 000 tonnes and france by 350 000 tonnes. only small countries have reduced their production, and only italy has reduced it significantly. the result has been that small countries and those with the most vulnerable natural conditions have had to reduce their sugar production. at the same time, more than eur 3 billion has been raised for the restructuring fund, i.e. eur 3 000 million, of which some eur 2 000 million is currently unused. this money has been collected mainly from consumers, because consumer prices have fallen more slowly than producer prices, and this difference has been collected in the fund, on the one hand, and also from farmers whose producer prices have fallen. this money has been paid and will be paid mainly to industry in the form of a huge compensation of eur 730 per tonne, while at the same time the restructuring of industry and the dismantling of factories will cost perhaps 10%, at best 20% of this money. the whole sugar policy is a warning example of what happens when agricultural policy is implemented on industrial terms. the industry is being paid a huge amount of compensation, mostly in return. it would be desirable to continue to pursue the agricultural policy as an agricultural policy and not as an industrial policy. solidarity should be taken into account in particular, because all countries, including those which have reduced their own sugar production, still have to pay higher taxes on sugar than world market prices, but they are not allowed to produce it because the industry has been able to decide to do so. it is also necessary to ensure that in future no similar system will be applied to other sectors of agricultural production.
mr president, commissioner, i understand and support the need to continue to cut sugar quotas, and i also understand in the light of the figures that the previous reform was not a complete success. but the question is how this future reform will be implemented. it should be fair to all member states and, for example, in my own country, finland, there have been two sugar factories in finland and the previous quota cut led to the closure of another sugar factory, which effectively cut the quotas by 40%. if we now cut another 13 per cent in line with this reform, it would mean that at worst finland would have to stop all sugar production, because both factories would have to close. this is of course a completely unfair situation for finnish sugar growers and finnish industry. i therefore support the amendment tabled by mr fajmon, which states that this proposal should not apply to member states whose quota has already been cut by more than 20%, unless those member states decide otherwise. i hope the commissioner also understands the situation of a small country. at the same time, when in finland there is a discussion about cutting subsidies under article 141 in the south, the rural population's faith in the european union is very weak. we must give them a glimmer of hope and above all these reforms must be carried out in a fair way, so that they are applied to all member states in the same way.
madam president, i was very pleased to hear about the commission initiative to establish a european day against the death penalty on 10 october, and i fully support that initiative and urge all colleagues to support it, as many in this debate have done already. it was shocking for me to realise that not all eu countries were in favour of this initiative. poland’s position puts the credibility of the eu as a primary force for abolition in jeopardy and i sincerely hope that the government of poland will reconsider its position. the death penalty is a cruel and inhuman punishment. it is detrimental to human dignity and there is absolutely no evidence to suggest that the use of the death penalty serves as a deterrent against crimes. fortunately, the trend in the world is now towards abolition. the whole of europe, except for belarus, is already on board, and more and more states from all continents are joining an ever-growing list of abolitionist countries. i also think that we should continue to urge our american colleagues to abolish the death penalty once and for all. a moratorium on executions is the first step towards abolition. the eu must continue to urge all states that still maintain the death penalty to introduce a moratorium. a resolution at the un general assembly against the death penalty will hopefully play an important role in this respect. however, we should take care that the situation does not develop in the same way as in 1999, when finland, my home country, tried to get the un general assembly to adopt the death penalty resolution. it was watered down so much that it would have done more harm to the cause than good. now that italy has put the issue back on the un agenda i hope that the eu as a whole will back the proposal and we shall get a un general assembly resolution on this.
commissioner, we have had bad experiences with another cooperation project, the galileo project, where the european union had to finance the original plans, contrary to its actions, because all the parties did not participate in the financing of the action as planned. can the commissioner's answer be interpreted as meaning that we may not have problems in meeting the commitments made on iter, that is to say, we will not have the same problem with iter as we had with galileo, where the parties did not fulfil the responsibilities to which they had committed themselves?
thank you, commissioner, for your answers. i was very pleased to hear that you think that the common regulatory framework is developing in the right direction, and also that you challenge the nanodialogue project and findings of the study to which the question is referring. i think that the eurobarometer shows clearly that european citizens are in favour of developing nanotechnologies. my question for you is that, in his question, mr schlyter says that nanotechnology involves increasing risks. do you have any data now that shows nanotechnology would pose such a risk, which mr schlyter seems to say is already a fact?
the rapporteur. mr president, this european institute of technology has been in existence for over a year and time has passed since the commission's original proposal called for a lot of improvement. parliament's committees, led by itre, have adapted the proposal to the new faith. the parliament and the council have been given a greater say without compromising the eit's autonomy. the selection of the eit's governing board will closely resemble the selection process of the erc, the european research council, and has been praised by the scientific community. the aim is to strengthen the participation of smes. it is there that the employment impact is greatest, it is there that the agility and speed to put innovation into action are greatest. the european institute of innovation and technology will, as its name suggests, focus on innovation. the other two elements of the knowledge triangle, teaching and research, remain, but innovation is clearly at the top of the triangle, it is the focus. innovation must be given special attention, because innovation is the achilles' heel of europe. it is amazing that americans file over a third more patent applications, even to the european - our own - patent office than we do ourselves, and this is a good starting point. the question to be asked is whether the union is competitive without innovation and its increase. these are inventions and methods that can be widely used in business. don't you need more? we have to get going, because america is rushing ahead and china is blowing behind us. the lisbon strategy also requires speed. why can't we even trust our own strategic decisions? the share of r & d expenditure in gdp in the union is still significantly lower than in other world economies. we spend less than two percent on them, the united states almost three, japan over three and only sweden and finland almost four percent. yet, our high level of education and research produces far too few commercial applications. at least they are not being done in europe, but in the united states, especially. the problem is of course complex and involves, among other things, the willingness of universities to cooperate with the business world. we also have a complicated patent system and so on. the eit will not, of course, eliminate these problems, but it can help to alleviate them. a brain drain must be a serious matter. why would you do that? because we're trying to become the world's leading knowledge-based economy and our brains are leaking out! the eit offers the private sector a new way of engaging with the education and research community. it will in turn create opportunities for commercial exploitation of research results and intensify cooperation in both directions. the institute will not become a super-university, robbing the best universities of their best researchers, as parliament's amendments guarantee. the eit can offer the best higher education institutions a new long-term opportunity to work with innovation-hungry companies. the eit can help the best universities to attract the world's best and brightest students and researchers to develop and exploit research, innovation and governance methods alongside the best companies. the proposal has a number of overlaps with existing instruments, which need not be denied. the technology platforms of the seventh framework programme and the wider jits, once they are operational, will be based on much the same principles as those envisaged in the eit. the competitiveness and innovation programme also has similarities. there may be some overlap, europe is not producing too much innovation, but too little, so there is room for new competing firms. it's about how the eit fits into the current puzzle. i believe that it can be integrated into the european research field without damaging the environment. we have included a pilot phase with evaluation and increased the power of parliament. the commission published a proposal a week ago to transfer money from administrative bureaucracy, from support for agriculture - wine and potatoes - to new innovations. isn't that the way to do it? that's interesting. i'm not sure. the decisive factor for the fate of the eit now lies in the willingness of member states to finance it, in member states that do not invest sufficiently. are we all behind the lisbon objectives? this is a test of that. the eit can add value to the achievement of the lisbon objectives, but only if it does not cannibalize the programmes under lisbon. the union needs innovation, ladies and gentlemen, the people need it, our future needs it. why not support the necessity?
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs paasilinna for her excellent report. the idea of a european institute of technology was only conceived by the commission after the adoption of the eu's multiannual financial framework. so its funding was very broad, and its idea of what it was doing was vague. the report has been considerably improved since parliament's debate, although there is still a lot to be done. eu funding remains a challenge. as škottová noted, the main part of the funding is expected to come from the structural funds and the eu research programmes. this is not at all clear, however, since the use of the structural funds is decided by the member states according to their own priorities. the majority of research funding is awarded on a competitive basis. despite the commission's assurance, the principle of fair competition may be difficult to apply when the applicant is a 'child of one's own'. the funding of the eit's operational networks, the 'kics', is also open in principle. the allocation of funds from eu programmes requires the 'kics' to provide their own counter-funding. the eu budget cannot be used for this, it has to be obtained elsewhere. how this will be achieved is also unclear. the revision of the financial perspective presented by the commission last week is a partial solution to these problems. i just hope it goes well. developing the eu as a functioning european institution requires hard work. and money alone can't do that either. that is why i wish the project every success in the future.
in writing. – education, research and innovation are windows to the future. they are the building blocks of what is called the ‘knowledge triangle’. we need to be competitive. the knowledge triangle is one of the keys. therefore i see the european institute of technology (eit) as an investment to the future. there has been scepticism to the added value eit could offer. the network structure supported in this, mr paasilinna’s, report will be a good solution. the expertise lies in the participating universities and higher education institutions. therefore, rather than what the president of the commission, mr barroso, has called a ‘flagship’ of european research, the eit will try to be a label branding european research. i support this idea. remembering my academic years, i also support the report’s idea of the eit’s ‘knowledge and innovation communities’ (kics) being autonomous. this way the eit kics will give the best kicks to european innovation.
i too, mr president, would like to congratulate mrs saryusz-wolsk on her excellent report on a very important subject. the report shows that the union still has a long way to go in creating a common energy policy. i would like to emphasise the role of renewable energy in improving energy self-sufficiency, diversifying energy sources and managing climate change. the commission will continue to support the development of the energy sector in the union by providing support to the development of the energy sector in the union. the member states must be able to retain their right to make energy decisions and to exploit their own energy resources, but at the same time there is a need for cooperation, the exchange of good practices and also common provisions which will help to create a common energy policy. it is also important to implement joint renewable energy projects with the union's neighbouring countries in order to make more efficient and sustainable use of renewable energy resources throughout europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur for making the russian-german nordstream project a common european objective. it really is. the eu needs gas, and russia needs its export earnings. at the same time, the project is causing fear and anxiety among the inhabitants of the baltic sea region and is perceived as a threat. we need confidence-building measures to remove this distrust. russia cannot continue to foment serious contradictions between itself and the peoples around its main export route. however, only a united eu can turn the threat it now feels is an opportunity and a step forward in relations with russia. in order to give the project the go-ahead, the eu must require: a reliable assessment of its environmental impact, guarantees of compensation if the gas pipeline causes accidents and full operational transparency in the form of a monitoring council with representatives of the baltic sea countries.
i would like to say a few words about this european institute of technology. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr paasilinna. he's done a very good job. i know that he is an expert in the field of education and research and in matters related to these matters. this is a very ambitious project, but i would like to stress that if we are going to build new institutions in the european union, it would be very important that before we build them we ensure that the existing institutions can receive adequate funding. we should therefore also ensure that the existing network of universities can receive adequate support and thus generate new research. i voted for the rapporteur in this vote on the recommendation of mrs paasilinna, but i ask parliament to take into account that the research communities already in existence could receive their funding and that this new institute of technology would not eat up the funding allocated to them. i ask that this be recorded and taken into account in any decision.
mr president, energy security is the most important factor in the overall security of europe. the saryusz-wolski report is a response to this challenge for the future of europe. the eu's problem is the decline in energy independence. already, the eu imports half of its energy needs from outside and by 2025 it is estimated to be over 70% dependent on imports. this requires a strong common voice, a new energy diplomacy and a special high representative for the eu's external energy policy to take charge of this. the transfer of a stronger mandate to the union in the field of external energy policy must not, however, mean that the sovereignty of the member states to decide on the means of energy production, its composition, is weakened. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for this. the report gives the member states the freedom to decide independently on the structure of their energy supply.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their encouragement and good cooperation: mr wallis, who is here today, and especially mr hatzidakis. he was so qualified that he was immediately elected to the government of his own country. i am grateful and happy that harbour and kauppi are here today as well. the internal market is known to be based on four freedoms, but one of them, the crossborder movement of services, is not working very well. the services directive, which was adopted in this house a year ago, improves the situation when member states have to implement it in two years' time, but that is probably not enough either. of course, services are not exactly comparable to products, but services will be even more important in the future. it is high-quality, crossborder services that are the future of this continent. the problem is that the community acquis does not protect consumers who buy services as well as consumers who buy goods. european consumers' confidence in crossborder consumption is also weak because of the different levels of services and consumer protection in different member states. the union has community legislation in certain areas but no common rules for services. consumers, like service providers, are not always able to say which member state's legal system applies in the event of a dispute. this is one of the reasons why consumers are afraid to use foreign providers. i believe that the union should agree on common rules and obligations for service providers. these would benefit not only consumers but also the service providers themselves. in future, when the commission examines the obligations of service providers, it should not distinguish between private and public services. both should be equally covered by consumer protection directives. in 1990, the commission presented a proposal on the liability of crossborder service providers. however, it had to withdraw the proposal in the absence of political will. but the political will is beginning to be found again. the commission will if this report is adopted present within 12 months at least a work programme in which it will reassess the need for a horizontal instrument. we must define simple basic rules on the basis of which the consumer can obtain, if he so wishes, appropriate information on prices, contractual conditions and the right of appeal in cases of inadequate or delayed services. the commission must also take account of the impact of the initiatives on the conditions under which smes operate. all these issues are not addressed in the green paper on consumer protection, but they are in this report. i hope that the members will support this report as much as possible.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who seems to be losing his voice like i am. it seems to be the case that most colleagues have sore throats in strasbourg this week. i represent the committee on legal affairs, for which i was draftsman of the opinion. i would like to say that, first of all, we fully agree with the assessment of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the importance of the services sector for the development of the european union. it would be an absolute kamikaze mission for the european union and the competitiveness targets if we do not let the services sector flourish and allow the internal market to be completed in this respect. i really think, out of these 11.7 million jobs created over the last eight years in the european union, almost 100% of the net growth of new jobs in europe has come from the services sector, and everyday statistics prove this. but i have to be – in finnish, a fakkijuristi – a ‘dull lawyer’, and bring the legal affairs committee’s point of view to this debate. first of all, we really share the commission view that at this point it is maybe too early to have a far-reaching new horizontal tool to solve the liability issues. we have already pending several legislative initiatives, which are all aimed at ensuring legal certainty, such as rome i, rome ii and also the green paper on the review of the consumer acquis. also, i would like to say that article 5 of the contractual obligations (rome i) proposal is essential in order to determine whether the consumer protection legislation of the country of origin or of the country of the client applies. this is especially important for smaller member states, where we might lack a supply of new services if article 5 is not correctly solved. we also regret the present mix of legislative instruments. sometimes it is not very clear which legal regime is applicable to each aspect of the activities of the services sector: whether they have to obey the civil law of the host or home country or the regulatory regime of the host or home country. it is necessary that we also get some case-law from the european court of justice on these issues. also i would like to stress that cross-border services are provided in many different ways. some of them sell online, some travel to another country for services, and sometimes the service provider visits the customer’s home country. i think that the internal market for services, the legal framework which is based on the country of origin principle, depends on the relevant measures being clear both from the legal and practical perspective, and maybe it is too early now to really do something. as the commissioner rightly said, now it is time to implement all the good work we have done during recent years.
mr president, colleagues, first let me emphasise that i welcome the commission and ms descamps’ report on digital libraries as a timely and important contribution towards ensuring that digital information is preserved for future generations. it is true that the internet has become one of the principal means of access to knowledge and learning. digital libraries would surely benefit many researchers, students, teachers and – as one specific group – people with physical disabilities. so this is a perfect initiative in the year of equal opportunities for all. i would just like to draw your attention to one aspect that needs to be thoroughly assessed before making decisions. public/private cooperation and private sponsorship for the digitalisation of europe’s cultural heritage is an important element of the system as it now stands. we need to make sure that new regulations in this field do not threaten the benefits of the current system, especially on scientific information. for example, we have to make sure that the peer review mechanism is safeguarded. peer review is the process by which independent experts in a scientific discipline – the peers – critically assess a scientific paper reporting on research. the peer review system is critical for the scientific community as it is an important quality control mechanism and can influence scientific careers. we also need to avoid a scenario where open access puts the existing dissemination of scientific research through subscription journals at risk. one question to be assessed is also damage to the profitability of journals from small publishing houses. in short, the current system is perceived by many stakeholders as easy to access, efficient, cost-effective and also of high quality. we have to be sure that the benefits, especially for researchers, will be on the positive side and we must avoid any unintended negative consequences for the very people we are hoping to assist.
rapporteur. – mr president, firstly i would like to express my gratitude to the commission for drafting this very important report. equality between women and men is an issue that continues to deserve our full attention. although much has been achieved in the past decades, important challenges remain. the focus of the commission report is on employment issues. for example, the gender pay gap, insecurity in the job market and the reconciliation of professional and family life are issues that have a bearing on the lives of millions of women every single day. they are also clearly linked to the demographic challenge facing europe. as the commission report indicates, six million of the eight million jobs created in the eu since 2000 have been taken up by women. most of these six million new jobs for women come from the services sector. the 11.7 million new jobs created by the services sector are mostly occupied by women. that is why the services sector, its growth and the internal market are such a key issue for many women in europe. however, the majority of new jobs for women are part-time jobs, some of them unsafe and insecure with low salaries. fixed-term contracts are also a big problem for many women in europe, who would like to have more sustainability and stability in their family life as well. commission figures show that, in the eu, 32% of women in employment have a part-time job, compared to only 7% of men, so there is clearly a gender dimension in the part-time job market in europe. the gender pay gap, on which the commission issued an initiative in july, is 15% on average across the eu, and up to 30% in some european countries. the gender pay gap has not decreased, although directives on the principle of equal pay for men and women have been in place for more than 30 years, so it is very timely that the commission has taken up this issue. on the other hand, we know that member states that have adopted policies reconciling professional and family life for both women and men have higher birth rates, a higher percentage of women in the labour market and higher employment rates. across the eu, women also hold the majority of highly-skilled, non-manual jobs. this week there was quite wide coverage of a finnish study about women leaders in business. a total of 14 000 finnish companies were looked at and women business leaders made a 1% better return every year for the stakeholders of companies than male leaders. that is 10% better than men. even though all the other things were removed from the calculation, there was clearly an advantage for women in business leadership, so this is also something that the commission is going to take into account in the future. in finland, as in other countries, education has been the key for female advancement. the rise in educational standards has gone hand in hand with increased female employment. in finland, for example, 32.7% of women are highly skilled, compared to only 24.3% of men, according to the commission study. so all the initiatives in the field of education and life-long learning that the commission has tabled are needed and it is very important that we keep education focused on gender policies. my report calls for specific measures to combat inequalities caused by interrupted patterns of employment resulting from maternity leave and leave to take care of dependants. it caused the commission to develop gender analyses on the impact of pension reforms on women’s lives in the eu with the objective of individualising pension rights as well as the social security and tax system. what i find particularly important is that the report urges member states to mutualise the cost of maternity leave allowance in order to ensure that women no longer represent a more costly source of labour than men. i certainly hope that my own member state, which has a world record government of 60% women ministers, will take on board this issue and mutualise paternity/maternity leave costs. the report also underlines the need to address the major democratic deficit. we want to investigate the situation that prevents women’s participation in politics and in senior management in public administration at all levels and, if possible, take measures to combat such situations. attention must also be paid to the situation of women belonging to ethnic minorities and women immigrants, as their marginalisation is reinforced by multiple discrimination from both outside and within their own communities. i urge the commission to cooperate with member states to collect relevant data and to enforce measures that would prevent human trafficking for sexual exploitation and forced labour. i think that we can finish on a very positive and encouraging note. women today have opportunities that most of their mothers and grandmothers could never have dreamt of. women who are reaping the benefits of the brave new world should speak out, and i think that it was very important that the commission took the initiative to table this report. we continue to fight for full equality for both genders in europe.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr piia-noora kaup on his important report. gender equality is one of the fundamental principles of the eu, as commissioner michel also said, but it is only one of the fundamental principles that is being put forward in speeches and statements like this. in reality, the eu is not very interested in equality between women and men. it was also reflected in the commissioner's speech. he said the eu would continue to do all it could. it doesn't add up to anything. what is the eu doing to ensure that the directives adopted by the eu on equal pay and many other issues are actually implemented? i think the eu really should wake up to the fact that men and women are even more equal in europe. the eu says a lot more than it does, and the member states say a lot more than they do. in fact, this issue is not going to be a big deal for the eu's top leadership for a long time. i do not think that the highest decision-makers in our own countries or the social partners will be much more incensed. there are other things more important. this is reflected in the fact that the pay gap is still 15% in the eu countries as a whole and in my own country, a pioneer in gender equality, unfortunately 20%. i hope that in the future the commissioner and the commission as a whole will really realise, recognise and do something about the fact that the principle of equality between men and women is a principle of the eu. today, it is a blank page.
mr president, it is very nice to have my name on the wall together with a secretary of state and a commissioner – it is a big moment! i would like to make three points if you would allow me. i have been involved in three intergovernmental conferences myself as a civil servant. my view on intergovernmental conferences is that, for the past 25 years, we have either been preparing, negotiating or ratifying a new treaty. i do not know about you guys – mr corbett and the others – i, at least, am getting to the stage of igc fatigue. we need to get this over and done with. there have been too many igcs; they have been constant. i am not against change – quite the contrary – but at some stage we need to calm down, and i think, in two weeks, we will end up doing that. my second observation is that, of course, i would have liked to have had a constitution, but let us live with the reformed treaty as it stands. it is a great improvement on what we have. of course, we all have criticisms, not least on the opt-outs, not least on the question of whether it is simplified or actually more complicated. we all have our qualms, but remember: it is very strong on foreign policy; it gives us a legal personality; it gives us fundamental rights – at least some of us – and it gives us more qualified majority voting. of course, there is always room for improvement at the end of the day, but this reformed treaty is what we have. so, to the uk and to poland i say, ‘calm down and accept it’. the final point i have is that i really do believe that it is time to try to restore trust between the member states. we have been on a negative wave ever since the nice negotiations, when the small were pitted against the big. now it is time, i think, to bury the axe and restore trust, the way in which we used to have it before nice. it is time to calm the institutions down, settle the issues and focus on real policymaking.
there is a large group of citizens who have been neglected in the debate on the composition of the european parliament. i am thinking of the almost 50 million europeans who belong to a regional or national linguistic minority. today we are only a handful of members of parliament representing these groups. it is not sustainable and unfortunately it gives the wrong impression of the european parliament. it is as if we did not understand the vulnerable position in which some linguistic minorities still live. the report by mr lamassoure and mr severin, which is based on the so-called degressive proportionality, is a brilliant statistical achievement and i shall vote in favour of it too, but we must now also dare to discuss other issues. how can we strengthen citizens' trust in the european union? how can we ensure that the eu and the european parliament are living up to the objectives we want others to follow, i.e. how can we ensure that the voices of minorities are also heard? ladies and gentlemen, do we as members of the european parliament want to see regional and national linguistic minorities left to the mercy of national governments, which may even give them a place, or do we want these minorities to be unrepresented in the european parliament? the answer should be a resounding no! in order to safeguard diversity, it is therefore time to reserve a number of seats in the european parliament for linguistic minorities. i speak for the swedish-speaking population in finland and for the åland region.
madam president, i think this is one of the saddest days in our plenary work over these five years because it is the first time i, at least, personally, feel that this has become an intergovernmental body. this reminds me of the nights in amsterdam in 1997; this reminds me of the nights in nice in 2000. and today in the group, and i think here in plenary, we can see what it is all about. i really thought that the european parliament was here to represent the interests of all european peoples, not narrow national interests. we have three options on the table: one is the severin-lamassoure proposal, which i think is a european proposal. it is an excellent proposal and they have done a fantastic job and should be congratulated for it. (applause) the second option that we have is to go back to nice. perhaps some of us want that; i do not know. but do we really? is that why we are going through this whole debate? do we want to go back to nice? does spain want to lose seats? does poland want to lose seats? i do not know. the third option is what i call a provocative option and that is two provocations: one, to give the big states a hell of a lot more and the small states a hell of a lot less. the other provocation came from the other side, to give the little ones a lot and give absolutely nothing to the big. is that what we want? is that what we are here for? i do not think so. at least, i do not hope so. tomorrow’s debate is about the credibility of the european parliament and whether we can take a rational, logical and fair decision. are we capable of coming up with a proposal, or are we just like the member states? (applause)
in writing. mr president,i represent a small and peripheral member state of the union. for me, in particular, this means understanding that national interests must sometimes be vigorously defended and that our different living conditions must be brought to the fore. in general, the representatives of the large member states, at least in my group, have understood this. they have been careful not to overthrow our views in order to prevent the big countries in the union from overthrowing the small ones. the defence of the voice of a small country during the preparation of the lamassoure report was to hold on to the 14 seats in the finnish parliament, as other finnish mps did. it is perfectly justified to defend the advantage gained. the amendments proposed by the finnish meps to the report to save one seat were not, however, passed in committee and would have had no chance of passing in the plenary. the main reason is probably that the advantage gained had already been surrendered at some stage: after all, finland agreed to 13 meps at the nice negotiations. the lamassoure report also threatens much more: the amendments proposed by my group from the german, spanish and polish delegations seriously jeopardise the influence of small member states in the european parliament. the amendment, which would give each member state 6 seats from 2014 and the remaining seats to be distributed according to the d'hondt system, completely destroys the current degressive electoral system, which is the best guarantee of a balanced decision-making process in the union. the amendment would mean that, for example, finland's number of seats would be reduced to ten if enlargement continues. we cannot accept this. i urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to remember to value the influence of the small in our union.
mr president, commissioner, there is human suffering in gaza. its humanitarian crisis has escalated in recent months into an unprecedented catastrophe. it is no longer a question of a shortage of just basic foodstuffs. the palestinian economy has collapsed and the possibility of doing business has been reduced. the daily life of the people has been shattered and the aid agencies are unable to operate in the area. the inhabitants are trapped in the middle of the blockade and, as the honourable member has pointed out, the same problems threaten the west bank. the people of gaza are the victims of failed policies on both sides of the crisis. it is a very different thing to speak of hamas as the enemy and a terrorist organization than to declare all of gaza as an enemy territory. it is one thing to talk about israel as an enemy and another to refuse to cooperate with the providers of basic services and international organizations. despite the impasse between the parties to the crisis, the responsibility for fundamental humanitarian rights lies with both sides. the resolution by the groups in this parliament is an exceptionally clear statement of the middle east crisis. it's completely stripped of political backdrops. the european union remains deeply concerned about the lives of the people of gaza. commissioner, i would like to remind you that we have already expressed this same concern earlier this year. now we can't be on either side, we can't point fingers. may the suffering of an innocent man take away any desire to explain and seek justification for the situation in gaza. we ask only one thing: the parties to the crisis, let us help and especially help yourselves, because the people's need is great. i hope, commissioner, that you will take this european demand for the situation in gaza to the parties to the crisis, to the arab partners and to the quartet.
mr president, the eu's maritime policy is one of the most important initiatives for which the present commission will be remembered with goodwill, especially if the commission is able to use its enlargement and the political muscle it has given us in enlargement to save our marine environment. i now call on the commission to take specific action to save the eu's very special sea, the baltic sea. i ask whether the commission could see the baltic sea not only as an environmental challenge but also as a political challenge. if we can save the dying sea, we can show the people that there is real value in the union and that together we are stronger to save our environment than we are alone.
i would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr chatzimarkakis, on this report. of course, one may ask what can become of a report if the rapporteur is a person with a german mind, a greek heart and even a bit of finnish soul in his soul. it can be said that the report can then be useful in many respects, and this is also true of this report. congratulations on that. it is true that when we talk about agriculture and agricultural financing systems, it is very important that we emphasize transparency. openness is the starting point. of course, the other aspect which should go hand in hand with transparency when we talk about financial programmes is fairness, but i have had to observe over the last few years here in the european parliament that fairness is a relative concept and we define fairness in different ways. in any case, i hope that greater transparency will also increase the citizens' confidence in our decision-making system and in the fact that we are willing to take the right decisions here in agriculture, as in other areas of finance. however, mr president, i would also like to raise the issue of agriculture more broadly, by pointing out that, in addition to transparency, i hope that we will also pay attention to justice in future. now that the commissioner is here, it is very important to ensure that even small member states can be treated properly and that a certain degree of national self-sufficiency can be maintained in the future. we have serious examples of this in finland with the sugar decision taken in the european union quite recently and with the decisions on agricultural aid. they do not treat small and large member states equally, and i hope that in the future there will be a major contribution to justice in this respect, now that this transparency problem is being remedied by the cháti markakis report. we must ensure that the european union and our decision-making system are open and that citizens can rely on them and continue to support them.
in writing. – more transparency means less unfounded anti-eu propaganda. therefore it is easy to support the rapporteur’s approach welcoming the commission’s proposal to improve transparency and implementation of european agricultural expenditure. we have to keep in mind that agricultural expenditure constitutes one of the largest shares of eu spending. therefore it is a question of legitimacy for the union. the lack of a clear view on all expenditure, not only agricultural, results in a distorted picture of eu spending. at the same time we know that management of agricultural expenditure has steadily improved. data on community expenditure should be easily available on the internet. full transparency is essential for budgetary control. therefore i am happy to note that mr chatzimarkakis received 100% support in the committee.
the committee on agriculture has drawn up an opinion. mr president, the subject under discussion, the sustainable use and marketing of pesticides, is of great importance. it is about both sustainable agriculture and public health. it is therefore regrettable that the commissioner responsible for agriculture is not now taking part in this debate. for thousands of years man has had to fight against pests, weeds, and plant diseases. they have not only reduced the harvest but also made it unfit for human consumption. in recent decades this battle has been successfully fought, largely because of new pesticides. at the same time, however, health threats have emerged. the proposals for directives under discussion are very strict. the new provisions are intended to improve the general public health situation. however, no clear analytical picture has been provided of the hazards of the plant diseases and weeds that the pesticides are intended to control. this is a great shortcoming, for it is feared that the best is the enemy of the good. it is feared that the practice of sustainable agriculture will be pushed back by years. not using pesticides may not be a good option, even from a public health standpoint.
mr president, the thematic strategy and framework directive on plant protection products are a challenging legislative project and reflect the fundamental objective of eu environmental policy to combine effective environmental and health protection with policies that take account of social realities. it is recognised that the use of plant protection products and pesticides has significant economic benefits. the competent use of these substances is, frankly, one of the conditions of modern food production. at the same time, however, the negative effects of plant protection products on the environment and in particular on water bodies are real. so how can these substances be used in a way that still allows the benefits of pesticides to be reaped while eliminating the side effects? i come from a country where agriculture is a valued industry and where domestic agriculture is considered important. on the other hand, the environment is particularly sensitive. finland, for example, has nearly 200,000 lakes, hundreds of thousands of other water bodies, and one of the most polluted seas in the world. water pollution is a huge environmental problem, and pesticides are part of it. the uniformity is challenging and it is therefore right that the directive has taken account of the differences between member states. it is clear that we need certain eu-wide standards, but the means used in finland cannot be the same as those used in luxembourg, for example. it is therefore important, both from a rational and environmental point of view, that we focus on the objectives and leave the means to the member states. a good example of this is the so-called buffer zones, which undoubtedly play a major role in the protection of the aquatic environment. i am convinced that the buffer zones, as proposed by the commission, are the right approach. if we now define precise metric limits on the basis of the one size fits all principle, there is a real danger that many countries will be left with a hole in the ground. or rather, the substances that end up in the well would not be tackled flexibly and effectively enough.
in writing. – we all know that mr corbett’s report on the rules of procedure concerning verbatim reports is a sensitive issue. do we want all speeches translated into all languages or is an audiovisual record in all languages accessible immediately through the internet enough? i will not repeat the arguments put forward by mr corbett, who i support in this issue. i would just like to emphasise that we are in the heart of multilingualism. the question is how we best endorse this core principle of the union. the options are spending at least eur 10 million a year on translations that practically nobody reads, or spending that same amount on more important and urgent translations pending. needless to say, i opt for the latter. therefore i support mr corbett’s approach.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, crude oil is more expensive than ever. it also affects the price of other fossil fuels. all energy is becoming more expensive, with four-fifths of the eu's total energy consumption being based on fossil fuels. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources. the hopes and dreams expressed in the committee's report after the vote on the main options relate to ccs technology and nuclear power. however, there is no guarantee that liquefied carbon dioxide can be safely stored indefinitely. there is no sign of investments in transport infrastructure in the hydrogen economy, let alone the use of electric cars produced with zero-carbon electricity, as called for in the report. it takes half a century to tame nuclear fusion. overall, the commission's proposal to produce 20% of the eu's energy from renewable fuels by 2020 is not credible. this is not possible, at least not with renewable fuels produced in the eu's own territory or in the large eu member states. the report before us is overly optimistic, because it includes the idea of continuing to use fossil fuels without any real alternatives, without any constraints. fossil fuels are not abandoned until they are forced to. we will face such a constraint when natural resources run out before 2020, but it will not be the result of deliberate action by eu member states or eu declarations. it requires both a new will and, along with beautiful words and righteous wishes, real actions that challenge our present way of life. the electricity pricing system, whereby wholesale electricity prices are determined on electricity exchanges, also needs to be reassessed. the price is always determined by the electricity produced at the highest production costs and also by the electricity produced with the highest emission allowances. this price is paid to all producers. unfortunately, there is no guarantee that the companies will use the excess profits they make to fund energy research, since the spirit of the age is that they distribute their profits as dividends to their owners. emissions trading also increases the profits of electricity companies instead of reducing emissions.
mr president, commissioner, the reul report raises an important question about the direction europe and the world are taking in terms of energy. the conflicts continue. how long can we contain them? there is no quick alternative to fossil energy under the current circumstances, not even if we were to save, as we could save considerably more energy. oil accounts for about 37%, gas 24%, and coal 16%. fossil fuels account for as much as 77 percent of our energy. we know that the international energy agency is forecasting that world energy consumption will increase by more than one and a half percent a year. fossil energy consumption is expected to increase even more, since large developing countries are not very reliant on wind power. developing countries account for 70% of the increase in energy consumption, and china alone for 30%. so the fossil record is running out and concentrated in fewer and fewer hands. it'll take decades to change the energy system. we're running out of time. it's a race. if we cannot organise environmental and energy issues, we cannot guarantee peace. to name a few areas of action, we need to make an effort in research, product development and new technologies, and we also need to change our own behaviour. we are not even doing research in europe, even though we are marching towards higher dependency, higher prices and conflicts. i have just heard that the united states spends five times as much on environmental research as the union. what is it that makes the lisbon knowledge-based economy work like this? finally, energy has a social dimension. prices have gone up by 50 percent in just a few years.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, sometimes, in this chamber, we cannot really see the political differences between groups, but, on this issue, the difference is very visible, because i could not disagree more with the rapporteur on some of the points she just mentioned. i respect the work she has done on this report, but on this issue we have totally different views on what should be done by the commission. first of all, this report is about the lisbon strategy and what we should do to restore europe’s global competitiveness. this is really the only way to guarantee european welfare and the welfare of our citizens. without taxation, this is impossible. taxation has a crucial role to play in this respect, in bringing competitiveness to europe. we must remember that overall tax levels in europe are still above the oecd average. in order to achieve a lower level of taxation in europe, we need to create an environment conducive to investment. we need more investments, more growth, and more, flourishing businesses in europe. healthy tax competition has a beneficial role in this respect. this is an economic, market-based control mechanism against rampant political decisions. if we have fruitful tax competition in europe, governments cannot put obstacles in the way of the single market. that is what we want: a genuine single market without tax-made obstacles. on the other hand, there is no evidence that fruitful tax competition would erode tax bases. the total tax revenue has remained remarkably stable, thanks to increased economic activity. however, the existence of 27 different tax regimes creates problems, particularly for european smes, which are so important to this growth. according to a 2004 ec taxation survey, compliance for small smes costs about 2.6% of their sales and 31% of taxes paid. so, one third of all the tax goes to compliance. the high proportionate amount of tax compliance for small companies is a big obstacle, and that is why we need to do our best to call for cross-border loss relief, simplified customs procedures, one-stop-shop schemes for vat, home states taxation pilot projects and so on. we support everything that the commission has done in this respect. finally, industry wishes to see a well-managed and simple tax administration system. we need to resolve the problems of transfer pricing, loss offsetting eu-wide and avoiding double taxation, and to lower our compliance costs. we welcome the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) proposal, and the fact that the commission is stable and brings us the proposal on ccctb, because loss-relief is only a temporary thing. in the end, we need a consolidated corporate tax base.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, our group supports the views of the rapporteur, mr wagenknecht, on this matter, even if they are contrary to the views of the majority in the committee. the european union will not be the world's leading information and technology-based economic area in 2010. however, the failure to achieve the lisbon strategy objective is not due to tax systems that have been continuously reformed in a way that favours large companies. transfer pricing and the choice of the place of redemption of capital enable them to avoid taxes. they are aided by tax havens and tax havens in the eu member states, whose activities are a stain on eu morality. the rapporteur argues that the commission does not address the impact of taxation on income distribution in its communication. the income tax system applied by some member states favours high-income citizens, while progressive income taxation promotes social equality. the lisbon strategy must not be implemented in a way that reduces the financial base of the welfare state and is unfair.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, the members of the committee on budgets and the coordinators for the fact that we have reached a good compromise and that the atmosphere was very positive. the secretary-general of the parliament was also very open and cooperative in drawing up the budget. it is a good start for future cooperation between the administration and the committee on budgets. i would like to begin by saying that this system of two bodies deciding on the budget, namely the bureau and the committee on budgets, cannot continue in the future. it is not the right way of doing things for the bureau to develop all kinds of new ideas and new projects. then the budget committee will either rubber-stamp and approve the funds or be the bad boy or bad girl who cuts the funds. as in this case, the group presidents have made substantial new additions, which would have already exceeded the famous 20% threshold agreed jointly. i hope that the president of the committee will be heard on this point, because he has the right idea of how this process should be concluded in the right way in order to achieve concrete, appropriate results. these matters cannot be decided in two places, but it is better that they be decided in one place. when parliament's budget was first drawn up, the administration and the bureau took the right initiative, taking as a basis the threshold of less than 20%. the group presidents then made additions to the political rules. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. of course, this is never easy, but it must be said that we did not make any real savings or cuts, but we were simply trying to maintain discipline for new additions so that the budget would not grow too much. this is of course an important matter, because we are using taxpayers' money. we have to think from the taxpayers' point of view about what projects we are implementing and which ones are acceptable. above all, we must concentrate on the essential work for which we have been chosen here. this is a legislative body and therefore we should not carry out projects which are not part of the actual legislative work. i can, however, be pleased with this joint compromise, where parliament's growth is just under 4%. it is reasonable, and yet many projects have been included which colleagues have wanted. i would like to mention a few of these projects, starting with the information policy, which is of the utmost importance. there's an additional nine million euros in the reserve that will go to the new web tv after the prototype is approved. this idea of web television as a technical information channel is an acceptable idea, but it should not be implemented in the way it is now being proposed. the political groups and members are not involved in the supervision of the body, nor in its day-to-day work. the political truth that people want to find is not in the administration, but in the political groups and members. i have found it very difficult to understand this idea, which has been proposed by the left, that politics must be eliminated from politics and that information about parliament can only be given by the administration and not by members or political groups. this is an unconscionable concentration of information policy on the administration, and it leaves us, who have been democratically elected here, out of the information. the second idea related to this subject was the local media, which the plenary decided just before the holidays to give members a little more money to allow them to invite representatives of the local media to follow what is happening in parliament and to interview members. the budget committee voted to reject this money. i also do not understand the hostility on the left towards small local media, because they allow us to get as close as possible to the ordinary people. but now we voted this money down in the committee on budgets by a majority, and we members cannot spend more money on inviting the local media here. thirdly, i would like to mention the information agencies. each member state has its own information office, which is a good thing, but why buy the most expensive and centrally located buildings? why can't we buy a little cheaper buildings a little further away and use those funds for human resources? we need more people to go to work, to school and to school to tell people what is being done in parliament and why. the best way to influence people is to go to people, not to buy expensive walls. these funds could also be put to better use. as regards the general policy on housing, i would like all the institutions to work together to create a common organisation to consider when and where to build and when and from where to buy property, so that we do not make decisions without knowing each other and artificially raising property prices. i would also like to comment on the resolution on the proposal to reduce the number of sessions in strasbourg. this may be an eternal conversation, but it has to be held long enough for something to be accomplished. we must also set an example in reducing emissions. we cannot waste 200 million euros a year of taxpayers' money. we must show the citizens that the eu has grown and changed, and that this too needs to change. i have not found any good explanation for why this row should continue. i therefore hope that the matter will be put to the vote so that parliament can consult the council and so that this change can take place. i would like to thank the coordinators and the members of the committee on budgets once again for the compromise and i hope that this compromise will be maintained here on thursday when the vote is taken and that the figures in question will remain as we have agreed together.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, the 2008 budget of the european union is the second budget of this programming period. when the existing financial frameworks were adopted, special emphasis was placed on strengthening competitiveness and cohesion to promote growth and employment. the commission's preliminary draft budget was eur 129.2 billion for commitments and eur 121.6 billion for payments. in its draft budget, the council cut commitments by eur 128.4 billion and payments by eur 119.4 billion, i.e. eur 10.3 billion below the extremely tight financial framework. the council's draft budget has already raised questions. in title 1: sustainable growth and employment, payment appropriations were cut by a total of eur 1 046 million, despite the fact that this was a key priority of budgetary policy. in the autumn, parliament also received a letter of amendment from the commission proposing an increase of eur 262 million for external actions. the commission also proposed revising the financial framework to ensure that the galileo positioning system and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) are adequately funded for the period 2008-13. the proposal was in line with the resolution adopted by parliament on 20 june and the first reading of the eit legislation. it is on these grounds that the committee on budgets has drawn up its own proposal, which is now before us. its main content is as follows: the absolute focus of the budget is heading one: sustainable growth and employment. commitment appropriations have been added to the research and training appropriations under the lisbon strategy and to the trans-european networks. title 1a also covers the financing of the galileo navigation system. the european parliament warned that galileo was underfunded when preparing the multiannual financial framework. it now has a deficit of eur 2.4 billion because private industry does not want to participate in the project, as it has not done in the united states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. this must be decided in the course of the budgetary procedure. for this reason, the budget proposal excludes the appropriations for galileo and the eit from the budget in the form of a 'satellite' proposal, which is subject to approval of the commission's proposal for a revision of the multiannual financial framework. if this does not happen, the galileo project will fail and the eit will also have difficulty in obtaining funding. it is unnecessary to continue funding galileo if the council has no real desire to fund it to the end. the payment appropriations for title 1b of the structural and cohesion funds have been substantially increased because the outstanding commitments of the funds, the rals, are alarmingly high, at over eur 95 billion. the european parliament and the council issued a joint declaration in the summer on the slow pace of adoption of operational programmes by the commission. at present, 63% of the programmes of the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund, 83% of the programmes of the european social fund and 75% of the rural development programmes are still pending, even though the first year of the programme is already coming to an end. this slowness of administration is a serious threat to the eu's structural and cohesion policy and in particular to the reconstruction of the new member states, as the current financial framework is a huge project for the reconstruction of europe, larger than the marshall project in the post-world war ii era. the new member states are allocated eur 22.1 billion for structural measures and eur 5.3 billion for rural development in this draft budget alone. the committee on budgets therefore proposes to contribute to the appropriations for the commission's administrative expenditure which would be released when the programmes are adopted, since they must be adopted in a hurry. the second major set of problems relates to heading 4: the eu as an international actor. the initial draft budget was clearly under-estimated, which led the commission to propose in its letter of amendment eur 120 million for kosovo and eur 142 million for palestine. the council also proposed increases totalling eur 260 million for the same regions. the committee on budgets approved the commission's approach but added a further eur 10 million for both kosovo and palestine. in addition, in order to defend parliament's own priorities, the committee drew up a report on the so-called 'star' amendment. it has agreed to the cut, eur 40 million, which would otherwise have to be made to the common foreign and security policy, because the addendum proposed by the council is clearly a foregone conclusion and would jeopardise parliament's priorities. the asteriks proposal also includes the additions requested by the committee on foreign affairs, in particular for palestine and kosovo, totalling eur 40 million, and a smaller correction, eur 7 million, for the global health fund and certain other budget lines. this amendment can be accepted if the council agrees to use the flexibility instrument. regarding the agencies, the committee returned the approximately eur 32 million in cuts made by the council and the staff cuts. we've seen that the cooperation has gone relatively well. the most significant change was the increase of eur 30 million in the budget of the frontex border agency. the european parliament has a key role to play in the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the theme of this budget is budget for results. the budget aims to promote both activity-based budgeting and activity-based governance. to this end, eur 49 million of the commission's general administrative expenditure has been set aside in a reserve to be released when the commission presents the studies and reports requested by parliament on the development of functional administration, clarification of staff responsibilities and future direction of staff numbers. the declaration on executive agencies, which parliament adopted in the course of the conciliation procedure, is also linked to this. it states that each new proposal must include a cost-benefit analysis compared to a situation where the actions would be managed by the commission. in addition, a clear division of responsibilities between the agency and the commission and an explanation of the way in which the commission is accountable for the functioning of the agency and the use of funds must be provided. we know of warning examples from history, from the so-called technical assistance offices. the total amount of the draft budget now before us is eur 129 680 million, which is eur 2 623 million less than the multiannual financial framework. the payment appropriations are eur 124 194 million, which corresponds to 0.99% of the gross national income of the member states. the budgetary committee has been very disciplined in preparing this proposal for the european parliament, since it is €5 300 million below the financial framework. the draft budget has been prepared in a spirit of great unanimity and excellent cooperation. i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr reimer böge, for his excellent leadership, as well as the coordinators and shadow rapporteurs of all the political groups. they have shown remarkable flexibility and cooperation. i would also like to thank the commission, and in particular commissioner grybaus' committee, for their positive attitude, and the portuguese presidency for its constructive assessment and cooperation in the trialogue and conciliation. finally, i would like to express my appreciation and gratitude for the enormous work done by the secretariat of the committee on budgets and by the budgetary administrators of my group and those of the other political groups. i now leave the 2008 budget to the plenary.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, there seems to be a wide range of opinions in all the groups. some are happy with the council's tight budgetary line, while others see it as an obstacle to achieving all that is good and beautiful. the fact is that the council's proposal for the final budget is exceptionally low in relation to total national income and that parliament's proposal also represents an exceptionally low level of budgetary expenditure. our group is not satisfied that the draft budget is increasing the military nature of the union. the militarization of the union is also one of the reasons why our group cannot support the new constitutional proposal adopted last week. the constitution, like the draft budget for next year, does not establish the social dimension of the union. we are used to the idea that the commission never fully implements the eu budget and the member states are used to the idea that they are returned annually so-called own resources. this is due to the delays in the rals for the structural and cohesion funds programmes this year and next. the rapporteur, mr virrankoski, hastened the approval procedures for the programmes with good reason. our group considers it justified to revise the interinstitutional agreements as regards the new expenditure of galileo and the eit. the money is not enough in the budgetary frameworks, but the membership must bring new money into the union for them. the bureau of parliament is not as disciplined in its budgetary objectives as the committee on budgets. it always seeks to use 20% of the eu's administrative costs, even if there are no justified uses for the money. it is not the pöttering monument, the creation of a museum of the short history of the eu or the conversion of the parliament's premises into spa facilities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the control of the use of funds by the european parliament in accordance with the best practices of eu budgetary control. as rapporteurs, my compatriots kyösti virrankoski and ville itälä have sought to achieve a balanced outcome.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr itälje and mr virrankoski, for their excellent work. i am pleased that the committee on budgets has approved two pilot projects relating to the protection of the baltic sea. i hope that the plenary will also give its support to these pilot projects. it is time to pay more attention to the baltic sea. after all, after the 2004 enlargement, it is an inland sea of the eu, but at the same time it is one of the sickest and most polluted seas in the world, which is a disgrace to the eu. one of these pilot projects concerns the reduction of the discharge of hazardous waste into the baltic sea and the remediation of the oxygen deficit in the deep sea. the second concerns the reduction of sulphur dioxide emissions from shipping through emissions trading. if this experiment is successful, sulphur dioxide emissions trading could become a viable way of reducing sulphur dioxide emissions in all eu marine areas, thus cleaning up the air we all breathe in europe in the future. i therefore hope that the plenary will support these initiatives.
i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr kyösti virrankoske, for the excellent preparation of the budget. the rapporteur has listened to the various parties and has also taken the proposals of the committee on regional development very seriously. the rapporteur, mr itälä, has also done a very good job. it is important that the appropriations for regional development be maintained at an adequate level. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that regional policy practices and governance are simplified and clarified both within the union and in the member states, so that all the funds allocated to regional development can be used more efficiently and effectively in the member states to reduce regional disparities and to implement the lisbon strategy. the bureaucracy that plagues the union also hinders the implementation of regional policy. the first year of the new programming period is almost over and a large part of the programmes is still pending. this is a serious problem, as the rapporteur has pointed out. the commission and the member states have been slow to implement the projects, and the first year of the programming period will be a problematic gap year. the commission must adopt the remaining programmes without delay in order to ensure that the appropriations in the budget are used efficiently and effectively and that the new programmes are put into practice.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on the report on virrankoski and italya. i know both men and i know that they are committed to openness and transparency and want to be part of building the european union's economy on a sustainable basis, as they should. it is good to keep expenses in check and to include the requirements of reasonableness. i would like to focus briefly on a few issues, starting with research and innovation. i know that it is largely a matter for the national states, but the european union must nevertheless remember its own commitments, such as the lisbon strategy, and stick to them, so that we can also allocate funds in the budget to research and innovation, thereby creating new added value for the european region. i am very pleased about this baltic edition. i believe it came through the speakers. it is good to note the state of the baltic sea, and these two pilot projects are a good start. it is true that much more effort is needed, but this is a good place to start. thirdly, it is important to keep in mind the principles of sustainable development and the values of the union when drawing up the budget. this is the case, for example, when we send money to third countries and when we are involved in various projects, including in the palestinian autonomous region. we must ensure that the funds are used correctly and that they are not used for work that is contrary to democracy, human rights and freedom of expression, which are the values of the union. the use of money and the values of the union must always go hand in hand.
mr president, mr commissioner, i understand that you have been a trade union leader in your own country and that trade union activities are of interest to you, perhaps because of your own background. i did not receive a precise answer to the question: how many of these unionised workers are currently employed by the commission in all the unions combined? one more question on this subject. it is an urban legend that the commission would pay workers during a strike. have the unions been able to negotiate a solution whereby if they go on strike they will be paid for the duration of the strike?
mr president, in addition to smokers, millions of european bystanders are exposed to the dangers of tobacco. the creation of a smoke-free europe and the prevention of secondhand smoke are essential objectives of the union's environmental and public health policy. member states are committed to this objective also under international law, as all member states of the union except italy and the czech republic have recognised in the who framework convention on tobacco control the protection of citizens from tobacco smoke as a fundamental right. this right must be effectively protected. the commission has put forward a number of options, but maintaining the status quo is not a viable option. voluntary schemes have not succeeded in protecting europeans from tobacco smoke. i would like to thank the rapporteur for advocating binding legislative measures as the most effective way of combating this problem. we must protect two groups in particular, children and young people and workers. but you can't accept any rules. we must remain within the limits of the rationality that the eu's powers give us. it is one thing to support a ban on the sale of tobacco products to persons under 18 years of age throughout the eu, but quite another to support a restriction on smoking in the presence of minors in private transport. i would rather appeal to the conscience and judgment of the parents in this matter. do not force your children to breathe deadly air. instead, legislators should be careful not to aim for legislation that is almost impossible to control. the importance of preventive work and various campaigns should also be emphasised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i also want to highlight the responsibility of the manufacturer. the tobacco products directive should be amended to include the application of manufacturer's liability in the financing of healthcare costs arising from tobacco consumption. smoking is not a solution for the smoker alone, because the hundreds of billions of euros that tobacco consumption costs society are also borne by the majority of non-smokers. blaming does not help anyone and is not only bad policy, but it must be possible to establish the facts. smoking costs too much, it costs lives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways of looking at eu-russia relations. we look at them through problems or through opportunities. as we know, both are plentiful at the moment. in lisbon last week, eu leaders took a step towards a more unified foreign policy. couldn't russian politics be the first place to put both sides, including russia, on the same page? the partnership and cooperation agreement should be renewed, and we know that. in the northern dimension, we have made progress on the baltic sea, but we must move on to new areas. there are road maps, but there are few people on the road. we have supported russia's accession to the wto. we should make a deal. the commissioner said that the commission had not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are all connected to each other through energy, but the dependence is mutual. one-way exports are dependencies, not just imports. so, we should stop this school of hard knocks with russia. unfortunately, this situation has been going on for a long time, but i welcome the new leader of poland, who wanted to improve relations with russia, and also with germany. russia, of course, is more problematic. the negotiations must also produce results in the area of civil rights, and not just in the area of goods. i would ask the council to bring up the wood fires at the summit. what about russia's new law or practice that does not extradite a suspected criminal to the country where the crime was committed for questioning? this is a special procedure. in other words, a criminal who commits a crime in another member state will be able to go to russia for protection.
mr president, the change we would propose is that parliament, at this stage, ‘notes’ rather than ‘welcomes’ that the commission has forwarded a communication on loss relief, as work on the report on that topic is in progress in the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
mr president, first of all i should like to express my satisfaction with this report. it is very good that we are taking a clear stand against passive smoking. i voted in favour of this report because it is high time that action was taken at european union level to prevent people from being directly exposed to the dangers of tobacco smoke. as we have heard before, 650,000 people die every year from the effects of tobacco. we must act on this matter. although i support the proposal, i know that it is difficult to implement and to implement it everywhere. article 11 contains the idea that smoking in private cars with underage children should be banned throughout the eu. this is a good objective, but it is necessary to consider how it could be controlled. smoking cessation is an objective we must pursue, but in future we must pay more attention to the fact that these measures must be reasonable and that they can be monitored.
mr president, two weeks ago arat dink, son of hrant dink, and the publisher sarkis seropian were sentenced to one year in prison under article 301, in other words for defaming turkishness. what was their crime? their newspaper argos published a story over a year ago, before the murder of hrant dink, that hrant dink had stated in an interview with reuters that he called the 1915 murders a genocide. so the paper just reported this, that's all. i therefore consider it necessary to vote in favour of our resolution calling on turkey to recognise the armenian genocide. i say this as a friend who respects turkey. turkey should understand that the claim is not specifically directed against it. it is the eu's way of working towards a better society, one that avoids the horrors of history. the spirit of protecting national identity by criminal law, of constantly invoking article 301 and of banning state errors, is a strong counter to this practice. one of the fundamental principles of europeanism is to look history in the eye and to deal with it. the armenian genocide is a historical fact. the european parliament has already called on turkey to recognise it in its resolution on the opening of negotiations.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jelko kacin, for a thorough and good report. the report highlights the difficult problems that plague eu-serbia relations, but also highlights the many positive aspects of serbia's development. i would like to emphasise the importance of natural interaction in the development of relations between the eu and serbia. it is important to improve the opportunities for serbian young people to travel abroad through student exchange and cultural programmes. this has been the case with many countries, for example in the erasmus mundus and leonardo programmes. the visa agreement with serbia also contributes to natural interaction. the entry into force of the agreement by the end of the year must be ensured, while speeding up visa processing and developing support measures to increase travel opportunities, especially for young people and professionals. finally, i would like to say that the european agency for reconstruction has also fulfilled its role in serbia. its work is already nearing completion and its tasks can be transferred to commission departments, with emphasis on support for the development of the administration and the judiciary. this will help serbia and the other countries in the region to move closer to the european union.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr martens, for his important report. it is clear to the commission that the parliamentary dimension must now be integrated into the process of drawing up the eu's common strategy for africa. the commission's general policy has unfortunately been to ignore not only the other side, but also parliament, in the preparation of the 2005 eu africa strategy. on the other hand, the report does well to highlight a number of key content issues and strategy. first, it is clear from history that universal human rights require universal protection to be realized. it is therefore essential that the eu's african peace and security strategy includes a perspective that recognises and promotes the concept of the responsibility to protect. we have a responsibility to protect, and there must be a debate within the eu about this. secondly, as the report commendably calls for, climate change must be placed at the very heart of the strategy. water, its quality and its availability, is rising alongside energy as a major political problem, with africa as the first victim. however, i would like to remind you that the most important environmental problems in africa so far are erosion and overgrazing. climate change is naturally making things worse. adaptation and support measures are needed. africa is also a natural partner for the eu in the fight against climate change in international fora. thirdly, i would stress the importance of small businesses and local entrepreneurship as a prerequisite for sustainable and genuine economic development in africa. we should direct our actions to support it. only the local people themselves can bring africa back to life.
for the alde group mr president, mr vice-president of the commission margot wallström, mr european ombudsman nikiforos diamandouros, and other distinguished colleagues. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. the role of the european ombudsman has become increasingly important for the citizens of the european union over the years. the ombudsman's role will become even more important with the entry into force of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. this means that in future even more care will have to be taken to ensure that the ombudsman has adequate resources for his work and that his code of conduct is modern. the commissioner margot wallström drew attention to the need for transparency. i would hope that now that the statute of the european ombudsman is being amended, the words of the commission representative, promoting transparency and promoting the commission to provide the necessary information, would come true, because only actions count, not words. the ombudsman's annual report and its summary are a good example of how our work should be presented to the public. the narrative is clear, concise, and penetrating. transparency is the key to european democracy and its most important building block. article 41 of the charter provides that every citizen has the right to have his or her case dealt with impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions and bodies of the union. it has been said many times and it is binding on all the institutions of the european union and, of course, on the ombudsman. i would therefore like to stress that these resources must be safeguarded in such a way that citizens do not have to wait for years for decisions on matters which concern them, because the waiting for decisions is difficult. finally, i would like to thank the ombudsman for his work and wish him the best of success in this very challenging task. it may not always be appreciated enough, since the elite are better able to exercise basic rights than the ordinary citizens.
mr president, before the beginning of the vote, i want to make the following statement. as you know, the committee on budgets voted on more than 1 600 amendments to the 2008 draft budget. inevitably, there are a small number of technical adjustments that i hereby request to be put to the vote in plenary. after the vote, the committee on budgets issued a request to retable the following four amendments: amendment 990: + eur 1.53m on line 16 03 04, commitment appropriations only;amendment 24: on line 15 05 55, commitment appropriations only, reserve and remarks as in amendment 938;amendment 989: + eur 1 million on line 16 03 02, commitment appropriations, and + eur 1 million in payment appropriations;amendment 1043: + eur 1 million on line 15 06 06, commitment appropriations, and + eur 1 million in payment appropriations, plus additional remarks from amendment 25, with the figure eur 1 million instead of eur 1.5 million. these technical changes and specifications were dealt with and approved at the meeting of committee on budgets of 11 october 2007. as regards frontex, a technical error was identified subsequent to the vote in committee concerning the remarks. the correct modification to the remarks is contained in amendment 1133, which is annexed to the voting list. finally, the remarks adopted in amendment 634 do not appear in amendments 1018 on budget line 15 02 02 05; 934 on budget line 09 06 01; 938 on budget line 15 05 55, and 940 on budget line 17 02 02. and, on budget line 09 03 03, the right figure for commitment appropriations should be 5 and payment appropriations 4.85. i ask the sittings service to make the necessary corrections in the minutes. on top of that, we held a discussion at the coordinators’ meeting yesterday and, according to their decisions, i recommend rejecting amendment 752 and voting in favour of amendment 610 on line 16 02 02 (multimedia actions), but taking the reserve from amendment 752, and rejecting amendment 1044 and voting in favour of amendment 32 on line 16 02 03.
as for amendment no 878, mr president, it is part of the pilot projects and has been adopted. there was a great deal of agreement in the committee that we should add the additions in amendment no 822 to its explanatory statement. otherwise they are identical, but amendment no 822 has been slightly supplemented by the reasoning of the previous amendment, and i suggest that we could vote on amendment no 822 in the case of the reasoning alone.
mr president, i want to propose that we vote only on reserves, and i am in favour of lifting the reserve, because we have got all the information for which we have asked.
mr president, line 15 05 55 is, i think, covered by my earlier statement, so we do not have to vote on it.
mr president, in my statement i said ‘reserve and remarks as in amendment 938’.
mr president, this is also covered by my earlier statement.
mr president, concerning the line 16 02 02, i recommend rejection of amendment 752 and approval of amendment 610, but that we take over the reserve from amendment 752. i would therefore ask that we vote first on amendment 610, and then on the reserve from amendment 752.
rapporteur. – mr president, i think this is covered by my earlier statement.
rapporteur. – mr president, before starting to vote on the budgetary amendments, i would like to inform you of a limited number of technical adjustments that need to be made. first, concerning section i, in amendment 1094, only the budget line 20 26 will be voted on. concerning chapter 101, plenary should vote only on the final amount in amendment 1004, which is eur 5 million. concerning sections vi and vii: in amendment 1013, the second and third paragraphs of the justification to the amendment should replace the respective paragraphs in the justification in amendment 1001, and the second paragraph in amendments 986, 1007 and 999.
in writing. mr president, i would first like to thank the honourable members for their support in bringing pakistan up in the urgent resolution. it is the popular orientation of democratic forces and the clear emphasis on human rights rather than the army that are the strongest obstacles to the rise to power of radical groups. that is why they need our support now, as do religious minorities. experience in human rights work shows that religious freedom is an important indicator of the human rights situation, a kind of litmus test. the problems are first seen in the position of religious groups, in the lack of freedom of speech and freedom of assembly. the state of democracy and the position of minorities are correlated: where citizens have poor opportunities to participate, minorities also suffer. the abuse of the blasphemy law against religious minorities is a particular problem in pakistan. it should be about protecting religious values, not actively persecuting those who do not believe. although the law does not specifically target specific religious groups, the practice is different: the proportion of death sentences handed down is higher for minorities. legal reform is necessary. only democracy can provide that. the regrettable decision of musharraf to cling to his position as commander-in-chief of the armed forces has marked and weakened the social development of pakistan in recent years. the gradual militarization of society has been regrettable. on the other hand, we express our support for pakistan in its fight against the taliban. we stand in solidarity with the people of pakistan who were affected by last week's devastating bombing. i was personally acquainted with the political situation in pakistan last month. i had the privilege of meeting representatives of the various parties, senators and parliamentarians. however, i would like to mention in particular the all pakistan minorities alliance, whose significant work as an advocate for many minority groups deserves the attention and support of the outside world.
for the alde group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pál schmitt, for this report. i must say that it is a very good and topical subject. it's about physical education, the place of sports in schools. looking back on this 20 or 30 years ago, we know as europeans that this is one of the areas of school education that we have neglected. it is seen throughout europe as a collapse of the universe. it also manifests itself in various forms of obesity, including a marked increase in obesity. on the other hand, diabetes is on the rise. cardiovascular disease is on the rise. mental health problems have also increased. it can also be said, as has already been said here and as was said earlier by mavrommatis, a man from ancient greece, that in antiquity it was also said that a healthy soul in a healthy body is the sum of all things, and we should try to achieve this again in europe. we should also understand that exercise is very significant and important for the overall well-being of the human being. mr president, we live in what is called the information society in europe, but i wish there were more to the information society. it could be a civilized society, where physical culture and physical exercise are also taken into account. in finland, olympic champion tapio korjus is currently running a physical education project to promote the idea that healthy exercise contributes to overall well-being. it is safe to say that there are many results to be expected on that front. the key issue, however, is teacher training and schools, so that the emphasis in teacher training is indeed on physical education and this is also required of teachers, as many children in the most remote areas are in particular difficulty. i really hope, mr president, that there will be more physical education, that schools and sports organisations will be able to find each other better, and that every child and young person will be able to experience the joys of physical culture in their own lives and thus build their own future.
for the verts/ale group mr president, i thank the rapporteur for the seriousness with which he has dealt with this matter, even though my group disagrees with him on many points. the greens consider the euratom treaty as a whole to be outdated, because it unjustifiably favours nuclear power at the expense of other, safer forms of energy. however, we could accept the rules of the euratom supply agency if they met three conditions: transparency, self-financing and independence of control. but unfortunately, that is not the case. first, the ppc is financed by taxpayers' money. this means hidden subsidies for nuclear power. article 54 of the euratom treaty allows the agency to raise funds by means of a levy collected in connection with the sale of nuclear material. the greens believe that this self-financing should be made compulsory. secondly, the independence of the control should be guaranteed. this proposal would lead to dg tren being both a promoter and a regulator of nuclear energy, which is not right. especially since, at international level, the international atomic energy agency has a contradictory role as a watchdog of nuclear safety and a promoter of nuclear power. thirdly, the structure of the advisory committee of the procurement centre is distorted and it has a disproportionate share of nuclear power stations, which is further aggravated by the amendment adopted by the itre committee. unfortunately, because of these shortcomings, we cannot support this motion.
mr president, action to combat climate change is urgent and, as has been said here, all sectors emitting greenhouse gases must contribute to it. aviation must not remain a free-floating industry. greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly. this is important to remember when so many times it is said that aviation is responsible for only two or three percent of greenhouse gas emissions. as noted, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation have increased by as much as half since 1990. the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading scheme is a proposal from the european union. the aim is to create a global system in the longer term, in which air transport also shares the burden. the weaknesses of the general emissions trading directive could now be exploited to increase the share of auctions in the initial allocation of allowances. the ships, as well as the whole system, should be incentivised to reduce emissions by replacing short flights with train journeys, and this is particularly appropriate for areas with a dense urban network and a high population density. on the contrary, we have problems in areas with fewer inhabitants and with long distances to the centres, and it is important that the european system takes account of the situation of the outermost regions in an equal way.
mr president, i guess i come from one of those ultra-peripheral regions, in this case called finland. if i was not able to fly here, it would probably take me two days to get here. this is not by bike: it is by boat, car and train. that is just by way of introduction. i think there are really six points here, and i would like to focus on one – but i will go through all six. point number one: entry into force – i would go for the epp-ed compromise, in other words, 2011. caps on emission rights: for me, 95%. reference, yes, for me: 2005-2007; auction, for me: 25%; profits: partly back to the airlines, and then partly to other good climate change causes. but for me the big issue is number 6: the allocation basis; in other words, atk versus rtk. now, i realise that this is a difficult issue for many, but for me it is not an environmental issue in that sense. really, the cap has already been set. what we are talking about with atk and rtk is the allocation between the different airlines. neither system is perfect, but we cannot be in a situation where airlines coming from the more peripheral areas will be punished and unequally treated in comparison to those airlines which might be based in frankfurt, berlin, london, brussels or paris. train is not an option for us: it is that simple. the way in which climate change is going, i am afraid the only place where we are going to have snow in the winter in the future is going to be lapland. i know that those flights might be full going up there, but they may not always be full coming down, so we have to be very careful that we do not make this into a race to the bottom. so i would urge all of my friends and colleagues tomorrow to vote on atk rather than rtk. it is a life and death issue for the peripheral areas, but i know it is not a life and death issue for those coming from the middle.
in writing. we are embarking on a unique system, with the creation of an air transport climate instrument. there are risk factors involved in aviation emissions trading and i would urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to take note of a few important points. while we are rightly concerned about the growing emissions from aviation, aviation itself is the future - even essential for the environment. for example, the mips study, which is highly regarded and takes account of the overall environmental burden, shows that air transport has its merits and is seen as the solution for the future. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of passengers and to improve the safety of passengers. that is why, when we are making compromises, i wanted the revenue from the emissions trading to be directed specifically to research and development in aviation. if the increase in emissions is a real concern, transport resources should be devoted specifically to the development of zero-emission transport. i hope the council also understands the importance of this idea. on the other hand, the directive should also ensure that the conditions for fair competition in the emissions trading system exist in the outermost regions of the union. this is particularly evident in the allocation of non-auction rights. the bat-ael based on the maximum capacity of the aircraft would best ensure the fairness of the emissions trading and would ultimately be better for the climate. this is because a model where non-auctioning allowances are allocated according to the quantities of goods and people transported would encourage the use of connecting flights and passenger volumes to fly through large cities. the system designed to protect the climate should specifically encourage ticket prices to be determined more closely by actual flight kilometres. now, a flight that is many times longer and thus puts more pressure on the atmosphere, and that also makes a stopover, is cheaper. it doesn't make any sense for the environment.
mr president, the importance of appropriate accounting standards cannot be exaggerated. in today’s world there is a growing need for clear, comparable and sufficient information for investors as well as facilitating business by reducing compliance costs. therefore, i agree with my colleagues on the importance of prudence in the question. decisions should not be taken lightly, and i really think that the views of all colleagues who have mentioned timely impact assessment as an important tool to find balanced solutions and make sure that all stakeholders and their opinions are considered are very important. parliament should, of course, be kept duly informed. of equal importance is to ensure that the easb governance system is reviewed and adjusted so that regulatory authorities can support its standard-setting process and its result. it is, after all, the only body we have to do a cross-border account standards setting process. however, while the process has not been perfect, we must not let this delay our work to close the gap between us and our economic partners. today’s world is much more interconnected, and it is in our interest to make it function as smoothly as possible, and compatible standards are vital to this end. within the transatlantic economic council, both sides are eager to make this work, and ifrs standards and financial reports are an important tool to find this mutual recognition of standards. for now, the iasb is the best way we have. european stakeholders must be involved and the functioning of the ifrs should be monitored. it can and should also be changed to correct possible mistakes, if we make mistakes. democracy, of course, takes time but sometimes it is needed to correct mistakes. many of my colleagues have mentioned that it was very important that parliament was able to raise some concerns and make improvements to the process.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to address the commission’s agenda, particularly in the economic sector, not only because this is the area where the committee on economic and monetary affairs’ interest mostly lies, but it is also of vital importance to the lisbon strategy. the commission must keep its active role in building a genuine single market for financial services. it is topical for a good reason. firstly, the recent financial turmoil has underlined the importance of sound financial regulation. secondly, the financial world is more and more intertwined. we must be able to build convergence with our main allies overseas. transatlantic market initiatives started a very important process which is especially critical to the capital markets. a few years ago a groundbreaking legislative process in the form of the lamfalussy procedure was successfully introduced. the lamfalussy procedure is the first attempt to shift widely to delegated legislation in the eu. even though the first experiences from this procedure are positive, it is crucial to keep on building trust between institutions. the working relations between the european parliament and the european commission in this process are very important. as for the follow-up, firstly, the lamfalussy procedure is basically a sound process that is welcomed by stakeholders. it is also in its early stages. it is developing all the time. therefore no overhaul is appropriate at this point, nor is it the wish of most stakeholders. rather we need targeted improvements – particularly level 3 committees – there is a lot of scope for improvement in their international cooperation, to challenge each other and explain. finally, i would like to say about tax-related issues that the commission should keep its active role. even though taxation might seem a bit difficult, and we all know that it is still beyond unanimity, we must be very courageous in putting forward action in this area. enhanced cooperation is a good innovation and the other items of the commission’s agenda in the field of tax are also very important.
mr president, i voted in favour of amendments nos 77, 81 and 82 to the liese report, which aim to ensure that airlines operating in the peripheral regions of europe can compete on a level playing field with those operating in central europe, but unfortunately the majority did not agree.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague mr liese for his excellent cooperation. one specific issue on which we sought to compromise was the allocation of auction revenues. i would have liked to have had all the revenue for air transport, but i am grateful that my views were at least partially taken into account. i take it as a starting point that air transport is also necessary for the environment, because its merits are clearly visible, for example, in the mips inspection. the second point is that the objective must be to achieve zero-emission aviation. that's why i've been pushing to channel revenue into aviation research and development. if we really consider the rapidly increasing emissions from aviation to be a problem, we must devote all our transport resources to directing research funds towards the development of zero-emission aviation. i hope that in future the council will bear this in mind. i would also like to repeat the same message that mr lehtinen has just presented.
in writing. mr president, we all know the importance of protecting the environment and combating climate change. however, we must act within the bounds of reason and, as decision-makers, we must see the bigger picture. i think that the majority of the environment committee in this parliament did not see the whole picture of this report in all its aspects. air transport emissions represent only 2% of the total emissions and should therefore be allocated to the total. so even if all air traffic were to stop, it would have little effect on global warming. in addition, it should be taken into account that many airlines have already made significant investments to improve the environmental performance of their fleets. i voted in favour of paragraphs 77, 81 and 82 in order to ensure that air transport can continue to operate in the most remote regions of europe. i don't see the point in concentrating air traffic to just a few major airports. the competitiveness of national airlines should not be reduced in the short term at the expense of low-cost airlines. i therefore agree with the speech made by mr lasse lehtinen.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'd like to join the congratulations. i wish the new schengen members well for having succeeded in bringing the artwork up to the standards of the schengen rules in such a short time. i would also like to congratulate portugal, which is a double congratulation. portugal was the first to propose 'sis i for all'. now, during its presidency, portugal has had the ability and the energy to push through the evaluation process. we have heard here what a historic advance this is. the re-unification of europe in this form, with free movement, is something that cannot be appreciated enough. the road has been paved with thorns. in particular, the problems with sis ii, which have been delayed for unacceptable reasons and have been strongly criticised by parliament. as we have heard, we need sis ii to strengthen security in the newly enlarged area. parliament also criticised the failure to provide full transparency and access to evaluation documents immediately. i would like to thank in particular my friend and colleague, mr coelho. without his efforts, we would not have been able to complete our parliamentary scrutiny. finally, i would like to remind you that many of the new member states have longstanding historical ties with their european neighbours. we must now ensure that schengen enlargement does not lead to a schengen iron curtain against them. these neighbours of ours must also have access to the knowledge we have here if they are to follow in our footsteps and build a society of law, democracy and market economy. once again, congratulations to all three parties who have done well here.
mr president, our group is divided on this issue. i represent those who do not believe that the european parliaments will increase democracy. they are parties of parties, and in them power is increasingly being taken away from the people. they make the policies of the central government and are dominated by the big parties of the big countries. the european parliament's funding allows them to spread the central government's propaganda in the european elections at national level. they receive european support to promote european awareness among citizens. the central government's aim is to shape the consciousness of the citizens to be sympathetic to the central government, to make the citizens subjects. the new instruments for propaganda production now include the proposed legal basis for specific eurofoundations, a reduction in the self-financing share of the euro-regions and the possibility for them to derogate from the provisions of the other binding financial regulations. there's a part of us that says no to all this.
madam president, i think the commission’s contribution to the globalisation debate is a very valuable one. i think globalisation is not a threat but an opportunity. europe is well placed to rise to the challenge. we have highly developed infrastructure, education systems, technology, capital markets, and vibrant home markets in the making. it cannot be emphasised too strongly that europe’s strength lies in an internal market that is a springboard for our companies globally. business innovations are born all around europe. their proliferation, which brings well-being to europe, should not be burdened with red tape. i especially look to commissioner verheugen on this. reducing red tape in europe is a key issue for globalisation and the competitiveness of europe. we have to focus on smes in particular. they are the right focus for the commission’s attention. much has been achieved but, for example, tax barriers still hamper business in europe. strong businesses do not exist without a workforce, which threatens to be a scarce resource in europe very soon. europe’s demography requires immigration. here, other world regions are far ahead of us, which shows in their economic performance. this is a difficult issue requiring balanced consideration of all interests, not least those of employers. it is an eu issue, of course, because competitiveness does not come about without a mobile workforce. plans such as the ‘blue card’ are welcomed to this end. another element that should move freely but steadily is capital. financial stability is a sine qua non of a competitive and economically safe europe. financial markets are, globally, one of europe’s strong sectors, one of our new winning industries. innovation thanks to market-led regulation, which does not equal ‘laissez-faire’ – here, also, making it easier for the sector to function across europe is vital. as for the outside world, europe should establish itself as a strong global actor. we need unity from european union member states, and the commission can also contribute to bringing that unity.
mr president, i would like to bring the northern perspective to this debate. i worked for a couple of years in a regional development organization in finland, near the arctic circle and the russian border. globalisation was both a great threat and an opportunity for this remote region. we went into development believing in our own strengths, taking advantage of globalization. entrepreneurs, the public sector, schools and universities joined forces to build an effective innovation environment. the knowledge base was strengthened by networking with global knowledge networks in the spirit of the lisbon strategy. at the same time, renewable energy projects were launched. the results are encouraging, especially as international tourism is growing rapidly in the region. i believe that this regional model can be used elsewhere in europe and that the eu should strengthen the conditions for this kind of activity.
mr president, success in the face of globalisation is a prerequisite for the prosperity of europe, the producer of its material content. the three-year cycle of the renewed lisbon strategy is now coming to an end, and it is precisely the external dimension that must be addressed. i would like to stress three elements in particular. first, energy, its availability and adequacy, raise and lower societies in a global competitive environment. the situation does not look good for europe. the eu is facing a serious challenge in reducing its energy self-sufficiency. we already import half of our energy from outside, and our dependence on imports is projected to increase. in addition to a determined drive to increase energy independence, we need a strong common external energy policy, a common voice, solidarity and import security. the second key is climate change, a global phenomenon that has a negative and global impact on the environment, the economy and society and requires global solutions. unilateral action distorts competition and causes carbon leakage. in the context of globalisation, the need for a global emissions trading system, the mandatory commitment of all industrialized and emerging economies, and the removal of barriers to market access for clean technologies is emerging. thirdly, the eu must always remember the genius of schuman, that is, that in our success story the economy was put at the service of higher goals, the human good, peace and stability. our cultural heritage obliges us to strive for a more humane world, one that respects human rights. only then can globalization be a win-win. it's the only way to stop the world from getting out of hand.
in writing. – nowadays europeans don't find it at all strange to backpack in latin america, chat online with friends from africa and order cds from us. because of globalisation, the world is shrinking. especially the young generation regards europe as the backyard and the globe as just the hometown. still the term globalisation has a bad ring to it. a common fear is that due to globalisation, countries with low labour costs will deprive europe of jobs. the eu has a significant role in changing these attitudes. and it has - by proving that together the member states are strong enough to not only survive globalisation but even gain from it. as mentioned in the statement, europe is the worlds' largest exporter of goods and services and the second largest destination of foreign direct investment. and talking about employment: in 2006 altogether 3,5 million new jobs were created! sure, there are things to improve: europe's innovation policy would do with a boosting, global market regulation is needed and climate change prevention should not be only europe's problem. still, all in all, i have no doubt that the eu will pass the test of globalisation with flying colours.
mr president, mr commissioner, we have for years, like the rest of the western world, considered pakistan to be an important ally. the threat of terrorism and the strong rhetoric and promises of the pakistani government to combat this threat have also convinced the eu. but there are too many weaknesses to be overcome by alliances and mutual solidarity. now we must finally open our eyes. the third day of general musharraf's state of emergency, a crack in pakistan's constitution, is just the tip of the iceberg that we warned about here in july and october. the militarization of society has been gradual for years, and the litmus test of the human rights situation, religious freedom and minority rights, has been limited. instead of preparing for the triumph of democracy, pakistan has shown clear signs of strengthening its autocratic system of government this year. the arrest of opposition members, the disruption of the work of the supreme court, the denial of entry to one opposition leader and the house arrest of another, the imprisonment of a un representative and the violence of the authorities against peaceful protesters all indicate that pakistan is on the edge. the eu must now send a strong and united message, commissioner, that it is the popularity of democratic forces and a society that respects human rights, not the army, that is the strongest obstacle to the rise of radical groups. we understand that there are internal security threats in this country and that we must be able to respond to them, but democracy is not a security threat. it is also the solution in the fight against the taliban. the eu must have the courage to say out loud that we see the building of a stable and democratic society as a matter of destiny for our allies. the first step towards stability in pakistan is to guarantee the independence of the supreme court and the peace of the working world. the next parliamentary elections are in january. also, the provision of international assistance to the authorities in the investigation of the october bombing would indicate our concern. a formally constitutional society, at least, with a long tradition of democracy and a genuine desire for democracy, peace and stability among its people, will not give up easily either. but pakistan is also full of hope.
the author. mr president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the political groups for their excellent cooperation in the negotiations on this resolution. climate change is here and it's happening faster than we can predict. in dramatic evidence of this, at the end of last summer, a million square kilometers of ice in the northern arctic melted, an area equal to the combined area of finland, sweden, and norway. the message from scientists about the progress of climate change and the urgency of reducing emissions is becoming more alarming. this is also the preliminary information from the ipcc meeting in valencia this week. it is important that there is no gap between the kyoto agreement and the next climate agreement. therefore, the post-2012 agreement must be completed by 2009 at the latest. bali the eu must do all it can to secure a negotiating mandate that will allow global warming to be limited to below two degrees. the eu's leadership is crucial in this respect. we will show leadership by taking action to reduce our own emissions, but also by engaging in international negotiations. it is essential to involve all the industrialized countries, including the united states, but it is not enough to save the climate. it is equally essential to get the big developing countries, like china and india, to agree to limits on their emissions. this is perhaps the most difficult challenge in the history of international diplomacy. we have to understand that if china and india and similar countries accept limits on their emissions, it means a huge change in their thinking and their way of doing things. we must be prepared to give them some compensation for this. in other words, we must also support financially the breakthrough of clean, climate-friendly technology in these countries. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that nicholas stern estimates that 1% of the world's gdp is needed each year to protect the climate. after world war ii, the united states gave marshall aid two percent of its gross domestic product. it was important to get the post-war reconstruction going, but even more important is to prevent a comparable disaster through climate change. so we must also be prepared to pay financially for climate protection.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the days are coming when the island of bali in indonesia will be hosting delegates to the 13th conference of the parties to the convention on climate change, and they are once again being asked to make history by using their experience and their negotiating skills. with the first commitment period of the kyoto protocol running from 2008 to 2012, the worrying scientific information that has emerged in the meantime on the recent evolution of the climate change phenomenon makes clear the urgency of finding a collective and effective response to this challenge because what is at stake is nothing less than the future of our planet. in this context, bali presents itself as the last opportunity to launch negotiations on a comprehensive global climate agreement beyond 2012. we are aware of the difficulties of this legal process. the european union will go to bali with the same sense of mission that has guided it for the last 15 years, in which we have taken up without hesitation and without ambiguity the leading role of the international community in this great global challenge. the european union's major objective at the bali climate change conference will be related to the process itself, to ensure the launch of a comprehensive and comprehensive negotiation process. i would also like to tell them that the following are the elements that the union considers essential for the creation of an effective and appropriate framework after 2012. first, to continue to develop a common view of the problem in order to achieve the great objective of the convention; second, to agree on stronger commitments by developed countries to absolute emission reductions; third, facilitating new equitable and effective contributions from other countries, including incentives created by new types of flexible commitments, to reduce the greenhouse gas intensity associated with economic development; fourthly, we also want to expand the carbon market, in particular by strengthening innovative and flexible mechanisms; fifthly, to strengthen cooperation in the fields of research, development, dissemination, projection and transparency in the technological field; and finally, to intensify adaptation efforts, in particular with regard to risk management instruments, financing and technologies. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures speak for themselves. we were at the forefront in kyoto in committing ourselves beyond what was required of us then, and today the union and its member states have clearly defined ambitious targets that put us at the forefront of the fight against climate change. as the president-in-office of the european council in new york pointed out, climate change is now undeniably one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, having moved beyond the realm of scholarship to become a real and widespread concern for people all over the world. this is a global challenge that requires a global response. the effectiveness of our response will depend on collective action by the international community, which is why we believe that all efforts should be directed towards the negotiation of the comprehensive and comprehensive agreement, as i have said, within the framework of the united nations framework convention on climate change, which represents, and must continue to represent, the central and unavoidable frame of reference for all actions and initiatives to be developed in this field. it is therefore time for other states to take up their responsibilities and play a real and proportionate role in the global fight against climate change. encouraged by the debate between heads of state and government at the recent informal lisbon summit on europe and globalisation, which made it clear that climate change is a priority for the union, and by the conclusions of the environment council of 30 june on the preparations for cop 23, we will be leaving for bali, determined to actively contribute to achieving a result that can be translated into concrete and tangible progress on the future climate regime. bali does not represent the end but rather the beginning of a path, the road map that has been talked about so much lately. it is a complex challenge, it is a difficult challenge, but it is an achievable and undeniable challenge. the union, for its part, is prepared to take the lead in this challenge because that is the will of our citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank you for the opportunity to exchange views today on the position to be taken by the european union at the united nations conference in bali, which begins on 3 december. the commission and the european parliament have been instrumental in the adoption of an ambitious european climate policy with a leading role on the international stage and a constructive attitude towards our key partners in the developed and developing countries. i look forward to continuing this close and fruitful cooperation in bali, where parliament will be represented by a strong delegation. the question put by the interim committee on climate change is about the most important issues we will face in bali. one such issue is how to secure the support of our key partners to start negotiations with a view to concluding an international agreement that seeks and ensures that global warming is limited to 2°c. the bali conference will undoubtedly be a milestone in the international effort to combat climate change. bali will be a first real test of the international community's determination to turn political declarations into action. there are many encouraging examples. climate change is now a top priority of international policy and an issue of immediate concern to heads of state at the international level. a month ago, the first-of-its-kind summit convened by un secretary-general ban ki-moon in new york sent a very strong message: that climate change is now recognized by all world leaders as an issue that requires urgent and decisive action by the international community. the recent meeting in bogor also confirmed that more and more countries agree on the need to agree in bali to start formal negotiations on a post-2012 climate agreement. the discussions so far have also shown that there is a convergence of views on the main elements to be included in the agreement for the period after 2012. of course, some would prefer the so-called clusters (reduction, adaptation, technology, financing) rather than the main elements of the bali agreement, which is the position of the european union. the european union has, however, managed to shape much of the agenda of the bali conference. the european union's climate and energy strategy, adopted by the european council in march 2007 on the basis of the commission's proposal, has decisively influenced the target and level of ambition of the bali conference and the architecture of the post-2012 climate agreement. the european union strategy has been the basis of a number of multilateral and bilateral discussions. at the end of this month, the european union will discuss the issue of climate change as a priority issue at the eu-china and eu-india summits. it is now up to our partners in the developed countries to respond and cooperate to the objectives set by the european union, always on the basis of the data provided by science. developed countries must continue to lead by making ambitious commitments to absolute emission reductions. we have the financial and technological means to limit greenhouse gas emissions. if we and the other developed countries don't take action first, how can we expect the fast-growing, emerging economies to take action, to the extent that they need to? the forecasts for the increase in global emissions leave no doubt, however, that developing countries must also contribute. we are not asking them - at this stage - to commit to absolute emission reductions. but we need the developing countries, with our help, to slow down the rate of increase in their emissions so that globally -- at some point in the next 10 to 15 years -- after we peak carbon emissions, they can start to decline completely. only then will we be able to keep the increase in the global average temperature within the 2°c limit. in this context it is necessary to focus on concrete proposals to strengthen financing and investment in clean technologies and the transfer of these technologies to developing countries. that is why we support the initiative of our indonesian hosts to invite the finance ministers to a meeting on climate change and finance in bali during the conference. the european union must first of all be effective at home if it is to maintain its leading role internationally. the commission will adopt the climate and energy package early next year and will provide the means to achieve our targets of a 20% cut unilaterally and a 30% cut if there is an international agreement. the package of measures will include proposals to share responsibility and obligations between member states, improve the eu's emissions trading system and achieve the renewable energy targets. measures taken at community level should also contribute to the reduction of emissions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission will propose a legislative framework to achieve the community target of 120 g/km by 2012. the commission will also present the legal framework for the capture and storage of carbon dioxide with the necessary guarantees for environmental protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we now need to shape and achieve the widest possible international support for the road map we have in mind. the european union will intensify bilateral contacts with key partners and will take advantage of the forthcoming summits and all major international meetings. although, as i said earlier, there are encouraging examples internationally, there are also serious differences of opinion, for example, on how to deal with climate change and in particular the type, the nature of the objectives. the united states continues to oppose binding targets. these kinds of objectives are fundamental if we are to ensure the effectiveness of our agreement and to strengthen the global carbon market. we will continue to work with all those in the united states who can help to bring about a change of attitude at the federal level. there's already a very lively debate going on inside the united states about tackling climate change. we are receiving from various quarters, from the united states, clear messages and calls for decisive action in the run-up to the bali conference. we count on the support of the european parliament to promote the european union's ambitious climate goals through your various contacts with colleagues from other parliaments around the world, with industry representatives and with civil society. we need this support as part of our efforts to strengthen international cooperation on climate change. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
for the ppe-de group mr president, first of all, a warm thanks to mr satu hass for his good cooperation in this resolution. it is clear that we are facing perhaps one of the most important, if not the most important, climate change conference to date. unfortunately, the last five climate summits have not made much progress. now is finally the time to decide on concrete action models for the period after 2012. what these previous meetings have in common is that instead of bringing real breakthroughs, we have seen a back-slapping of the leadership that comes from unilateral action and environmental ambition in the eu, and so we are moving forward another year. the problem is that the global climate problem requires rapid global action, and that's what has seemed to be emerging. for example, a year ago nairobi did not bring into focus the commitment of significant new countries to cut emissions from 2013 onwards. the hope has therefore been that negotiated plans outside the kyoto agreement would lead to reductions in emissions for the world's four largest emitters, the united states, china, india and russia. perhaps the most concrete challenge for developing countries is the idea of solidarity. at the time, there was no way of knowing how much more emissions would be emitted, and now about half of the emissions are coming from developing countries, mainly china and india. the citizens of these countries have a right to economic growth, but it is in everyone's interest that this growth should be as clean as possible. so the negotiating situation is difficult, but so is the practice. it can attract companies operating in global markets to continue investing where there are no proper environmental standards or emission limits. but there is no solidarity for people in developing countries in the destruction of their environment. the shifting of emissions is not cutting emissions. so the net result is that three quarters of the emissions are increasing at an accelerating rate. what about now? could it be time to uncouple industrial production from country-specific constraints and instead design a global industrial sector system and an international carbon economy? the emphasis should be on energy saving and eco-efficiency, low-emission technology and its development.
mr president, the credibility of the european union's leadership on climate policy will be tested in bali in december. the result must be a global will, a clear mandate to act to limit global warming to two degrees. the european union has already made its own decisions. however, achieving this target will require a commitment by all industrialized countries, such as the united states and australia, to reduce emissions. we can no longer afford to have the debate that we have had up to now, namely whether we can achieve this by developing technology or by setting binding targets. we need both. but it is only binding targets and sufficiently stringent emission targets that force companies to switch to cleaner and more environmentally friendly technologies. we must remember, as has been said here, that in order to get all parties involved in the agreement, solidarity is needed, particularly with the developing countries which are in the most difficult position. but we also need to get into a clear negotiating position with developing countries such as china and india on future quantitative emission reductions. i would also like to thank all those who, on behalf of parliament, have contributed to the drafting of this resolution, in particular mr satu hass and the negotiators of the groups. you've done an excellent job with this.
for the alde group mr president, the neighbourhood policy is one of the eu's foreign policy priorities. the enp is part of a broader effort to promote peace, stability and economic prosperity. the implementation of the enp also requires a lot from the eu, as the 27 member states must be able to align their strategic objectives. it is important to avoid an east-west confrontation, even though it is clear that eu member states have different priorities for cooperation. we need cooperation from all sides. with all eu member states and 16 partner countries involved in the cooperation, it is also understandable that the development of this policy is accompanied by strong doubts about how to bring together such a diverse range of partner countries. however, the strength of this enp policy is that it gives the eu more resources to support partner countries than if each country were approached separately and at very different times. the overall approach of the enp also ensures that eu policy is not dependent on the regional or country-specific preferences of each presidency. mr president, my group gives its clear support to the development of the enp and the priorities identified by the commission, namely economic integration, human mobility, energy - to which we would like to add climate change - and financial and technical assistance. (applause) i would like to thank the
i too thank the authors of the report, mr president, for a good report. i would like to emphasise the role of local and regional authorities and civil society in implementing the european neighbourhood policy. cultural and student exchanges and successful practical projects carried out together are key to promoting european values in neighbouring countries. the committee on regional development also recalled the good experience of implementing the partnership principle in cohesion policy. these good experiences must also be used in the implementation of the enp. the reduction of barriers to cross-border traffic and the facilitation of the movement of students, researchers, artists, journalists and entrepreneurs in particular will also bring about real convergence.
i would simply point out, mr president, that in the finnish text of this resolution, an important point has been mistranslated. the finnish text of paragraph 1 on the negotiating mandate in bali is misunderstood to mean that this resolution would deal with the eu's internal negotiating mandate before the bali meeting. in fact, this 'bali mandate' means that the countries which ratified the climate agreement at the bali meeting are seeking to achieve a negotiating mandate which will create the possibility of a next climate agreement. in paragraph 1 of the english version, the words 'agreeing on the negotiating mandate necessary for this meeting' should read 'agreeing on the negotiating mandate at this meeting'.
mr president, our group considered the amendment to the declaration on the role of nuclear energy in our declaration on the climate conference as an essential part of this resolution. we therefore welcome the fact that parliament has taken this into account by adopting amendment no 7. we're not in this alone. the un's intergovernmental panel on climate change also noted the important role of nuclear power as a low-carbon energy source. and it is perhaps worth recalling that this house took a historic decision on the reul report by a vote of 509 in favour. the european parliament recognised nuclear energy as the eu's most significant low-carbon energy source at present and also stressed its role in combating climate change. on the other hand, our group did not support paragraph 25 of the resolution, because we believe that it unnecessarily links or equates peaceful nuclear power with the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the threat of terrorism. we must remember that the atmosphere has no moral sensors. it doesn't alienate one form of energy or sympathize with another for ideological reasons. the only thing that matters is zero emissions, and now emissions are not welcome. in any event, i would like to express our satisfaction that this house has given a clear message to the climate change conference and has recognised the seriousness of the threat of climate change.
mr president, i would like to pay tribute to the initiative of my colleague mr mauro. every day, peace-loving christians are victims of both systematic oppression and victimization in crises that they are not involved in. this is absolutely reprehensible and necessary to bring up. however, in order to really improve the situation of christians, it is important to understand the problem as part of a larger whole. in many lands, besides christians, muslims, buddhists, hindus, jews, sikhs, and ahmadiyya are also in trouble. the list is long. freedom of religion is the key to a society that respects human rights and civil liberties. it is a kind of meta-right, the realization of which is in practice a prerequisite for the existence of other human rights and which reflects the state of society as a whole. if society is beginning to suffer, it is first manifested in the very restrictions on religious freedom and the status of religious minorities. for this reason we must express our strong support for the un general assembly resolution on religious freedom. it is noteworthy that in many countries, such as pakistan and indonesia, religious communities are working together to promote religious freedom and the protection of minorities. so religion itself may also be the solution. pluralistic dialogue always leads to a reduction of tensions, to religious freedom and to the good of society as a whole.
in writing. on 19 october, the treaty establishing a more functional and democratic european union was signed in lisbon. it also strengthens civil rights. the eu charter of fundamental rights becomes legally binding and the eu accedes to the european convention on human rights. in the unratified constitution, the charter of fundamental rights formed the second part. parliament's representatives at the igc approved an initiative to have the charter of fundamental rights signed by the presidents of parliament, the council and the commission in a solemn ceremony in parliament's plenary on 12 december and published in the official journal. this is a perfect match for the value of the charter. the formal signing also increases the visibility of the document. it goes without saying that we want to give our president, hans-gert pöttering, a mandate to sign.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, rapporteur gisela kallenbach, the other shadow rapporteurs and the chair of the committee on the internal market, arlene mccarthy, for the passage of this complex legislative package. when we started this work almost two years ago, we were assured that it was primarily a technical measure whose sole purpose was to convert the un firearms protocol into eu legislation. but the process was anything but technical. some wanted to ban guns altogether and also to impede the legal pursuits of citizens, while others wanted no controls on the acquisition and use of weapons. however, under the leadership of the rapporteur, mr kallenbach, we have found a balanced compromise between the main groups, taking into account the needs of both the security of citizens and society and the needs of, for example, gun owners and hunters. it is good that all weapons in the eu are registered to make it easier to trace them, and that member states will have to keep records of the weapon and its owner for 20 years. it is also important that replicas and modified weapons be brought under the directive. the european union is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the age limit of 18 years, with exceptions, is a reasonable one in my view. this means that in my own country, finland, for example, thousands of registered minors are allowed to continue hunting with parental permission, just as they have been until now. it is precisely such directives that will redeem the legitimacy of the citizens. the four freedoms of the eu will be further strengthened as the eu is developed as a secure area of internal law.
for the alde group mr president, i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs gisela kallenbach, for a very well-prepared report. the prevention of the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms is important for the safety of citizens. the report contributes to this objective. we finns have been concerned about the continuing hunting passion of young people. in finland, this hobby is licensed, closely controlled, and with the support of experienced hunters, a guide to safe and responsible use of weapons. i think it is important that this good practice and long tradition can continue in finland after the adoption of the new directive. it is important that tomorrow a carefully prepared compromise is adopted, which reconciles the different practices of the member states and which allows member states to allow persons under 18 years of age to acquire and possess firearms for hunting purposes under certain conditions.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. mr president, as the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets, i am pleased to note that the committee responsible has accepted our amendments. it was very presumptuous of the commission to propose a new concept of 'availability period' and to interpret it as meaning that the validity of the act could be extended by the comitology procedure alone. the commission is only an executive body and cannot play a legislative role. it would be if it could decide the duration of the financial assistance. in the committee on budgets i am pleased to note that the committee on budgets has adopted a favourable position on the amendment of the legal base which we have proposed, although it will only be adopted on future proposals for macro-financial assistance. we believe that the more appropriate legal basis is article 179 and not the general rule 308 now used. we hope that the commission and the council will take these wishes of parliament into account in the future.
in writing. mainstreaming climate policy is essential for the successful fight against climate change. the report before us is a valuable and necessary contribution: trade policy must be part of climate policy, for the very reason that increased trade is causing ever more greenhouse gas emissions. on the other hand, trade policy is a particularly effective instrument for climate policy and can therefore be part of the solution. firstly, trade policy plays a major role in promoting environmentally friendly technologies; international trade is one of the most effective instruments for technology transfer. the role of the wto is enhanced by the need to eliminate customs duties on environmentally friendly products and to develop rules on intellectual property rights. on the other hand, it is unacceptable that in the wto environment, distortive subsidies for fossil fuels, for example, continue to stand in the way of green technology. the report does, in part, unnecessarily highlight the success of kyoto. kyoto is full of loopholes that actually make things worse. unilateral action distorts competition and causes carbon leakage. the shifting of emissions is not cutting emissions. moreover, solidarity for the people of developing countries is not that their environment is being ruined kyoto leads to environmental exploitation. climate change is a global phenomenon and requires global solutions. the global emissions trading system and the mandatory commitment of all industrialized and emerging economies to it are therefore essential. i fully agree with the report's concern about the fate of forests in the face of increased trade. the eu should pay particular attention to the risks posed by biofuels to wildlife. the renewable energy targets set by the commission must not lead to an acceleration of climate change.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, this is again the time of the year when the court of auditors issues a negative audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the expenditure for the previous year. in the spring, it will be parliament's turn to grant the persons concerned a discharge, despite the negative audit opinion. it's been the practice for the last few years, except for one election year. i would draw your attention to the figures v and vi in the annex to the audit report, which allow the net contributions of the member states to be calculated. the traditional own resources include the customs duties levied by member states, including those levied on goods shipped to other member states. it gives a misleading picture of the actual net contribution of some member states, in particular the netherlands and belgium, especially when taking into account the exorbitant 25% duty premium. it is also difficult to accept the method of calculation apparently originating from the commission, according to which administrative expenditure is not included in the union's expenditure in this context. the audit figures alone do not tell the whole truth about the use of funds, and they also contain political elements. it is positive that the name of a country is mentioned where the system of control and management of agricultural expenditure has not been properly applied - greece. the examples of misuse of agricultural aid which were raised in the opening speech by the president of the court of auditors must be corrected. commissioner kallas, there were other problems besides the golf club. the positive impact of audit recommendations is illustrated by the attention paid to the remuneration of parliament's assistants. the new rules are a bit excessive, but better than allowing the omissions. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, i was going to end my speech by saying that the discharge report provides a wonderful source for anti-european propaganda, but since that is what mr hans-peter martin has just said i will instead start by saying it, and that i am glad mr bösch intervened. i would like to make three points. the first is a general point, which is to congratulate the court of auditors on its report. since it is a better report than last year’s report we should also congratulate the commission. i like the system of traffic lights. for simple meps like myself it gives quite a good picture of what is going well and what is not going well. nevertheless, we in the european parliament, as always, have three possibilities. the first is to approve and give discharge to the commission, the second is to delay, and the third is to reject. we must bear that in mind at the start of every debate. my second point concerns the policies, and firstly the common agricultural policy (cap). my congratulations on that. the only problem there seems to be with greece, as many have noted. the golf course problem, as has already been said, is not really a problem. it has been over-exaggerated by the media. i am not saying this solely because i used to play for the finnish national golf team, and have no direct vested interest! the other area is structural policies, where there is an estimated 12% error. that can be improved upon. there are also the so-called ‘rals’ or restes à liquider, which amount to eur 130 billion. the commission must work hard on that area. my third and final point is that the discharge procedure provides an easy target for anti-eu propaganda, as we have just witnessed, and also that there is indeed some bad news in this report, which is that not everything is in order and that there is room for improvement. however, the good news is that there has already been improvement. we have reliable accounts and we have achieved improvements on the cap. also, the commission should be congratulated for getting a green light on its administration. i would therefore call for a critical, but constructive, debate on the discharge procedure with the distant hope of there being a positive das in 2009.
member of the commission. mr president, i take this point on behalf of my colleague mr stavros dimas, whose presence in bali at the climate change conference has prevented him from being here this evening. i would first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, ms lienemann, for her excellent work on the marine strategy directive, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for its positive and constructive contribution. this directive marks the beginning of a new approach for protecting our seas and our oceans. the next challenge will, of course, be its successful implementation. the efforts of parliament to enhance the ambition of this legislative initiative have borne fruit, and they have made sure that the agreed directive will be an effective instrument for protecting our seas and our oceans in an integrated manner. the commission is pleased that it was possible to reach an agreement at second reading. i would like, in particular, to highlight the constructive role of the european parliament in this process. by preserving at all times its high political and environmental objectives, parliament has played a helpful and constructive role to work towards this agreement. the objective of the proposed directive is that member states take the necessary measures to achieve good environmental status in the marine environment by the year 2020 at the latest. this will be done through the establishment and implementation of marine strategies in their marine waters. therefore, the directive contains a very demanding objective. the commission remains vigilant to ensure that all necessary measures are adopted to guarantee the effective protection of our marine environment. on some important points, parliament has succeeded in going beyond the original commission proposal. i would like in particular to underline three issues that have been central to the negotiations: ensuring an ambitious objective for the directive; defining in a more precise way what is meant by good environmental status, including a set of specific descriptors, and requiring the establishment of marine protected areas in the context of this directive. parliament has insisted, throughout the negotiating process, on the need to ensure that the directive has a strong ambition on all the essential points. this directive sets out a new framework for working, for the first time, together in an integrated manner to protect our seas and oceans. we will continue to build on this policy initiative in order to allow this marine strategy directive to concretely deliver the environmental pillar of the marine policy of the european union. therefore, the commission can accept a compromise package in order to reach an agreement on this directive at second reading.
for the ppe-de group mr president, as rapporteur for my group, i am pleased to say that the directive on which we have reached agreement is one of the eu environmental laws whose results will be tangibly enjoyed by our future generations. it is time to finally pay attention to our marine environment, whose deterioration has been a sad sight to behold, the baltic sea being the most striking example. the directive in question offers new hope in this situation, with the aim of halting marine pollution and restoring marine biodiversity. the work of these two years has not always been easy. although the aim has been the same, the means of the political groups have often differed. one example of where our positions differed was in relation to the future prospects for carbon capture and storage technology. lienemann's position would have effectively prevented the development of this technology. we, on the other hand, felt that in the light of climate change this was necessary and that the maritime directive should not therefore create details which would make this impossible. i believe that the compromise now reached will satisfy all parties. it is ambitious in its objectives, leaving the means to the member states and, on the other hand, obliging the member states in each sea area to cooperate to achieve the best result. the compromise text clearly describes the good status of the marine environment we are seeking and the possible threats to it. at the same time, it will no longer identify in detail the different activities that pose a threat, since the list would not be exhaustive and would, on the one hand, place activities in the marine environment in an unequal position. the wording chosen here obliges but does not inculpate, encourages but does not justify coercive measures. however, the objectives are clear, scientifically justified, binding and therefore effective. i would like to thank my colleague mr lienemann for his successful work. he has successfully led negotiations by listening to other groups as well. i am particularly grateful to you for bringing the serious situation in the baltic sea to our attention. i am convinced that the marine strategy directive is an excellent environmental pillar of the eu's overall maritime policy. it explicitly supports the overall maritime policy objective of increasing growth, jobs and sustainable development, while building on a strong marine research knowledge base. this is the kind of legislation our community needs.
in writing. we are debating today, at second reading, two important directives to improve the quality of the environment - one for the sea, the other for the air. air protection is the most important and traditional area of environmental protection because of the direct link between air quality and human health. as the commission has noted, air pollution has reduced life expectancy in the eu by 8.5 months. the quality of life for hundreds of thousands of people is deteriorating daily, and the natural environment is threatened despite significant emission reductions in recent years. the importance of the air quality directive cannot be overstated: it brings together a fragmented set of standards, which improves the approach to the problem. first of all, i would like to thank the council for coming up against parliament on important issues: almost half of the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading had been fully incorporated. the council decided to support specifically some very important amendments by parliament concerning the replacement of target values for certain concentrations of particulate matter by binding limit values and their deadlines and applicability. the limit value for pm2,5 particles, which are the most harmful to human health, is of crucial importance. so we absolutely need a strict directive. however, limit values alone are not sufficient. attention should also be paid to the promotion of technologies that improve air quality.
rapporteur. mr president, as rapporteur i would like to warmly thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr böge. it is to his merit that the outcome, following conciliation, is so well-balanced. i would like also to thank mr virrankoski, my fellow rapporteur, for his great cooperation during the budget procedure. i am especially glad that mr virrankoski made possible the pilot projects in support of the sustainability of the baltic sea. my main objective as rapporteur for the budgets of parliament and the other institutions was to keep any increase as low as possible. that is why i named this budget ‘the taxpayers’ budget’. that objective has been achieved, and the increase has been kept to below 4%. haluan vielä muistuttaa päätöslauselmaesityksen kohdan 48 osalta, että se käsittelee parlamentin jäsenten asemaa koskevien sääntöjen 29 artiklaa. hallinto on tätä koskien pyytänyt, että lähettäisimme kirjeen kaikille jäsenvaltioiden hallituksille kysyen, miten he haluavat jäsenten toimivan, jos he tulevat uudelleen valituiksi, uusien jäsenten asemaa koskevien sääntöjen osalta. toivon, että tätä koskeva tarkistukseni menee läpi ja tämä asia tulee käsittelyyn kvestoreitten kautta, koska se on tältä osin oikea tapa toimia. kun tästä asiasta on julkisuudessakin käyty keskustelua, haluan todeta, että tämä neuvoston päättämä 29 artikla tarkoittaa sitä, että jäsenvaltioiden hallitukset tekevät sen ratkaisun, sovelletaanko uudelleen valittuihin jäseniin vanhoja säännöksiä vai uusia säännöksiä. ei ole niin, että jäsenet itse voisivat suoralta kädeltä tämän valinnan tehdä. ja koska tätä asiaa käsittelevät kvestorit, on oikein, että he myös päättävät tämän kirjeen lähettämisestä.
rapporteur. mr president, excuse me, but do i have two and a half or five minutes?
the rapporteur. the budget of the european union for next year, mr president, will total eur 129 149 700 000 in commitments and eur 120 346 800 000 in payments. although the increase is 5.71%, the payments are still only 0.96% of gni, i.e. eur 9.3 billion less than the mff. the parliament's absolute priority has been under heading 1: sustainable growth and competitiveness. parliament strongly supported the funding of two new projects, the galileo satellite navigation system and the european institute of innovation and technology. we did it. the council agreed to revise the multiannual financial framework so that the galileo project is fully funded by the eu budget. the financing gap of eur 2,4 billion was created when the private sector withdrew from financial responsibility. the house called for the gap to be closed in the eu budget. the partial indefinite extension was no longer in question. the choice was to be made in this budgetary procedure: either to continue with the full resources or to stop immediately. fortunately, the council of europe has decided to continue. the portuguese presidency has done a great job in this. the funds needed were taken from eur 1.6 billion of unused agricultural expenditure this year, eur 200 million from the flexibility instrument and the rest by prioritising and reallocating expenditure under heading 1a. the rescue of the galileo project was a great victory for parliament in this budgetary procedure. another important achievement was the promotion of the eu's external action. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the new financial framework for the european union (2007 to 2013) and the new financial framework for the european union (2008 to 2013). all this is necessary, among other things, for the preparation of the kosovo police operation and for the continuing difficult challenges in palestine and in preparation for them. the committee on budgets has created a special reserve to speed up the process of performance-based governance. the resolution also refers to this. the management of the structural funds is a particular problem. more than half of the operational programmes are still not approved. it is important that they be approved without delay. finally, i would like to thank the portuguese representatives of the presidency in particular for their excellent work and commissioner grybauskaitė for her constructive initiative. i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr reimer böge, and all the coordinators and members. i also thank the officials of the committee on budgets and those of my own group who, under the pressure of a tight timetable, were able to do a good job of preparing the budget. with these words, mr president, i leave the budget to the plenary. (applause) i would like to thank the
for the gue/ngl group mr president, tomorrow we will be adopting the eu budget for next year, with payments well below the 1% threshold, let alone 1.24% of gross national income. in this respect, the result satisfies those in our group who want to save the taxpayers' money in their own countries. on the other hand, there are many in our group who would have liked the commission budget to follow the line of parliament's use of funds, which represents a less than adequate budgetary discipline: the search for new expenditure, even if the money is not well spent. we have a two-pronged approach to the galileo project. some want to finance it from the eu budget, others do not want the whole galileo project because of its cost. there's a fear that the money we've raised will not be adequately returned. with private companies giving up funding, galileo's future now depends on eu funding. our group is opposed to the militarization of the galileo project, which was originally intended for civilian use only. we also oppose additional funding for the union's foreign, security and defence policy from the eu budget. we insist that the eu is a peace organisation and not a militarised superpower. this is the case when the council wants more money to finance the common foreign and security policy. we do not want to be involved in protecting the political legacy of the old transitional states in africa with eu budgetary funds or the illegal actions of the torturer state of the usa in iraq and afghanistan. on the basis of the above, among other things, our group will vote against the budgetary report by mr virrankoski in a spirit of friendship.
in writing. the rapporteurs of the european parliament should be congratulated on a successful budget: kyösti virrankoski for the commission budget and ville itälä for the parliament and the other institutions. this is a historic result. for the first time, the structural and cohesion funds will receive the largest share of the budget. this reflects changes in the commission's priorities. the budget is less than 1% of gdp, which is about eur 120.3 billion for 2008. the budget also looks to the future, with a result of eur 3.4 billion for the galileo satellite navigation system and eur 309 million for the european institute of technology (eit). the common foreign and security policy also received increased attention. this is of the utmost importance for the strengthening of a credible international role. as far as parliament is concerned, ville itälä has made a good point of the importance of budgetary discipline and the responsible use of common funds. i therefore consider the budget as it stands to be excellent.
mr president, the council representative stated that human rights issues must be taken into account in all policies. that is the way it is, and that is the way it has to be in foreign affairs, but the eu should also dare to look in its own backyard and in its own front yard. is the treatment of migrant workers within the eu consistent with the human rights of all? there's a lot of poverty here. it is not, in fact, part of the official eu policy. it's outsourced to the church and charities. the eu must be more decisive on human rights, actions count, not words. i would like to conclude by highlighting the humanitarian crisis in iraq, which is about to explode. some 4.5 million people have been forced to flee their homes, and iraqis were the largest group of asylum seekers in europe last year. the eu has responded to the crisis by providing €4 million to the un refugee agency and the dutch red cross, and a further €11 million is planned for the country's health and education services. but is this enough support from the rich european union for these 4.5 million people who are in a plight through no fault of their own? the crisis in iraq is one of the worst in the world right now.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i would like to start, like many other colleagues today, by stressing the importance of intellectual property rights and the protection of design in general. we need these rights if we want to continue to be competitive, dynamic and innovative and develop our societies. however, we also need to make sure that our markets are functioning in an efficient way. the commission’s proposal could not be more timely. as many have stressed, we have already waited for 17 years, and we have to wait five more. i think the grace period of five years is already long enough, and it certainly gives the automotive industry time to adjust their industry in a proper way. this is a good balance between intellectual property rights and the rights of consumers. we have 260 million vehicle owners in europe, who are waiting to get a ‘spare parts and repair’ clause which is well functioning. this proposal for a directive, and the compromise made by the committee on legal affairs, ensure that all those parts that are attached to the end product when the product is made – which are not really traditional spare parts – can still have full protection under the design directive. i am confident that the directive will benefit european consumers. the scaremongering by the automotive industry that this would result in the loss of 50 000 employees from the automotive sector or eur 2 billion losses to vehicle manufacturers is absolute nonsense. i think that it will bring business opportunities for a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in europe and create new jobs for europeans. it remains to be seen, and we definitely want to see the results in five years and not eight years. i hope this will be the compromise tomorrow.
i think it is very good that health claims are being made for products, but it is true that we must ensure that they are true and based on facts. it is not right that any company should produce these studies and so-called commercial arguments as if they were to overcome the health arguments. so research and information must be found to be true and therefore reliable. it is very important to ensure that nutrition and health claims are correct and that this can also be used to switch to a healthier diet. this is particularly important for children and young people, because we know the serious problems that europe is currently facing with obesity, second-degree diabetes and other such diseases. care must be taken to ensure that the food is good and the health claims are true.
i think, mr president, that this resolution is a good one, but it is a bit contradictory in that some of its points give the impression that we are, as it were, throwing our hands up in the face of terrorism. the idea that terrorism must be eliminated completely, must be stamped out completely, and this was raised by mr muscardini of the uen group, for example, in this oral amendment, is not acceptable. i think this is something that perhaps should have been dealt with in greater depth in this report. i think that the european union's position on terrorism must be absolutely clear. we promote democracy, human rights and freedom of expression and do not condone terrorism under any circumstances. i would also have liked to see the importance of education in addressing the causes of poverty. for example, the fight against terrorism in the palestinian autonomous region should be conducted primarily through education, so that future generations of young people can be educated and trained in ways that are free of hatred and thus enable them to learn to live together in peace.
madam president, first i would like to thank everyone because this is a very timely issue. we all know that ongoing financial turmoil has underlined the importance of cross-border crisis management, and the october ecofin decision to have more ex-ante coordination between member states and, especially, supervisory regimes cannot be more welcome. banks are at the heart of the payment system and deal with the savings of ordinary consumers who are not financial professionals. therefore, the proper functioning of the payment systems and clearing and settlement system is particularly sensitive. many of the banks are functioning cross-border now. a scattered national regulatory framework is not adequate. currently, not even the types of account falling under the deficit guarantee scheme’s requirements are the same in every member state. we should not let this become a depositors’ problem. the rapporteur, mr ehler, has done good work in the report and showed a lot of willingness to compromise. in particular, the report rightly emphasises the importance of eliminating distortions of competition. as the commissioner said, it is very important to guarantee a level playing field. however, i regret that the report finally does not address the issue of ex-ante deposit guarantee (dg) schemes. while it has been argued by the member states having ex-post dg systems that this is a problem specific to scandinavia and nordic markets, this is not. it is actually anti-competitive for the whole single market on a wider scale. in fact, most schemes in europe are ex ante. if the rules of refundability and transferability of funds paid into such schemes are not harmonised, this distorts the choice between branch and subsidiary models in the host country, and this leads to distortion of competition. so it is very welcome that the commission is studying this matter, analysing whether there are competition distortions and making possible future recommendations in this area, especially on refundability and transferability of ex ante deposit guarantees already paid in money. so i welcome the commission initiative and mr ehler’s report but further work needs to be done.
madam president, first i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr klinz, for his own-initiative report and also for taking on board all the proposals and opinions of the other groups. harmonising the environment for asset management and products on the fund market can bring huge benefits to the european economy, as proven also by the 1985 ucits directive. the ucits directive has become a huge brand globally. it sells well abroad. ucits represent the basis for a robust fund market in europe and they make the economy more buoyant through increased stability and the productive reinvestment of savings. however, the topic of this report is not the ucits revision, which is forthcoming and which we welcome. the report addresses, instead, non-harmonised retail funds that are outside the scope of ucits, calling for a number of important measures. i would particularly like to welcome the private placement regime, which was also mentioned by the commissioner. initiative is very instrumental in achieving the european market in non-harmonised funds. second, fee transparency is a long-due and underrated feature for increasing investor information. other measures in the report go in the right direction as well, removing market distortions. however – and coming back to ucits’ success – we must not get greedy here or mix things up hastily. i am, of course, referring to the debate on extending ucits’ scope to new asset classes such as open-ended real estate funds or funds of hedge funds. i do not think the time is right now to discuss these sensitive matters. we might end up with a more rigid regime, and we would probably find ourselves in a different financial market environment. i also think it is very important to discuss the role of guaranteed funds. there is no such thing as a guaranteed fund. our group wanted to have some flexibility. we do not think that having a capital adequacy regime for funds solves the problem. guaranteed funds do not exist, and this kind of definition should be removed from the regime. that is why we have both put forward a proposal from the ppe-de group.
rapporteur. mr president, the second reading budget conciliation between the two arms of the budgetary authority was held on 23 november 2007. parliament achieved a budget for results on its major objectives: financing for galileo (eur 2.4 billion) via a revision of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework (mff) and the use of the flexibility instrument (eur 200 million); significant further use of the flexibility instrument (eur 70 million) to finance an increase in the spending on common foreign and security policy (cfsp). the committee on budgets voted its second reading amendments, further to the conciliation outcome, on 29 november 2007. after the technical check of the figures, a small number of technical adjustments were necessary to ensure full respect of the conciliation outcome of 23 november as regards revised financial framework ceilings and the overall level of payments. the agreed modifications are the following: first, in heading 1a, commitment appropriations are adjusted as follows: amendment 335:06 02 09 01 (galileo supervisory authority) to eur 7 460 00006 02 09 02 (galileo supervisory authority) to eur 3 100 00008 07 01 (research cooperation – transport) to eur 348 922 000 amendment 331:02 02 01 (competitiveness and innovation) to eur 126 300 000 amendment 69:06 03 03 (tens – t) to eur 955 852 600 second, in heading 1b, in order to meet the overall level of payments agreed at the conciliation, payment appropriations are modified on lines: amendment 27:04 02 17 (esf) to eur 3 823 198 181 amendment 140:13 03 16 (erdf convergence) to eur 10 606 637 496 amendment 141:13 03 18 (erdf competitiveness) to eur 2 540 832 078 all these technical adjustments were unanimously approved by the committee on budgets on monday 10 december. third, a number of technical/nomenclature changes will be made, mainly as regards pilot projects and preparatory actions. these changes have been presented to the president of parliament. these modifications do not change any figures, nor do they change any mff classifications.
