mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i understand your anger at the fact that a very modest group is being set up on this occasion. your objection would be admissible if all our colleagues had not signed an explicit declaration which has an undeniable political content and which is also available to the president and the administration of this parliament. i'll be happy to send you a copy. it is a declaration in favour of maintaining european identity and the identities of our country in order to root our modernity in european traditions, a declaration also in favour of financial transparency accompanied by a non-confessional reference to christian values and human rights. this is a very specific text which has been signed by all our colleagues. of course, as mrs mussolini said, it is also our intention to put an end to the discriminatory situation of non-attached members as compared with members who are members of a group. unfortunately, this discriminatory situation will continue for those of our members who remain unregistered and who do not have the same political, administrative and financial resources as other groups. but i want to reassure you, mr schultz, that the identity, tradition and sovereignty group is a political group and is in full compliance with the rules of procedure of this parliament and the case law of the european court of justice. please, mr schultz, do not give yourself the wrong impression of wanting to bully a minority group and possibly be disavowed by the luxembourg court.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, i would like to extend a very warm welcome to romania and bulgaria as new members of the european family and to welcome the new colleagues from these two countries, who are now at home. we have been working with the bulgarian and romanian observers since september 2005. i am sure that we will continue our excellent cooperation in the years to come. these new members are a very important event for our group. the europe of the twenty-seven must now face the great challenges of the future. i want her to do it as closely as possible, but above all in the most responsible way. one thing is certain: the existing treaties are no longer sufficient to deal with the new challenges. we need, and the sooner the better, new institutional rules of the game. without this, europe will not be able to decide on the major problems of our continent. mr president, since your election two and a half years ago, the european parliament has made a great deal of progress. the increased powers of the president, the way he exercises his responsibilities and his political maturity are visible to all observers. i will take only the services directive and the reach regulation on chemicals as examples, two important issues in which parliament has played a predominant role. another positive development is that relations with the european commission have been better defined with the new framework agreement. i have no doubt, madam vice-president wallström, that the commission will honour all its commitments in this respect, as will the european parliament. europe will only move forward if the european institutions, and in particular the commission and parliament, work in mutual respect and with a high degree of intelligence. mr president, you have done a great deal to strengthen the dialogue between european and national parliamentarians. this is how we can convince our fellow citizens of the relevance of the joint action of the member states of the union to meet their daily concerns. we must accelerate and further structure this partnership. the group of the european people's party and the european democrats will take strong initiatives in this direction. during your term of office, mr president, you have shown that this parliament can work effectively with representatives of the twenty-five or even the twenty-seven member states, plus the bulgarian and romanian observers. and in order to make it work even better in the future, you have been wise in providing for the implementation of a parliamentary reform: this also applies to the day when we adopt it. finally, you have succeeded, with the luxembourg presidency, in getting a statute for members adopted. i congratulate you. we all know that this is a particularly difficult task for you to undertake. mr president, dear mr josep borrell, you have been our president. the epp group has placed its trust in you and we do not regret it. you have always been open to the requests of the members of our assembly. you have ensured that parliament's voice is heard loud and clear, particularly at the european council meetings. on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i would like to thank you very warmly for this. i wish you good luck by borrowing these words from federico garcía lorca, excuse my spanish: "caminante, no hay camino. se hace camino al andar".
for the gue/ngl group mr president, at the beginning of this parliamentary term i replied as follows to your first speech in which you outlined the main lines of your presidency. "your comments", i said, "confirm our conviction that we can develop very constructive cooperation relations with you". that was indeed the case and i am grateful for it for several reasons. first i come to greet you as the true progressive. despite the constraints imposed by your office and the particular conditions of your mandate, you have been able to honour the ideals we share. a few days ago, in your speech at the humboldt university, you criticised the tendency, i quote, 'to allow social and fiscal competition to develop between our states, which leads to europe being seen not as a constructive response to globalisation but rather as a trojan horse that undermines social ties'. i agree with that analysis. this type of convergence alone could justify the excellence of our relations. but there is a second quality that you have shown that i would particularly like to emphasize. in fact, although your political positions and those of my group are similar in many respects, they do not overlap, and in some cases they are even very different, for example on the draft constitutional treaty. and yet we have appreciated in you, including on this very sensitive subject, your ability to listen to different points of view. i am not talking about polite listening out of indifference. i am talking about listening carefully out of respect for the other person and, therefore, a willingness to understand his motives. i am grateful to you for having understood the idea that we can be committed to the construction of europe while at the same time being profoundly opposed to its commercial and financial leap forward and the general competition that accompanies it: what we call liberal europe. i repeat it today, as we welcome our colleagues from romania and bulgaria: if we are to overcome together the crisis of confidence, or even of meaning, in europe, we need a critical attitude towards the current model. we are calling for fundamental changes so that the citizens of our 27 countries will recognise the union as their own. so our criticism is constructive, and i am grateful to you for understanding it. finally, when the president of parliament gives his political assessment, there is almost always a fact that emerges, an act that stands out, a trademark of sorts. if i had to identify this key moment in your term, i would say that it was last summer in the midst of the war against palestine and lebanon. as any political leader would do in such a case, you probably asked yourself: what can i do, even modestly, in my position to stop such injustice? your reply was to call all the group chairmen on leave to do on behalf of parliament what the twenty-five had proved incapable of doing at their level: to demand at least an immediate ceasefire, a return to international legality, the opening of talks for the exchange of prisoners and the speedy holding of comprehensive negotiations on the basis of all the relevant united nations resolutions on the middle east. we have not changed the face of the world by our unanimous resolution, but at least we have saved the honour of europe thanks to your initiative. for all these reasons, mr president, i thank you. i hope that your future responsibilities will enable us to continue our excellent and fruitful cooperation. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the its group. mr president, one president is leaving, a new group is coming in, the identity-tradition-sovereignty group. i would like to begin by thanking the romanian, bulgarian, flemish, italian, austrian, british and of course french patriots who have enabled us to form this group, while we await, i hope, the arrival of other courageous and lucid members. i also want to personally congratulate our colleague mr daul on his election. with this group we will have more visibility, more resources and more power within this institution and we will be the spokesmen for the tens of millions of europeans, 23 million according to my calculations, who without us would not be represented here in the european parliament. the national forces are the future of europe, the real future, the future of sovereign peoples and nations, of identities and traditions, as our group has said. for example, in the last five years, three patriots have reached the presidential election finals in their respective countries: mr siderov in bulgaria, mr tudor in romania, mr le pen in france, and this is just the beginning. it is to tell you what political weight we have in eastern and western europe. let me congratulate you, mr president, at least at the end of your presidency, although you may have been misled at times by slander against some of us, on your perfectly correct interpretation of the rules of procedure and the group declaration we made, and on your resistance in the exercise of your presidency to demands which i find sadly totalitarian. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. i find it extremely regrettable that there is confusion between the sexes and that there is a kind of collusion between the two main forces in this house, which are opposed to the electorate, which present different programmes, which are seen as rivals and competitors and which agree to appoint the president as well as to exclude a minority which does not agree with their dominant views. a word, mr president, on the balance sheet. parliament has certainly asserted itself in relation to the council and the commission by profoundly amending the services directive with the gebhart report, or the reach directive. i regret that in the so-called institutional triangle he refused to invest the italian commissioner buttiglione, and i believe that this intellectual and moral witch-hunt was not worthy of our assembly. the majority of this parliament, on the other hand, has suffered a number of setbacks, particularly with regard to the european constitution, which was rejected in its drafting by the french and dutch peoples. i hope that this rejection will be taken into account. what will happen in the second half of 2008, under the french presidency, that is to say under the presidency, perhaps, of jean-marie le pen, as we all hope? (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) yes, we have seen more surprising things, mr. schultz, in history. mr cohn-bendit, we have even seen you become a member of the european parliament. what will be europe's energy policy? what will be its immigration policy? what will be brussels' policy on the liberalisation of public services? on all these questions, of course, and many others, we will be present. rest assured, mr president, we will be the bad conscience of this european parliament, its vigilant censor, the tireless defender of the peoples and nations of europe who have made our continent and our civilization great. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
(the speaker speaks in a mixture of catalan and valencian)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my whole group, including those who cannot be here today for an urgent reason, voted in favour of my candidacy. why would you do that? we have always regarded the election of the president of parliament as a strong political act and therefore an opportunity not to blur the differences in political options between us but, on the contrary, to state them clearly, at least in the first round if there are several. this is all the more true this time, as the second half of the parliamentary term will be marked by the debate on the future of europe. mr poettering has consistently and unambiguously advocated a certain vision of europe in which most of the epp, conservative, liberal, uen and other members of parliament can readily identify themselves. it is well to acknowledge that i, for my part, am defending in this house, with the same constancy and the same lack of ambiguity as mr poettering, another vision of europe, let us say an alternative vision to what we call liberal europe. if i had to define it in broad terms, i would say five dimensions. first, there is the social dimension. we must put an end to the competition between social models which systematically undermine the social achievements of several generations. then there is the ecological dimension. we must resist the growing temptation to reduce our ambitions in the name of competitiveness in an open economy. a solidarity dimension as well. we must ban all forms of exclusion, mobilize all our instruments against inequalities in development, and turn our backs on fortress europe. a democratic dimension, mostly. we must stimulate the critical mind, dare to give citizens a voice, accept the necessary challenges. a global dimension at last. we must use our clout to change international relations. we must mobilize against the war in iraq, for a just peace in palestine, for a true partnership with africa, and with the united states, the principle of "allies, yes, aligned, no" must prevail. my candidacy is aimed at offering colleagues who recognize themselves in this demand for a critical spirit in relation to the current model and in this desire for change the opportunity to express their convictions. democracy is acceptance of the majority's choice and there is no doubt that mr poettering will be the next president of parliament, and he will be our president for all of us. democracy is also respect for people. i would like to say again that i can only commend mr poettering for his loyalty and cooperation in the conference of presidents, where we have sat together for seven and a half years. but democracy is first and foremost a debate of ideas, and then, in a few moments, it passes through a clear vote, a frank vote, a vote of conviction. we are all political leaders. that is why i have not felt the need to campaign for any elections. each of us must take our responsibilities with full conscience.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr hans-gert poettering, mr president of the commission, on behalf of the 277-member group of the european people's party and the european democrats, i would like to congratulate you most warmly on your election as president of our institution. the european parliament is the voice of the european citizens. from now on, that vote will be yours, mr president. for our political group, your election is a great moment. you have been the chairman of the main political group in parliament for eight years and we know that you have all the necessary qualities to carry out these new duties with great courage, determination, conviction and above all humanism. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have shown their confidence in you. i'm sure they won't regret it. i also want to congratulate jens-peter bonde, monica frassoni and francis wurtz and tell them how much i appreciated the high-class nature of their campaign. many national parliaments deserve to see this happen. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, europe is already grateful to you for your political and personal commitment to the reunification of the continent. the european parliament and the european institutions in general have already benefited from your efforts to strengthen their powers. we know that you will bring your experience, know-how and conviction to the benefit of all members of the european parliament. we know that as a european statesman you are first and foremost concerned with the human person, with respect for his dignity and freedom. i'd like to congratulate you. have a good one! it's a success! mr president, you will be able to count on the unwavering support of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. who would have thought you'd be a jimmy cliff fan, you can get it if you really want it! you've been dreaming about this for so long, i want to congratulate you from the bottom of my heart that you've got your dream job. - thank you. it's about time you became president; we recognize that. we have no doubt, like everyone else, that you will be an independent president. sometimes it will be difficult, for example, when you are to represent our house and would like to embrace a head of government. you can't do that anymore. you can do that as party leader. as president of this house, you must put the european idea before your love for a head of government. i'd like to see how that plays out. tomorrow will be the first day of your probation. (cheers and applause) secondly, i would say to you that the independence of a parliament is seen in the independence of the administration. i hope you listened carefully to the speech of my colleague monica frassoni. if not, we'll send you a copy of the speech so you can read it for your work schedule. it was about the independence of the administration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not want a politically coloured administration, but an independent administration! this is a work order to you, hans-gert poettering, as an independent president. i would like to add one more thing: i know that the debate on strasbourg is difficult. all our factions are divided. majorities, minorities - there are all positions. it would be an honour for this parliament to lead this debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think it is unworthy of this parliament that we do not debate what is being discussed elsewhere. make this parliament a house of controversy! this is the second job. (applause from the centre) the third point is that when we come to the debate on the constitution, i ask you to take the position everywhere that no intergovernmental conference can solve this problem, but only public debate. this parliament is the place of public debate, not a secret intergovernmental conference. this is the third and final work order. tell that to your favourite chancellor and to all the heads of government of this european union! we want this parliament to be a place of debate! congratulations, have fun with us, we'll support you! we greens also congratulate monica frassoni on this excellent result! (applause from the centre)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would like to extend my sincere congratulations on your election as president of parliament. regardless of the agreements reached between the groups and in view of the balance of power which currently exists in this house, your election is not only fully legitimate but also extremely logical. you are now the president of all of us and of all of us. i have no doubt that you are willing and able to play this role, without, of course, renouncing your ideas and your commitment. you have strong convictions that often underlie our disagreements. but you also have a real respect for ethics and a commitment to pluralism that allows for good cooperation. so we are confident. i wish you, mr president, every success in your difficult and beautiful task. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, the congratulations of the identity-tradition-sovereignty group are naturally well deserved. they are acquired by your person, they are acquired by your qualities, your human qualities, your courtesy and also by the hopes of an impartial management of this parliament that we form. we are certainly a little embarrassed that your election, which was perfectly deserved since you were previously the leader of the largest group in this parliament, was achieved by a compromise between the two main groups which, as i said yesterday, are rivals in the eyes of the electorate but, a little too often to our liking, agree on the management of this parliament and the future of europe. we are counting on you, mr president, to ensure that the rights of members are respected. these rights of members must be equal for all. the protection of the parliamentary immunity of a member who is deprived of his freedom of expression is thus valid both when the member belongs to the mainstream and when he belongs to the minority. the regulation must not be changed on the basis that these provisions may have benefited a minority group. i would like to take this opportunity to recall a memory. i heard the president of the sitting, our senior dean, mr berlinguer, speak this morning and he concluded very quickly by saying: 'i cannot give the senior dean's speech because the rules forbid it.' but the rules prohibit him from doing so because of an amendment that deprived the oldest dean of that faculty when he was our sensitivity. it was claude autant-lara, the greatest french filmmaker. it was after his speech, which may have been controversial, that this provision of the rules was amended. it is regrettable that this meanness has prevented us from hearing the speech which otto of habsburg might have made or, this morning, the speech which dean berlinguer might have made, even though he does not share my political views at all. finally, mr president, we are counting on you to defend us, to defend the rights and dignity of members. your predecessor, pat cox, was able to do this when mr schulz, for example, was attacked by the then president of the council. i have heard yesterday quite inappropriate comments about my group, for example from the commission representative, mrs wallström. the official should be reminded that it is parliament which controls the commission and not the other way round. there are no half-hearted members of parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause) i would like to thank
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, dear hans-gert, madam president of the council, mrs angela merkel, mr josé manuel durão barroso, president of the commission, i would like to express my emotion on the occasion of this first major debate under the chairmanship of mr hans-gert, mrs merkel and our president of the commission. these three figures are members of our political family, but i will not express a favourable opinion of the german presidency's proposals for that reason alone. it is also because of mrs merkel's personal journey, her political choice, the choice of europe, as you so well expressed this morning, madam president. what is the role of a politician? anticipate, make choices, take them in the face of public opinion. and as a european, i can only welcome the presidency's proposals on such essential subjects as energy, climate change, environmental protection, security and justice, immigration policy, economic policy coordination, development policy, international trade, but also relations with the united states and russia. the german presidency is taking a strongly european and even pro-european approach to these matters. on the institutional question, madam president, you said that you would not adopt a minimalist approach but would seek a point of balance between the position of the 18 countries which ratified the constitutional treaty, that of france and the netherlands which said no and that of the countries which have not yet adopted a formal position: that will be difficult, i grant you. some say it's very difficult, even illusory. but there is a long list of political ambitions that seemed unrealisable and yet became reality because courage prevailed over demagogy. let us think of peace in europe, the return of prosperity and growth until the creation of the euro, the end of communism after the fall of the berlin wall, and the reunification of the european continent: there are only lost battles that are not fought. your presidency, mrs merkel, has decided to take up the institutional challenge. you're right, i know. and our political family will help you do that. why are you right? because while we welcome the recent enlargements of the union, it is equally clear that the challenges we face require europe to have an effective decision-making system as soon as possible. the european convention was created in 2002 and drafted a constitutional treaty precisely to address the shortcomings of the treaty of nice. how can what was considered an emergency five years ago in a europe of 15 be less so today in a europe of 27? you will have the full support of the political family of the european people's party, which has played a leading role in this matter, in seeking a new dynamic that will enable europe to equip itself with the necessary tools to move forward. the german presidency, as i said, has chosen europe, a europe which suffers in public opinion from an image, let us say, not always positive, a europe which, paradoxically, is also perceived by a large majority of citizens as the most appropriate level of response to many everyday problems. this does not mean, of course, that everything can and should be dealt with at european level. the principle of subsidiarity is a major principle of governance for our political family. after the events of early 2006 and those of the last few days concerning the energy supply of the union and its neighbourhood, europe must speak not only with one voice but also with a firm voice to defend its strategic interests. i would like to reiterate my group's support for the german presidency and the commission's position on russia. the presidency also announced that strengthening transatlantic relations would be one of its major priorities. i welcome that. you said that cooperation based on dialogue and balance with the united states is a key factor for stability. the prospect of a transatlantic market can only boost our economies, boost growth and create jobs. so we have to work on it. on 25 march, europeans will commemorate the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome. a very important event, marked by the holding of a european summit and the adoption of a berlin declaration. let us remind everyone of the common values that unite us, but let us also highlight the priorities for the future of european integration. in the last 50 years, the world has changed. the reasons for uniting and for joining forces have changed somewhat, but they are at least as relevant as they were in the past. the role of policy-makers, but also of economic actors and the media, is to convey, in a strong and convincing way, a positive, lucid, far-sighted message, a simple message of responsibility. the new reality is that the major challenges can only be tackled within the framework of the larger regions. europe is one of these regions, perhaps one of the most powerful, prosperous and stable, one of the most democratic and therefore one of the most attractive. i am sure, madam president, that with your determination and that of your entire government, the next six months will be well spent. we will give our full political support so that, despite the complexity of the task, we can see in june what progress has been made and measure the distance still to be covered. i wish you much happiness and success, my dear president! (beifall)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to say to you, madam chancellor, that we in the green group share your youthful romance and your youthful love of europe. we have that in common, and we have no other word for it. however, we also have - and i am perplexed - a certain youthful impatience: what then? we love europe, we want to shape europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's life! i love voltaire, and i love rosa luxemburg, and in the age of women, we can quote women too. i would like to add that because joseph daul has mentioned it: i also dream of diversity during a presidency. so i close my eyes and imagine how joseph daul will have to speak in 2008 if a woman as president of france will restore this diversity before this house. it will be wonderful, and i dream of you walking hand in hand and cheek to cheek with segolène royal in berlin or paris. a new era has begun in europe. it's going to be diverse, more women, wonderful, wonderful! (cheers and applause) that was the word for sunday. this is political content, not cabaret. i have to say that, politically speaking, they are right in france with segolène royal. this is not a cabaret, this is deep, serious politics! (applause from the centre) i now come to the points you raised. the european parliament has a duty to act. my friend barroso said earlier that nice was not enough. not only is nice not enough! we do not want the intergovernmental conference which led to the terrible outcome of nice. so if you think we can restore the constitutional process in the darkroom of an intergovernmental conference, then the citizens of europe will turn their backs. we need a public debate, we need a convention, we need votes. sherpa politics, the time for reflection is over. i can tell you everything the governments think, everything has been said about the constitutional process. how do we force all the governments? how do we get the diplomats to make their compromises publicly and not in a darkroom? the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm going to be your challenge. and who says the convent created our problems? the convention has approved the first and second parts! then the governments came and forced the third part on us in thessaloniki, and then the convention had to work on it in two or three weeks. the problem in the constitution is always the intergovernmental votes. that's why we don't want them. (applause from the centre) you have spoken of europe's challenge in the middle east. that's right! but how? i'll give you a hint. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you've got enough problems with your csu! take it easy. i'll give you a hint, mrs pauli is right. (cheers and applause) another woman! women are destructive these days. but i wanted to talk to the middle east: it was clearly agreed here in parliament that we need a major regional conference. of course, such a meeting must be prepared. so it would be a good idea, following the example of the european union, where we started with coal and steel, if europe would initiate a major regional conference on water. the water unites all these states, israel as palestine, syria as israel. if we manage to create a climate of trust through a concrete project, i believe that the first step towards a long-term understanding in the region will have been taken. you said we should go along with america. but let us not lock ourselves up in the american model, where innovation is crammed into undemocratic patent law. that kind of thing destroys diversity. so that means not learning everything from america! then you brought up the climate problem. but let's not depend on california for the climate. forget about bush! let's go to california and see how the climate continues! (applause and cheers) there are conservatives who do something smart, martin. (calling) i was talking about the climate, not the death penalty. the last point: they want to promote talent. then think about how the german school and other schools promote talent. the german school system does not promote talent, but destroys it. that is what we have learned from europe. in conclusion, madam chancellor, we are of the same opinion... (disturbance) darling, shut up! what are you doing? (disturbance) we agree on europe, but we have to disagree on how. (applause from the green group)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam president of the european council, mr president of the commission, thank you, madam president, for your fine speech, your words on freedom and tolerance and your quotation of the great voltaire. among the heavy responsibilities which lie with your presidency, some issues will unfortunately be more prosaic, notably the launching of the process which should lead to the adoption, within two years, of a new european treaty. i would like to make a few brief remarks on this point alone. my colleague, gaby zimmer, will expand on this in a moment. my first comment concerns the joint declaration on the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, which will be an important message to our fellow citizens in this context. if i may make a suggestion, i would say to avoid excessive self-congratulation, too smooth balances, too abstract commitments, too long on the big principles but too evasive on the irritating ones! this would not in any way reduce the crisis of confidence we are experiencing, but would, on the contrary, risk reinforcing the growing scepticism everywhere. my second warning concerns the initiative - which is certainly not your responsibility personally - of bringing together at the end of january the representatives of the only countries which have ratified the draft constitutional treaty. i think it is unfortunate and counterproductive to point the finger at the so-called bad pupils in the european classroom. on the contrary, we need an open, frank and respectful dialogue with all the peoples of the union, without avoiding contradictions, otherwise we will be satisfied and we will not make any progress. my conviction, and this is the last point i want to stress, is that the unease about the current course of the union is not only french and dutch. he is european. and its main root, as martin schulz said, is social. that's where you have to change the substance. you propose in the programme of the german presidency what mr schulz has just asked you to do, namely, and i quote you, that in future european projects should also be examined in the light of their social implications. that's good. let's go, then! with the third railway package on rail liberalization, for example, or by extending the approach to existing directives, such as the services directive or the working time directive, or to future decisions such as the one on the modernisation of labour law. the proof of the pudding, your compatriots karl marx and friedrich engels said, is that you eat it. the proof of a social europe is that it is put into practice. so, to take up the logo of your presidency, together we will make europe a success. (applause) i would like to thank
i thank you, mr president, and the chancellor, because the next german presidency of the union will not take place until 2020, and you must now set the course, guide the destiny. of course there are the technical files and it would be good to sanction, for example, the future of the farmers after 2013. but fate is elsewhere. if you want to find the soul of europe, madam chancellor, there are only two ways. the first is that of orpheus who went to hell to look for eurydice, the european constitution, which he lost because he looked back. madam, go on ahead! do not turn, even to constitutional treaties. instead, make a strategic offer to france that goes beyond the 1963 élysée treaty. for example, in the face of the challenges you mentioned, be churchill rather than bismarck, propose to share a symbol, a franco-german connationality for example. but since you are looking for the soul of europe, the second way is the way of the world which europe has illuminated, from vasco de gama, mr barroso, to goethe. the real challenge of the 21st century is to build the world starting with the common parts of planetary co-ownership, that is to say the common management of food - eating - water - drinking - medicine - healing - education - knowledge. madam chancellor, you represent the people of germany, i am elected by the people of the vineyard, i raise my glass: viel glück.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in a few weeks we shall be celebrating in berlin the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, the fruit of franco-german reconciliation, which at the time required courage, determination and foresight on the part of the political leaders of the founding countries. these are the same qualities that the europeans expect from you, madam chancellor, when they are drawing up our future prospects. you said that the time for reflection on the constitutional treaty is over, the time for negotiation has come and soon the time for decision will come. you can be sure that you will find in our group all the support you may need to overcome the present difficulties. our priority is to find a solution that will enable europe to decide effectively, a solution that will respect the peoples who have said 'yes', those who have said 'no' and those who have not yet spoken. institutional reform, which would focus on consensus-building improvements, seems to me to be a beneficial option in the short term. it will enable the union to make progress on many key issues and thus restore the confidence of europeans in their institutions. it is a question of providing precise answers to the expectations and concerns of our citizens in the face of the great challenges of our time: the means of economic, industrial and scientific power, demography, co-development, the control of migratory flows, energy security and climate change, food security, the preservation of our social models, and also the dialogue of cultures and religions, the integration and the rise of china, india and many other emerging countries. for all these issues, madam chancellor, the key is political will. that will, we know you have it. we must do our part, we must influence the political leaders of our countries to follow you on this path, and i wish your presidency every success.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, in order to reconcile our two peoples with others, we have made a deal: a peace treaty. when your people got together, we made a currency, and it's the currency of trust. when the peoples of europe came together, we drew up a constitution: it is the treaty of welcome. and now we're out of business. it is up to you, portugal, slovenia and france, to get it done within the next 24 months. let me put some ideas to you. the word 'constitution' is not to be taken lightly, it is an irritating subject: some countries do not have a constitution and some countries have too many. on the preamble, don't touch it too much, because we're going to argue about the good god, and for having consulted him, "he" finds this preamble very good: don't change a word of it. on the institutions, keep the block, keep the base, we have to stick to that. on the charter, make it a rule of law. perhaps our british friends will not like this idea very much. maybe we should give them some time. you know they're always a little late. we have to be patient. as for the third part, let us take the new social clause for public services, ratify it at about the same time. you have no right to referenda, we are gluttons for it, you know that. anyway, let's ratify at about the same time. as for revision, let us relax and follow jean monnet's advice: "nothing is possible without people, nothing is sustainable without institutions".
i, in turn, would like to commend the quality of the german presidency's programme presented by chancellor angela merkel, which gives meaning to the construction of europe in many areas: values, institutions, the union's international role, the doha agenda, transatlantic relations, the partnership with russia, the future europe/africa summit, energy and environmental issues, the development of our internal market, the need for better legislation to avoid bureaucracy. two comments on the beginning of the presidency. i regret that the presidency-in-office was not present at the election of the president of the european parliament on tuesday 16 january 2007. in addition, in accordance with article 105 of the treaty establishing the european community, i believe that it would have been useful to have addressed the question of the use of the euro in the service of the union's economic policy, without prejudice to the objective of price stability. i will support this excellent programme, which was agreed with the future portuguese and slovenian presidencies and which will be decisive for the major debates in the forthcoming european elections in 2009.
chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. madam president, i congratulate you on your election. the committee on economic and monetary affairs wished to put a question to both the council and the commission on the convergence of control practices. however, the question in the council has clearly got lost in the limbo of preparing the conference of presidents. we are always happy to discuss such matters with the commission, but the issue at stake is a major one, including for the german presidency. we therefore count on its support in finding a place on the agenda of one of our very next sittings so that we can deal at the same time with the oral question to the commission and the oral question to the council on this very important subject of the convergence of supervisory practices in the field of financial markets. i also count on the support of the presidency of this parliament to secure a good time for this debate.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i congratulate you on your election. in this debate, i would first like to recall the european union's position against the death penalty in all circumstances, whether it be for the medical staff in benghazi, in the case of saddam hussein, in the case of political opponents in china or in the case of all those anonymous people who are less talked about, particularly in the united states. the right to life is a fundamental right, essential to human dignity, and that is why abolition of the death penalty is one of the conditions for accession to the european union and why it is a priority of the union's external action, which has developed specific guidelines in this regard. the situation of the medical staff in benghazi is a tragedy, a tragedy that affects families and children who are infected with the aids virus. it is therefore essential that the european union continue to contribute to the implementation of its action plan to assist the victims and their families. but is there any need to add horror to the drama? the palestinian doctor and the bulgarian nurses who have been detained for more than seven years now and who have been living in a permanent hell since their arrest did not commit this crime. many independent analyses prove this beyond doubt and the so-called confessions were extracted under torture, as everyone knows. so the medical team in benghazi finds itself held hostage to a shameful bargain and it's time this travesty of justice was stopped. the european union's efforts have so far failed to get the entire medical team out of this hell, and perhaps we should now ask ourselves about the european union's relations with the libyan authorities. indeed, as soon as we mention the benghazi case, everyone agrees that libya is not a democratic country, that the judiciary is not independent, that torture is common, that rights are violated. but as soon as we talk about managing migration flows, it's as if all of that is no longer true. and the speeches are sweet, calling for libya to move forward on the path to democracy and suggesting that human rights could be respected there. do you not think that, if this case is to have a happy outcome, a credible, coherent policy for the promotion of human rights and democracy, free of all double standards and taken up at all levels, would be necessary? that, i believe, is the condition for success.
madam president, this is a shocking, outrageous and unacceptable situation. this is the second death sentence for the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. the libyan judiciary is once again proving its iniquity and the political instrumentalisation of its judicial apparatus. the whole aids thing is just a bad excuse. in the face of the serious violations of human rights committed by the libyan authorities and the failure of all efforts, we must react firmly. i hope that the member states of the union will put up a united front against the gaddafi regime, speak with one voice and not give in to any of his blackmail. the member states could thus take advantage of the planned european tour of colonel gaddafi to agree to deny him the right to enter the territory of the european union until the medical staff is released. we must make it clear to the libyan regime that the eu member states will all stand in solidarity with bulgaria and will all act with the same determination as they would if this matter directly concerned their own nationals.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present to you my report on the certification of train drivers operating locomotives and trains on the railway system in the community. i would first like to say that this is an exemplary case, a rare case, too rare because it translates into european positive law a sectoral social agreement, in this case a prior agreement between the employers and the employees of the railways. all this is provided for in the texts, but, generally speaking, with a certain amount of certainty, we quite often get rid of this agreement between railway workers and the bosses of railway companies, or more generally between employees and management, whereas there is no longer any question of getting rid of it when everyone feels concerned by a european project and a directive. i am one of those who believe that in order to achieve the railway europe which is absolutely necessary, railway workers must join this europe and be convinced that, far from igniting a kind of economic civil war between railway companies, it serves the development of the railway. the text presented is quite exemplary. i would add to mr jarzembowski, because we have always had a disagreement on this subject, that it is not enough to set dates for liberalization to make the european internal market. this date battle is terribly restrictive. the european internal market requires first of all that trains be interoperable, which requires considerable funding. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation. the directive will have little effect on britain because there is only one tunnel to get into and there are few land borders. it will affect spain quite a bit because the track gauge is different. it will affect a number of other countries, which do not necessarily have direct railway borders with the union, to a limited extent: i am thinking of finland and greece. so the essence of liberalisation is interoperability and my report is about human interoperability, that is to say the recognition of a train driving licence throughout the union. i shall be thanking my colleagues today for their outstanding work. i would like to make the following comments on the directive. firstly, it is a licence for the whole network and not just for the international network, because we believe that every train driver should be able to have the ambition to go international and that there is little difference between driving a tgv, a high-speed train, within a member state or a tgv crossing a border. i think that is absolutely essential. secondly, the great contribution of parliament - which is also at the origin of a dispute with the council - is that we consider that aircrew who perform safety duties must be taken into account in a subsequent text, and we propose a road map. there are lives saved, on a regular basis, by train crew who have been trained in a number of tasks: evacuating trains, taking passengers to safety, signalling, activating certain warning circuits. it is quite legitimate for these qualified people to be recognised and, above all, for an attempt to harmonise their qualifications in all the countries of europe to avoid some of them being underqualified. this is a security issue and not just a social issue. parliament has made a proposal on this and we think it is very important to do so now: we are indeed in a world of several railway companies and it is quite legitimate, since we are making rail europe, to provide for compensation rules to be applied between railway companies when they exchange staff whom they have trained. in other words, when a company trains a driver at great expense and the driver leaves after two years for another company, a minimum of rules is required for the company that inherits the driver to partially pay the training company. as there is no railway university, training is currently provided by some companies, mainly the historical companies, and those entering the market should not take advantage of this to become more competitive at lower costs. i think the european parliament is sending you a good copy, commissioner. i am certainly not unaware of the remaining disputes with the council, mainly those i have just mentioned concerning the scope of application. i think, however, that parliament's position is correct. i would remind you that our colleagues from all the political groups voted unanimously in the committee on transport. so there is a strong position here which we will be making in conciliation, as we will in other cases, for example that of georg jarzembowski, who i understand is encouraging liberalisation, without however understanding... (the president invites the speaker to conclude.) i simply wanted to say yes to liberalization provided it is regulated and public services are preserved.
mr president, as you know, the greens are determined to put in place a genuine european transport policy which will enable a modal shift from road to rail. the road is 25% of greenhouse gas emissions, so the stakes are high. the question we have to ask ourselves is: will opening up to competition, particularly in rail passenger transport, solve this problem? i think, on the contrary, that the proposals in the jarzembowski report can be expected to lead to a risk of a deterioration in the service to users. tariff, ticketing, timetable information, connection management: how will users find their account among the different services offered by railway companies? the least profitable lines, which nevertheless fulfil fundamental tasks of social and territorial cohesion, are expected to be abandoned. it is also to be expected that there will be increased pressure on the working conditions of railway staff, as is the case with low-cost airlines in the aviation sector, or that there will be fierce competition for the most profitable lines without any effect on the final number of passengers carried. to strengthen the railway, a genuine european commitment is needed to finance the modernisation of infrastructure, the obsolescence of which is a major obstacle to its development. it is also necessary to overcome the obstacles to interoperability and adopt - this is crucial - a taxation system which actually penalizes the most polluting transport modes, such as a tax on kerosene or the internalisation of environmental costs for road transport. liberalisation is certainly not the only way of europeanising transport policies.
i should like to congratulate our new president-in-office: welcome to us, mr president! commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change requires a considerable commitment by the union to public transport, and rail in particular. the tragic accident which recently occurred in my region of lorraine, caused by a faulty railway system, has dramatically highlighted the urgent need to standardize the railway system, which is a serious problem. because it concerns the notions of access to a public service, of spatial planning, standardization implies the utmost caution, as the minister has just acknowledged. therefore, the liberalization proposed by mr jarzembowski's report is not a relevant approach in my view. apart from the fact that opening up to competition will jeopardise the public service missions provided by the member states, it should not ultimately lead to price reductions for our users. citizens who have to commute to work every day will not see any improvement in their travel conditions either. on the contrary! the opening up to competition should lead to a deterioration in the secondary lines, which are so important for local development. and what about the impact of liberalization on railway safety, commissioner? the transfer from road to rail is essential if europe is to achieve this. i would like to end by winking at the minister, who is not here, and tell her that yesterday's utopias are today's realities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am generally satisfied with the progress achieved thanks to the long-term work of the european parliament, and in particular of the three rapporteurs. this reform of rail passenger transport is a necessary prerequisite for the creation of a genuine internal market, which will promote the mobility of all europeans under optimum conditions of safety and accessibility and will help, i hope, very quickly to reduce the often exorbitant tariff conditions, without, however, leading to the disappearance of services. as regards market access, i would nevertheless like to express my concern tonight about the temptation to introduce a date for the opening of the national passenger market now. i am not in favour of a change in the council's position on this point, because a hasty opening of national passenger transport, which may be ill-prepared, could have serious consequences for the service. i would like to see impact studies carried out beforehand, particularly on the effects of opening up to the international market, on the cabotage system, which must be strictly regulated, and on the effects of the system of tariff equalization. why not consider a fourth railway package, which could provide a detailed look at the financing mechanisms, and especially the link with public service obligations, as well as the financing of the deficit lines? as regards the directive on the rights and obligations of international rail passengers, i welcome the work that has been done which will place a very strong burden of responsibility on railway operators and will eventually and i hope very soon grant more rights to passengers, especially those with reduced mobility. i would also like to thank mr dirk sterckx for his support for the amendment tabled by our group, which seeks to take account of the specific situation of suburban transport, which is more a matter of public service obligations.
i am glad that rail passengers are finally enjoying rights, particularly in terms of compensation, information and facilities for people with reduced mobility. on the report by mr jarzembowski, while the liberalization of international passenger transport is a good thing, which makes this mode of transport more efficient, i do not share the rapporteur's views on the opening up of national traffic to competition. if tomorrow our house votes in favour of the total liberalisation of rail transport, i would be sure that you would take two essential points into account, firstly the question of equalisation. we have adopted an amendment to that effect in committee. it should allow rail transport lines which are in deficit to continue to be financed when they meet public service objectives. secondly, if parliament decides to open up national rail traffic to competition, it seems to me important to ensure that during the transitional period when only international traffic will be open, we avoid a disguised opening up of national passenger transport by the practice of cabotage. the transitional period is necessary to allow railway undertakings to adapt.
madam president, i congratulate you on your election. i, in turn, would like to say a few words on this report on road transport. the road transport sector - i am sorry to say, as many people here are - is growing, which is why the union has made road safety a priority policy, and we all agree to recognize this. this report recalls the progress made and announces new measures which supplement the provisions recently adopted on the european driving licence and which are generally satisfactory. i will not list them, but they are so many advances. i would simply like to return to the question of lighting the lamps during the day, which i am totally opposed to. indeed, no reliable studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of such a measure. it is true that since the introduction of this measure in my country the number of deaths has decreased, and that is a good thing, but when we look more closely we see that the number of deaths per category of so-called vulnerable users would have increased, according to the figures i have found, by more than 8% for pedestrians, by more than 0.6% for bicycles and by more than 3.8% for mopeds, so more particularly for the latter. without going into too much detail, i would like to draw the attention of our colleagues to this aspect and ask for further consideration of the matter. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur and wishing her good luck in her new life.
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this very rich debate would require many answers. i'll try to keep it to the basics. i would like to thank mrs hedkvist petersen again. i also remind him that exchanges of experience are now part of our normal practice and that manufacturers have finally understood that safety can become a selling point: this is the euro ncap programme. the commitment of manufacturers to the european road safety charter has included safety belt recall devices and electronic stability control for heavy goods vehicles. i now give a brief reply to the speakers from the groups. mr koch and mr titley stressed compliance with the rules, control and sanctions. they are absolutely right: these are the first priorities. mr titley and a number of members referred to daytime running lights. we have seen that there was no decision because we consulted the member states. it is true that daytime running lights are operated according to different procedures. those who impose them seem to be relatively satisfied, but we have not made a decision on this. it is likely that dedicated daytime running lights will have to be expected. mr degutis, several member states which joined in 2004 are now making progress and their efforts are bearing fruit, as you rightly pointed out. mr. ó neachtain, the cross-border crackdown, we are working on it. i hope that by the end of the year we will have a system in place to deal with offences committed in another member state. mr meijer spoke of small-scale solutions. in fact, there is a shared competence between europe, the states and the regions. mrs sinnott spoke of the security of infrastructure. this is the subject of the commission's latest proposal. i cannot answer all the speakers. i believe that they have all confirmed the validity of our integrated approach, which is based on the triptych of driver behaviour, vehicle safety and the quality of infrastructure. the interventions confirm the convergence of vision between our two institutions. in closing this debate and thanking all the speakers, i would like to say how much i count on parliament's support for the legislative proposals under discussion: mirror eliminating the blind spot for existing heavy goods vehicles, infrastructure management and, soon, cross-border prosecution of offences. i thank parliament for its willingness to take the lead in this way. sometimes the member states are more reluctant. i feel that parliament is fully convinced that we must act decisively if we are to make progress on this major road safety issue.
the commission's vice-president madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr josé ribeiro e castro, and the committee on development and cooperation for their positive assessment of the amendment to the cotonou agreement, which is the cornerstone of the partnership between the acp countries and the european union. this amendment will allow us to deepen our partnership and extend it to security issues such as the fight against terrorism, the prevention of mercenary activities and the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. this agreement will lead to a more systematic, more institutional dialogue on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. this dialogue will take place before the start of the consultation procedure, known as the article 96 procedure, except in the case of special emergencies. i would like to stress the increased role of national parliaments and the joint parliamentary assembly in this context. the revised agreement also maintains the aid volume at the same level as the ninth european development fund by adding inflation, the impact of eu gdp growth and the enlargement to the ten new member states in 2004. as you know, this decision in principle resulted in a commitment of some eur 22 billion at the meeting of the acp-eu council of ministers in port moresby in june 2006. this is the total amount of the 10th european development fund for geographical cooperation with acp countries for the six-year period from 2008 to 2013. on an annual basis, this represents a nominal increase of 35% over the 9th european development fund. finally, as no amount of money from the 9th european development fund can be committed after 31 december 2007, it is essential that the revision of the cotonou agreement, and the so-called internal agreement of the 10th european development fund, be ratified by all member states before the end of 2007. without this, operations of the 10th european development fund will not be able to start on 1 january 2008. i am convinced, and i am speaking here on behalf of my colleague louis michel, that the assent of the european parliament will send a strong signal to the member states and will speed up the internal ratification procedures.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, first of all i am very pleased to see you in this presidency, there are so few women in it. the revision of the cotonou agreement was a major issue. we wanted to give it a real political content by refocusing it on the millennium development goals and the eradication of poverty. the revision, however, does not quite live up to his ambitions. our group has had occasion to express its disagreement on several occasions, particularly on two points. the first concerns the integration into the core values of the agreement of two commitments: one on terrorism, the other on weapons of mass destruction. we are not opposed to it per se, but we believe that the principles of democracy and respect for human rights must remain the main reference points of this agreement. the second point concerns the financial aspect. the tenth edf, which was the subject of bitter negotiations, could not be included in the revision agreement. however, there is no question of refusing to give assent today, firstly because there has been progress on many points, such as the strengthening of political dialogue, the reference to national parliaments as beneficiaries of aid, or the support for the international criminal court by the signatories of the agreement. secondly, because our acp partners themselves have accepted the revision agreement and are eager to implement its financial part, for which we have obtained, i believe, a fairly acceptable amount. so there's no need to look back, it's a new fight that's ahead of us now. we must ensure that every euro is really used for development purposes and thus ensure better programming of the tenth edf. for example, by setting policy objectives to allocate 20% of the amounts to health or basic education in the acp countries, or by giving more importance than it has today to the gender issue in our development policy. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the work that awaits us in the coming weeks.
on behalf of the its group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the revision of a complex agreement, the cotonou agreement, which has 100 articles, 6 parts, 5 annexes and 5 protocols. in this revised agreement, we find the entire briefing of today's politics, with human rights, democracy, terrorism, weapons, the international criminal court. the only thing missing is reach, whereas the acp countries are at risk of falling victim to this regulation on chemicals, with lost revenues and 315 000 jobs affected. metals, alcohol, oil, ammonia, which are the exports of 24 major acp countries, will fall under reach, which represents a potential loss of revenue of 6 billion euros for these countries. this is the heart of the truth of our europe-acp relations over the last thirty years. on the surface, from the yaoundé agreement of 1963 to the cotonou agreement of 2000, revised in 2005, and the lomé i, ii, iii and iv agreements since 1975, europe has been bold, especially with the stabex mechanism, which has protected cocoa, tea, coffee, peanuts. it was the spirit of the compensatory inequalities of the unced. europe has also been generous in its financial support from the edf. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the acp countries, the mediterranean countries and the countries of central and eastern europe. but the reality is different. in the figures, the acp share of the union market has fallen from 6.7% in 1976 to 3% in 1998, and while the gdp of a european was growing by an average of 2.3% a year, that of an african from an acp country, i dare say, was only growing by 0.6%. in fact, europe has forgotten the acp countries, just as it has forgotten the mediterranean. since the fall of the berlin wall, europe has been looking east, but more to the south. and worse: with the wto, europe has drowned the acp in the world market, as we have seen with sugar and as we have seen with bananas. the multinational banana company chiquita has been preferred in cameroon, which produces bananas, or in côte d'ivoire. the ultra-liberal europe has chosen to give a customs gift of almost 2 billion euros to the multinationals chiquita, del monte and others, rather than to the acp countries, which are now competing on an equal footing with these multinationals. cotonou, with democracy and dialogue, is very good, but when you have aids, human rights, it does not cure. in other words, instead of being revised, the cotonou agreement should be reworked to be bold on two points. firstly, the technical audacity of a new customs technology: instead of seeking, within the world trade organization, the reduction of customs duties and, eventually, their abolition, it is necessary to invent the deduction of customs duties in the form of a customs credit deductible from any purchase in the economy of the importing country. this customs credit would be eligible for subsidies, i.e. it would be higher than the amount of customs duty borne, for example, by the acp country. with new, flexible, refundable, subsidized and negotiable customs duties on the world stock market, europe-acp relations would be in harmony with the necessary free trade and the equally necessary protection of the acp. secondly, we must bring political audacity to a rebuilt cotonou. with globalisation, the challenge of the 21st century is to organise the common parts of planetary co-ownership - i.e. water, food, basic medicine or vaccine and education - all with a resource other than the conventional state contribution from the edf, a tax resource such as a vat based on the turnover of telecommunications services provided from space satellites. in this case, we would also be doing improved assistance under the name of co-development, but we would be gradually moving towards the planning of the planetary territory. we would regain the spirit of lomé and finally begin to build the world, which is the challenge of the 21st century.
madam president, let me stress the curious aspect of this parliamentary consultation procedure. our institution is asked to give its assent to the conclusion of the revised cotonou treaty, which was already signed in june 2005. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the matter. however, the decision-making process with the acp would benefit from the involvement of the european parliament. in the negotiations on the development cooperation instrument (dci) we have demonstrated our very high added value and our ability to promote the defence of interests other than those of the commission and the council. however, i believe that the revised cotonou agreement represents an important step forward, particularly in relation to the role of local authorities in development policy: for the first time, their role is clarified and they are explicitly recognised as full partners in the political dialogue. we just got the same recognition for the dci. the major challenges of development are at the local level. it is time to decentralize our development policy. access to water, health care, education are social services provided locally by communities close to their citizens. if eu funds are blocked at the level of central governments, there can be no effective aid that directly benefits the people. that is one of the reasons why i welcome the adoption of the revised cotonou agreement, and now we must remain vigilant about its implementation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although it is a late intervention, i welcome the fact that the european parliament has been consulted on this subject. the debate this evening allows us to welcome once again the progress made by the revision of the agreement, particularly in terms of improvements between the partners, due to their policies for the protection of human rights and the promotion of democracy. this consultation is also an opportunity to recall the concerns we had at the time of the signing of the text. i am thinking in particular of the article which classifies the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as an essential element of the acp-eu partnership. i would like to stress, however, that the main objective of cooperation between the two regions was the fight against poverty and the promotion of development. since 2005, new concerns have emerged. they concern the future of our trade relations with the acp countries. how can we reaffirm, as in the revised cotonou agreement, that the millennium development goals must underpin acp-eu cooperation, without worrying about the consequences of future economic partnership agreements on the well-being of the people of these countries, without carrying out an impact study before the start of negotiations? how can we reaffirm the importance of supporting the regional integration organizations created by the acp countries, while at the same time disregarding the existing groupings in the conduct of the negotiations and knowing that in the negotiations as they are currently being conducted, the interests of countries of different sizes and levels of development cannot be taken into account? the revision of the cotonou agreement has above all emphasised the importance of political dialogue between partners. it is on this basis that the european union and the acp countries must now work together to eliminate misunderstandings, to make gradual and constructive progress in the negotiations and to reach agreements which are fully in favour of the development of the acp countries.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the headings concerning the libyan authorities should be corrected. we've become a little more european. so we should replace "president gaddafi" with "colonel gaddafi". i take this opportunity to say that in paragraph 12 the word 'people's assembly' should be replaced by 'general people's congress', because that is the correct title. then "government" by "general people's commission". the point is to be precise in our addresses to the libyan authorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my portuguese colleague, josé ribeiro e castro, on the legislative resolution on the draft european council decision amending, as part of the five-year review, the cotonou agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states (acp) and the european union of march 2000. the new procedure for political dialogue, the increased role of parliaments, the reference to the international criminal court, regional cooperation, the reference to the millennium development goals (mdgs) and, finally, cooperation in the fight against weapons of mass destruction give this revision a greater prestige than one might think. moreover, thanks to the compromise reached by the acp-eu joint council in june 2006, the financial agreement of €26 billion for the period 2008-2013 is good news for the european union's place among the acp partners.
in writing. i voted in favour of the main points of my excellent german colleague, mr georg jarzembowski's very good report, which deals with the recommendation for second reading on the amendment of the 1991 directive on the development of community railways and the 2001 directive on railway infrastructure (3rd railway package). it is essential to introduce more competition in rail passenger transport in continuation of what has been done, rightly, for freight. this is the necessary condition for an increase in services at a fair price. however, like my political group, the ump, i have not joined in a pace of liberalization too strong for internal traffic in the member states to allow the incumbent operators to prepare for competition. i hope that parliament will find, in conciliation, an acceptable compromise to move this sector rapidly from the administered economy to the social market economy. the development of rail transport for people at fair prices, as well as for goods, is one of the essential conditions for the proper functioning, development and competitiveness of our european internal economic market, which is a source of prosperity, and for the social needs of our citizens.
in writing. once again, the ultra-liberal ideology promoted by brussels is present in this dossier on the third railway package. the aim is to accelerate the liberalisation of international passenger traffic by 2010 and of domestic traffic by 2017. if the end justifies the means, it is regrettable that the means and precautions taken in this matter are weak to prevent railway undertakings and employees, currently protected by their public status, from being left to the savage competition of the world rail market. the commission, the council and parliament seem not to have learned the lessons of the privatisation of the british railways in 1993, which resulted in more train accidents, delays, deterioration of infrastructure, higher fares and the dismissal of 50% of the total workforce. the situation is such that many people in britain are now campaigning for the renationalisation of the railways. such a europe must not exist, it must not be built at the expense of security, employment and vocational qualifications. we reject this anti-national philosophy which destroys national jobs and systematically ensures foreign preference.
in writing. following the adoption of the second rail freight package, the commission proposes nothing less than full liberalisation of all international and domestic passenger services by 2010 and 2017. this ultra-liberal acceleration comes at a time when the question of the viability of the liberalisation of french rail freight is being raised. in december 2006, sncf noted that, despite the european measures designed to reduce road transport, there had been a free fall in the volume of rail freight. what about the future effects of the third package? we are heading for economic and social failure, which is predictable. this is a lesson which our european leaders should learn, if only by recalling the disastrous experience of the liberalisation of british railways in 1993. let us not make the same mistakes by favouring anti-national ideology over national jobs and preserve the unification of the french railway. the liberalisation of the railways is the risk of insecurity. we'll have too many private players on the same rail network. safety must always take precedence over return on investment alone. the railways, given their importance, must remain a viable public service, but above all a safe one.
in writing. i voted to withdraw this report because it is urgent to stop the liberalisation and deregulation of public services, especially for passenger transport. the eu must also be aware of the negative consequences of its policy and the growing rejection of its citizens, since it refuses to take a public view of these conditions. we cannot accept any new opening up to competition as long as a framework directive on public services does not provide guarantees for equality and spatial planning, tariff policies ensuring the necessary equalization or future investments ensuring the modernization and quality of infrastructure. all indications are that safety and rail services, especially where the profitability of the service is low, will decline in europe, which will also go against the objectives of combating the greenhouse effect and increase inequalities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the very good report by my colleague gilles savary on the recommendation for second reading for the adoption of the directive on the certification of train drivers on the railway system in the european community. i share the view that there should be a distinction between the diet of the driver and that of the other crew members. it is also important that the european driver certification process be rapidly established so that this certification can be operational at the same time as rail freight is developing under the impetus of competition which will arise with the economic liberalisation of this sector. these considerations are a guarantee of quality and therefore of safety. i hope the european council will have the wisdom to take this into account.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the european parliament on the great wisdom it has shown in postponing the liberalization of the railway system and of national railway systems. i am personally very much in favour of the opening up of the networks and i am a strong supporter of the construction of a railway europe without frontiers, which will effectively mean the end of national monopolies. that said, i consider that the way in which the european commission proposes to liberalize, which is reduced to a battle of deadlines and dates, is unacceptable and will naturally lead to the concentration of the railway economy around a few large companies, with the disappearance of many national companies, a great fight over the most profitable market segments, that is to say the high-speed lines, and probably a very great difficulty in financing the budget lines relating to spatial planning. the train is also the regional train, it is also the mainline train, which is often in deficit, which is financed by what are now the main international lines, and i am very concerned to see that this aspect of things has not really been taken into account. how can we finance small railway lines which are very useful when the financing and margins of railway companies are going to dry up as a result of opening up to international competition? that's a question we need to answer. we have until 2010 and i personally hope that the financing of the public service and the lines for spatial planning will soon be on the agenda of our assembly.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my uk colleague diana wallis, which deals with the recommendation for second reading for the adoption of the regulation on non-contractual obligations. while, as a rule, the law applicable to a non-contractual obligation is the law of the country in which the damage occurred, this report, if followed, will allow, for example in the case of personal injury following a car accident, the law of the country of the victim to be applied. given the complexity of the situations, this position allows people to be put back in the situation they were in before the accident. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the work of compromise will not be easy.
in writing. the rome ii regulation is intended to facilitate the handling of crossborder disputes by extending to many situations the application of the general rule that the law applicable to a non-contractual obligation is the law of the country in which the damage occurred. we are in favour of harmonizing the rules on conflicts of laws, which alone can increase legal certainty. it should still be precise and clear, which is far from always the case. the rules on the specific issue of road accidents, but also on cases of defamation or violation of privacy by means of a written or audiovisual media, are designed to protect the victim by making it easier for him to obtain redress. while freedom of the press and freedom of expression must be guaranteed, they must not unduly restrict the rights of the persons concerned. this report provides for safeguards through the adoption of standard rules on conflicts of laws, and we shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution of the political groups condemning the verdict of the libyan criminal court which found guilty and sentenced to death five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor accused of having voluntarily injected the aids virus into nearly five hundred children. this resolution is an opportunity to renew my radical opposition to the death penalty, the abolition of which contributes to the strengthening of respect for human dignity and the defence of human rights.
in writing. the own-initiative report on the seventh and eighth annual reports of the council on the european union code of conduct on arms exports has just been adopted by a large majority. i congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his work and the consensus reached on this text. the report stresses the need to adopt the code of conduct as a common position in order to strengthen its legal effects on the control of arms exports and to harmonize national legislation in this field. it also called on the european union and its member states to support the adoption of an international treaty on arms exports under the auspices of the united nations, which i believe would be useful. it also provides some necessary clarifications on the content and scope of the code of conduct and rightly proposes that respect for human rights should become a general criterion for arms exports. the european union must now, more than ever, do its utmost to emerge as a responsible global actor recognised for its efforts to combat the proliferation of weapons, the source of many conflicts and grave violations of human rights.
in writing. the report by my colleague highlights the progress made in road safety and the fight against road accidents. the number of deaths on european roads fell by 17.5% between 2001 and 2005. we can only be pleased. but it is obvious that this is not enough, because more than 40 000 deaths are still recorded every year in the european union. the many proposals made here in the field of road safety are, not surprisingly, in the field of "all-repressive" as is the case in france, but concern in particular training, the quality of the car fleet and the state of the road infrastructure. we support these proposals. in france, the number of road deaths is decreasing every year, but the anger of those without permits is growing. in addition to the fear of the police, automatic penalties for speeding, even for 1 km/h, have become a reality. of 36 million drivers, 3.5 million lost points and nearly 70,000 administrative cancellations were issued. if the ultimate goal of road safety is to be achieved, the "driver chase" must end.
in writing. while an integrated approach to gender equality, particularly in the field of employment, is a necessity, its implementation and enforcement in an authoritarian and mandatory manner is quite different. but unfortunately that is what is proposed in the report by my excellent colleague, mrs zaborska, who, in the name of dignity and equality for women, asks us to vote in favour of a compulsory system of quotas on the lists of political parties. i believe that we must not give in to the temptation of the 'women at all costs' ideology. this would be counterproductive and ultimately detrimental to the image of women. these would ipso facto be subject to the irrefutable presumption of incompetence and lack of legitimacy, whatever their value. it is necessary to promote access to certain positions or functions for women who have hitherto been excluded or under-represented, but we must not go to excesses and demagogy which will only harm women.
for the greens/efa group madam president, last week, during the debate on benghazi, we stated our total opposition to the death penalty in all circumstances. it is important today to reaffirm this principle enshrined in article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights. the union has always advocated the abolition of the death penalty, even making it a condition of membership. it has also made it a guiding principle of its foreign policy; guidelines were adopted in 1998 and civil society projects are regularly funded under the european initiative for democracy and human rights (eidhr). this effort is rewarded. the number of executions has decreased in the united states, and countries such as mexico, liberia, the philippines and moldova have abolished the death penalty. there are, however, opposite trends. in the united states, some states have expanded the death penalty to include other crimes beyond murder; in singapore, a person is still on death row for possession of 15 grams of heroin and china is still the country with the highest number of executions in the world. in addition, countries such as iraq and afghanistan have reinstated the death penalty. peru also came close to doing so in the name of fighting terrorism. it's finally changed, and it's happy. in such a climate and on the eve of the third world congress, the eu must be more vigilant. the international mobilization for a universal moratorium on the death penalty must be seen as part of an abolitionist policy. ratification of the second protocol to the international covenant on civil and political rights aimed at the abolition of the death penalty should therefore be one of the priorities of the union. it is imperative that france, latvia and poland, which have not yet ratified the protocol, do so as soon as possible.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i am pleased that we are having this debate at the same time as the intergovernmental panel on climate change is meeting in paris, and we are all awaiting the conclusions. in this connection, i would suggest, madam president, that we invite the chairman of this group, dr pachauri, who is bringing together the world's leading scientists on the subject, to a public hearing in the european parliament. i had the good fortune to meet him briefly yesterday in paris, and i am convinced that his explanations and recommendations would be of great use to us in the battle that lies ahead and awaits us if we are to contribute to meeting this challenge of civilization. where are we, indeed? i would say that we must send our citizens a message that is both lucid and motivating, that is to say, a message that emphasizes both bad news and good news. the bad news is the current situation. the world has seen a further deterioration in the last six years, and in the european union we are off track to meet our already very insufficient kyoto commitments. if we were to continue at this rate, we would be leading the planet into unsustainable upheaval, not just for future generations, but for the one that is already emerging. that's the bad news, and it's serious. now, the first good news is that it is possible to reverse this trend. (applause from the centre and the right) if you are only interested in the climate issue in front of the journalists, i am sorry to say that i counted you when the council and the commission were discussing it earlier: there were not more than 50 members in the chamber. don't just come to vote without knowing. come and join the debate, or at least respect those who speak! (applause) i would like to thank after the bad news, here is the first good news we can bring to our fellow citizens: it is possible to reverse the trend, but it is a real revolution, let us admit it. the targets for reducing emissions are known: 50% reduction worldwide, and therefore 75% reduction in our countries by 2050. this is not only through a substantial increase in the share of clean energy, but also through a new approach to energy efficiency, which implies a rapid development of railways and motorways of the sea, the imposition - as has been said - of ambitious anti-pollution standards on car manufacturers, despite the pressure of mrs merkel, the massive construction of more energy-efficient housing, training in more sober technologies, international trade based on cooperation rather than competition, massive long-term investments, the consideration of the notion of the common good, to name a few serious attacks on liberal globalisation. secondly, there is good news: the awareness of these issues is growing dramatically in public opinion, including in the united states and in emerging countries. that's the number one key to the success of this historic bet. but beware, i doubt that the people will accept a malthusian answer to the problems we face. overcoming economic productivity does not mean curbing social development. the fight against climate change will not be a smooth one. (applause from the left and centre)
the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on climate change.
mr president, we are faced with a fourfold challenge: firstly, the climate risk itself and the political will to deal with it; secondly, international participation in the fight against climate change; and thirdly, the innovation needed to change the way energy is produced and used; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information available to the public. i would be tempted to say: what is europe waiting for to really open the debate on nuclear energy? a serious debate, without passion. i'm asking you not to delay him. the alternative of renewable energy is certainly an attractive solution, but we have no choice but to be realistic. two examples: wind and biofuels. the former accounts for 0.05% of world energy consumption. how fast must wind power be developed to catch up with a global consumption which is growing by 2% a year in 30 years? it's just out of our hands. as for biofuels, they are an interesting and media-friendly way of addressing an agricultural policy problem, but the possibilities offered by biofuels are limited by the available agricultural land. mr dimas, you will have to convince your colleague, mr verheugen, not to put the brakes on our ambitions. there are, mr minister, battles that will have to be fought with certain industries which, faced with this global threat, are fighting in the rear. i am convinced that the german car manufacturers will be able to provide the real, right answers. and you will! finally, what can be said about third countries? china, for example, to tell him that he has no right to develop his economy? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in conclusion, those who make catastrophism can only destabilize public opinion. we need to raise awareness, educate, but scaring people is useless. it's not constructive. so we have to work to come up with the right solutions. it's a team effort, and time is our only priority.
mr president, will fossil resources be exhausted by 2030-2050? will the iter project have delivered on the promise of fusion? given the enormous growth of china and india, will energy resources be sufficient? what will be the effects of growth on the climate? we do not necessarily have all the answers to these questions, but we are certain that action is needed within the framework of a european and global strategy, because energy is a vital need and we must put a stop to the phenomenon of global warming. i support the ambitious targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, because the european union must send a strong signal to change behaviour, to think differently, to find innovative solutions, to have a say on the international stage. i also support the measures proposed by the european commission, but they must be accompanied by a political gesture. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy policy. the commission is also proposing to introduce a european communication campaign, supported by the media, to show european citizens the simple steps that everyone can take to help protect the climate. the future depends on fundamental technological developments and on actions that we can all take today.
at the very moment when international experts are meeting in paris to discuss climate change and its consequences, it is a strong signal that we are meeting to discuss the same subject. global warming is not a fantasy created by a few scientists and politicians looking for publicity, it is a reality that we must now deal with. and it's our role as legislators to make rules to limit the consequences of climate change. this is the case, among other things, with the commission's proposal to include aviation in the emissions trading system. this legislation is necessary to enable us to control the impact of the significant development of air traffic. however, we must be careful how we decide to implement this mechanism, because the aim is not to put european airlines at a disadvantage or to curb the growth of air traffic, but to limit its impact on climate change. and if we are to have a real impact on co2 emissions, i would like the union to legislate also on other modes of transport, particularly in the automobile sector.
author. mr president, with the lessons of the pnr case, we should be able to make faster progress in the swift case. mr gloser, let me just correct you on one point: i think this is the first time we have had a specific debate on the swift case here in the plenary, and that is probably in the normal order of things, but i hope that this debate will allow us to make progress. swift is not a company that operates only in europe or only between europe and the united states. it operates everywhere. it is simply that after 11 september the nature of the relationship between swift and the us authorities was clearly upset and we are now seeing the consequences of this in the area of data protection for the european union, but also in the balance that must exist between data protection, the fight against terrorism, the security of payment systems and economic espionage. the commission acknowledges that there is a problem. she starts making proposals. the central bank, in its letter to president cavada and myself, also recognizes that further steps must be taken, without going too far in the proposals and confirming what it told us at the hearing, which, unfortunately, neither the council nor the commission had considered it worthwhile to attend. the central bank had then indicated to us that it had little responsibility in this matter and its letter partly confirms this attitude. reading the memorandum between swift and the us treasury in april 2004, it is clear that there are data protection issues in the way swift passed this information to the us treasury. just as a train driver cannot be held responsible for what he is carrying, just as the post office cannot be held responsible for the mail it carries, swift cannot be held totally responsible for the data it communicates. the main point to be taken from the hearing jointly organised by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties last october is the report of the article 29 working party which, on 22 november, clearly confirmed our concerns, namely that, clearly, in the swift case, data which should not have been concealed from the us authorities had been concealed and that, in these circumstances, the 1995 directive had not been respected. we thank the commissioner for the initiative which has been to ask the member states to remedy compliance with the 1995 directive without delay, but as he himself has said, the result so far is rather weak. the ecb, for its part, drew the lesson that it had to ask customers for consent. this remains a matter of extreme caution. there are two things behind this question that we must raise. the first is the nature of transatlantic relations and the way in which this data is exploited with a certain sense of free and undistorted competition on the american side and, sometimes, on the european side - we have the experience of this in the economic and monetary committee - with a certain form of naivete. who would think that this data is being used only for counter-terrorism purposes? we dare hope so, but we have no proof. and, commissioner, mr council representative, if there is a message that i think this parliament wants to convey to you when you start negotiations with the americans in this area, it is that the purpose of these negotiations cannot be to validate the status quo with regard to the transfer of the data contained in swift. this must be to ensure that the level of protection and the design of data protection we have here in the european union is respected and accepted. and everything tells me that in this area the task will be difficult, but you will have the support of this parliament at all times. a minute more, mr president, to focus on the last aspect, which is the question of swift's status. swift is a company governed by belgian law and therefore we are always referred to the belgian state. that said, swift is a company governed by belgian law because we are in a legal vacuum. it is clear that swift is doing work which should really be that of a european body, supervised by a european supervisor. i believe that in this area too, mr commissioner, mr council representative, you will have to come forward with new data. this parliament, once again, is ready to discuss this, but we cannot accept the present state of the debate.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the controversy over the transfer of personal and banking data by swift to us law enforcement authorities and the ruling on the eu/us pnr agreement have highlighted the urgent need to define a comprehensive framework for the transfer and protection of personal data in the context of transatlantic relations. europe can understand the need for increased security in the united states and we want to strengthen our cooperation with american partners in order to combat terrorism effectively. however, it is also essential to address the issue of the protection of fundamental rights and privacy in the transatlantic dialogue. we are in favour of a new pnr agreement, but one which respects fundamental rights and provides guarantees for the protection of the privacy of european citizens. we therefore want the commission to give us details of the negotiating mandate proposed for this new agreement. the european parliament must be fully involved in this process. can you also give us more information on the work of the high level working group on data sharing and protection? we also want to know what priority proposals have been recently put forward by the american partners. as regards swift, the belgian data protection authorities and the article 29 working party consider that this transmission constitutes a breach of belgian and european rules on the protection of personal data. no concrete solution has yet been envisaged to put an end to this violation. all the parties concerned agree that there is an urgent need to find a european solution, a solution which respects fundamental rights and which, of course, can be implemented by companies. the european institutions must ensure that the payment system in the european union, operated by swift, complies with community data protection legislation. we therefore ask the council and the commission what measures have been taken to remedy this problem. is there any plan to negotiate an international agreement similar to the pnr agreement? you tell us that the commission has entered into a dialogue with the us treasury department in order to find a solution. can you tell us what solutions have been considered? in addition, during our last debate on the same subject, you announced, mr frattini, that a questionnaire would be sent to the member states to shed light on this transfer of information. have you really received all the answers you need and what follow-up will you give to this questionnaire? in addition, in 2006, parliament adopted, in codecision, its alvaro report on the regulation specifying the personal data which must accompany transfers of funds and under what conditions. it is clear that the transfer to a third country of banking data which has no specific link with that country falls outside the scope of the regulation and may constitute a breach of the fundamental principles of data protection. for the same reason, given that the transfer of swift data does not only concern data relating to transactions between europe and the usa, but also those relating to transactions within the european union, it would seem quite clear that this is a matter of the first pillar. an agreement within the meaning of articles 24 and 38 of the treaty on european union would not be an appropriate solution. we cannot accept an agreement to legalise the current violations on a case-by-case basis. swift is not legally required to use a mirror site in the united states. can we not find a solution in another country to move this mirror site with regard to european data, as the article 29 working party suggested? finally, swift, pnr, but also the automated targeting system, ats, and who knows, tomorrow, the telephone data, show the intensification of the exchange of information and the urgent need to define a common framework for the protection of the privacy of european citizens. do you not think that the european union should have a comprehensive approach to these issues, in order to establish general principles for data transmission and protection with us partners?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rise of the far right in europe is a matter of great concern and the formation of such a parliamentary group in our midst casts a black veil over our own history, just over 60 years after the liberation of the concentration camps. europe was created by taking into account its past errors and banishing them forever. but there are some members of parliament today who forget this, or worse, who deny it, and thus predispose us to reliving these situations. this is unacceptable and the political cordon sanitaire to prevent democracy from going bad, however essential it may be, is not enough. the core of the malaise is political and philosophical, but it is also economic and social. bad living leads to ill-being, which can also lead to fear and dread of the other and of their difference. let us therefore commit ourselves to greater solidarity, to greater attention to the excluded and the forgotten of our present, so that those who take advantage of the misery and misery of others do not pollute a european democracy that has been so hard won.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, commissioner, europe has almost 100 million rich people, unlike darfur, which has only few rich people. of course, there are 800 million children who are at risk of starvation in the world, but we have 14 million obese children, and that number is increasing. so what can we do, not to prevent them from looking like the characters in botero, but to save 7% of our health care costs every year? first, there would be the diet. besides the biafran regime, too dangerous; the cretan diet is there, but it requires olive oil, fruit, vegetables, white meat and, unfortunately, the reform of the cap is destroying our olive groves, our vegetable gardens, our tree growers, our chicken farmers. there are also financial regimes, which are very effective. obesity, in fact, decreases as one climbs up the income ladder. at the top, the rich are all skinny. so you have to make the poor rich to make them thin. but to do that, we would have to go back to the maastricht austerity pact, which produces the excluded and therefore the fat. so i have only one hope, that global warming continues, so that the little europeans go to school in the middle of the dunes, on their little camels, and exercise. i hope that none of these children, whose eyes are sunken deep into the orbits and whose stomachs are swollen with hunger, will read mrs ries' report, because there are two ways of throwing up: eating too much or reading a scandalous report!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate our colleague on her work and i particularly support her proposals on prevention, education and, of course, physical education, stressing the important role played by school canteens, which must provide children and adolescents with a balanced diet with healthy products. these measures, when they have been implemented in our territories, have produced satisfactory results and several studies indicate that such programmes of prevention and support for healthy eating have stabilised the rate of obesity among overweight young people, whereas it is, moreover, and overall, constantly increasing. the figures were recalled earlier. this is why i say that the commission must be urged to promote the widespread use of such programmes. however, i think it is necessary to recall that, in the face of this growing public health problem, we must also look at its deeper causes. the link between social background and obesity has been proven time and time again, and the main reason is the cost of food. an article in a french daily newspaper today was entitled "the rich are thin". the main reason for obesity is the excess consumption of sugar and fat, as opposed to the consumption of fruits and vegetables. and on this side of the spectrum, we cannot see how the horizon could brighten because it is well known that the evolution of the cap will bring sugar and even fats to the european market at prices that could fall by up to 25%, which would favour their presence in the products of the agri-food industry, while the prices of fruit and vegetables will continue to rise, with the result that they will remain inaccessible to the poorest. it would therefore be desirable for the european union's food policy to serve health policy by influencing the price of food and ensuring its accessibility for all, without neglecting the impact of socioeconomic policy, since it is, as a rule, the purchasing power of households that determines food choices. but until we have a review of our policies, we must already, through our food aid programme, ensure that fruit and vegetables can be provided to those who need them.
mr president, let me first congratulate my colleague, mrs ries, who has done a remarkable job on a particularly crucial subject since, as has already been said, more than 27% of men and 38% of women are now considered overweight or obese in europe. such people suffer psychologically from the way others look at them and are at risk of health complications, sometimes serious ones. in addition, as has been said, over 3 million children are affected by obesity, one in four in europe, and this statistic should make us react, especially as the rate of increase is alarming: almost 400 000 new cases a year. childhood is a stage in life when a great deal of dietary habits are acquired. it is therefore time for the european union to encourage the member states, since they are the ones who are responsible, to take the necessary measures to promote healthy eating and regular physical activity from childhood. it is imperative to inform consumers, especially young people, in addition to the actions undertaken by the member states, as recommended in the report. i am thinking here of the establishment, in the media, but also in schools and more particularly in school canteens, of information and consumer awareness campaigns on the problems of obesity. the report also highlights the vital role of health professionals in detecting the risk of obesity-related chronic diseases, such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, which are particularly serious for people who are overweight. on the other hand, the health professional's close relationship with the patient can contribute to education and information on the risks involved, and he can thus play a decisive role. finally, one of the major problems raised here is the lack of fruit and vegetable consumption, as already mentioned. we all know that it is essential to eat it and as the report says, people cannot consume it because of the high price. so let us look at some practical solutions to eliminate this intolerable discrimination in health. it is essential that the union closely follow the member states' concrete actions in the field of health and nutrition in order to reduce considerably the phenomenon of obesity, which is becoming more and more widespread in europe, especially among children.
the european parliament is being consulted this week on the first formal strategy in 30 years of eu-pacific relations. the strategy aims to strengthen political dialogue, improve cooperation and increase the effectiveness of development aid, of which more than a quarter is provided by the european union. for some key sectors, the strategy emphasises sustainable development, from an ecological as well as an economic point of view. this includes tourism, transport, mining, agriculture and fishing. in the committee on fisheries, i had an amendment adopted asking the european union to support regional cooperation projects on the assessment, monitoring and management of fishery resources, carried out with third countries in the area and the overseas countries and territories associated with the european union: french polynesia, new caledonia, wallis and futuna, pitcairn. i welcome the european union's willingness to become more involved in the pacific, with an emphasis on economic development, good management of resources or political stability in the immediate vicinity of our overseas countries and territories. let us hope that the financial means will match the stated ambitions!
member of the commission. madam president, i should like to thank the members very much for their comments on this important topic. the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises is crucial for the competitiveness of the european economy. it is, therefore, necessary to facilitate the expansion of these small businesses. looking at the legal form of companies that operate across borders can make an important contribution to this. i will take mr lehne’s report into account. as it is under article 192 of the treaty, we are bound to do it in a prompt manner. but even if it was not under that article, i will still deal with it in as prompt a manner as possible. i give you that commitment.
the creation of the european private company statute is welcomed by both the member states and the economic players, and i congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report and its pragmatic recommendations. i am very much in favour of the creation of this status for at least two reasons. firstly, because the adoption of this status would help to remove one of the obstacles to the mobility of smes. too often, business founders are reluctant to start a business because they do not have a good grasp of the legal environment, especially when they set up in another member state. secondly, this status would considerably increase legal transparency and thus increase confidence between the various economic actors. and trust is essential in business relationships and is the basis of a thriving economy. i therefore welcome mr lehne's report, with one exception: his recommendation no 7. the inclusion of criminal conduct in the statutes of a private company would mean amending title vi of the treaty and would unnecessarily complicate the articulation of that statute with our national laws. this provision therefore seems to me to run counter to the objectives of the statute of the european private company: to legislate better and to simplify the lives of european entrepreneurs.
member of the commission. madam president, the issue of the renegotiation of the wto government procurement agreement, known as the gpa, is important for europe as it should provide our companies with future opportunities outside the community. last december, after many years of long and difficult negotiations, the gpa parties reached a provisional understanding on a new revised text. i consider this to be a major achievement in the current context of the doha round. it demonstrates that the political will to reach an understanding on sensitive issues remains alive. the new text provides for more clarity and transparency, as well as better guarantees for equal treatment in the procurement procedures. it includes, for the first time, provisions for conducting electronic procurement. the european community played an important role during the negotiations. the existing agreement is unbalanced, both in terms of procedural guarantees and coverage. our main objectives were to fill the gaps and to eliminate ambiguities. we wanted to obtain better legal guarantees for our suppliers, similar to those offered by our internal regime. at the same time we sought to make the new agreement more attractive for developing countries via new specific measures. the final agreement on the new text is subject to a satisfactory outcome of the market access negotiations which are ongoing. here as well, we need to rebalance the situation in favour of the community. hence the coverage our partners currently offer should be extended to the level the community has offered and it should be more uniform. we all want to see improved access for our companies to foreign countries’ procurement markets. the council emphasised in its recent conclusions on the commission’s communication ‘global europe – competing in the world’ that we need to achieve additional improvements in market access with our future major trading partners, namely in public procurement. the community has submitted a comprehensive request and offer which will give the other gpa parties all the necessary incentives to offer significant additional procurement opportunities. should we fail to get a substantial improvement from other gpa parties, we will consider taking the necessary measures to adapt the community commitments in the new gpa accordingly. in the absence of improved access for the eu to third-country procurement markets, commissioner mandelson and i are reflecting on a market-opening instrument to enhance eu access. the case of our smes certainly deserves particular attention. it will specifically benefit from the new text, with the introduction of rules on electronic procurement and, if negotiations are completed successfully, the lowering of thresholds of some parties. however, let me remind you that the agreement deals with rather large procurement contracts which are mainly undertaken by big companies. smes certainly have an important role to play, but mostly as subcontractors. this is why we have asked our gpa partners who currently maintain specific derogations for their domestic smes to abandon them. on the prospects of extending the geographical scope of the agreement, eight wto members are in the process of acceding to it. among those, jordan is the most advanced. china has indicated that it will start accession negotiations by december this year and, following my visit there last year, we are already preparing this important accession. as already mentioned, the community has pushed for better provisions on the special and differential treatment for developing countries. i believe we have achieved a good result with tailor-made new rules that fully take their specific needs into account. i am confident that if we succeed, this new agreement will constitute a milestone for international trade and create new opportunities for our companies.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate my excellent colleague mr daniel varela, and to thank him for having asked, on behalf of the committee on international trade, this oral question on the negotiations currently under way in the world trade organisation on the rules for access to public procurement. we must, commissioner, obtain exemptions for small and mediumsized enterprises. the subject which brings us together today is a crucial issue for growth and employment in europe. the wto rules on trade in goods and services do not apply to purchases by a state for its own use, i.e. public procurement. this is why, in addition to the marrakesh agreements of april 1994, some countries have signed a specific annex containing an agreement on public procurement on a voluntary basis. all the major countries which are party to this agreement - canada, korea, the united states, japan - with the exception of the european union, have excluded from their offer the markets which they reserve for their smes. this imbalance is unacceptable and the markets thus excluded are precisely those which interest our small and mediumsized enterprises, whereas smes in these countries have unrestricted access to all our public contracts. our smes are thus underrepresented in public procurement and we need to launch a broad debate on the origins of this underrepresentation. this imbalance must be remedied by obtaining a derogation for european smes in public procurement. we cannot accept such distortions. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, beyond this negotiation, what is at stake is the european union's willingness to offer small and mediumsized enterprises the favourable environment they need and to use access to public procurement as a formidable lever for growth and employment. the need to ensure legal certainty within the european union between the global legal order, european law and national law is also at stake. it is not about protectionism, quite the contrary, it is about increasing supply by having more companies for the customers. commissioner, there are three areas on the planet today: asia, excluding japan, which is a poor country with high growth; the united states, which is a rich country with high growth; and europe, which is a rich country with low growth. we have to ask ourselves. when we regulated the internal market by voting for the services directive, we built this internal market on the basis of competition laws and the european union paid great attention to consumers. we must now pay attention to our producers. the renegotiation of the multilateral agreement on public procurement currently under way in the wto seems to us to be a great opportunity to act and reflect on the role of smes in relation to access to public procurement. we must bring the good news of a european small business act with the logic of the social market economy to the internal market, commissioner. the debate is open and i welcome it.
mr president, my point of order is based on rule 182. we have just received the first news, mr president, of the election of the committees. the election of the committees' offices was prepared by a conference of the secretaries-general of the groups, which had, on the basis of the d'hondt act, reached a proportional distribution, ensuring the representation of all sensitivities, something which this parliament is proud of both internally and externally, where it does not fail to give advice on this subject to political bodies throughout the world. this agreement was not contested by anyone, especially not by the conference of presidents. it was outrageously violated, as one would expect, at the expense of my group alone. it is obvious that my group did not put forward candidates, including against communist colleagues, socialist colleagues, liberal colleagues or christian democrats, because it believed or pretended to believe in honesty, impartiality and respect for the word of colleagues. of course, it was not. these are vile, petty, and unworthy of a parliament which claims to lecture the whole world. in fact, this is a malicious move which could undermine the sincerity of the vote. we take note of this and reserve the right to exercise our rights by any other means and, in particular, to call the public opinion of our countries to witness. thank you, colleagues, for the publicity you have given us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr swoboda has already said it, it has been decided, so the debate is over! that makes all other considerations moot. if mr nassauer and mr tannock want to table another report, they will have to start from the bottom, and in five years' time we will then vote on it.
mr president, i am proposing that you add to paragraph 2 after 'the universal moratorium on executions' the phrase 'with a view to the universal abolition of the death penalty'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my lithuanian colleague, danuté budreikaitè, on mainstreaming sustainability in development cooperation policies. it rightly recalls that sustainable development is based on the idea that the needs of the present generation must be met without compromising the ability of future generations to meet theirs. it is good to regularly introduce the concepts of sustainable development into european and member state public policies: economic prosperity, social cohesion and respect for the environment. in the field of development cooperation, this is essential because the demographic changes in the world and the need to eradicate poverty make this a very difficult issue. the global affirmation of the concepts of sustainable development must be based on the strength of the european union, one of whose essential missions is this.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on development of the european parliament on the human rights situation of dalits in india. although i believe that the european union should interfere in the constitutions of nations only with discernment, i join this resolution in denouncing the unacceptable situation of the dalits, which is the result of the non-application of various provisions prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of caste. according to the report and many studies, dalits are the target of crimes and crimes that go unpunished. in addition, children and women are subjected to double discrimination at all stages of their lives - caste and gender - including sexual abuse. yes, the european parliament was right to denounce this shameful situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution by five political groups on an initiative for a universal moratorium on the death penalty. at the time when the third world congress against the death penalty is being held in paris, it was only logical that the european parliament should reiterate its convictions and call for every effort to be made to achieve a universal moratorium on executions, with a view to the total abolition of the death penalty. i am writing these lines with a certain pride as a member of a member state which, on the proposal of its president, the president of the french republic, mr jacques chirac, and thanks to the wisdom of its parliamentarians, should soon incorporate into its constitution the prohibition of the death penalty, which is already in law.
in writing. of course, there is france with its judicial affairs; of course, there is iraq where the judges of the head of state arrived on the missiles of the invaders; and of course, there's china, where everything is bought, even the bullet to blow your brains out, not to mention libya and the bulgarian nurses. but the death penalty today is, in the 21st century when obscurantism wins, in the hospitals of france, "the old are killed" to free the beds to make money on mondays. in the maastricht europe, where the future is being killed by cutting off the financial pipelines to investment. the ideological leprosy of the reverend malthus, of zero growth and of unsustainable underdevelopment, has infected the decision-makers. at the banquet of humanity, there wouldn't be enough room. so we let the heat, the syringes, early retirement and the rtts go on, tax law suffocates, labour law can hinder, budget law rationalizes and at the top of this scale of malthusian sentences, criminal law crowns this society with the culture of death. malthusian economics - the euthanasia state, the precautionary principle and the death penalty are all intertwined in the couple of pride and ease.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, mrs frédérique ries, on the european dimension of the prevention of overweight, obesity and chronic diseases. the number of people in europe who are obese has increased dramatically over the last 30 years. this is similar to what happened in the united states in the 1990s: today, in europe, 27% of men and 38% of women are considered overweight or obese. the european parliament's proposals are based on healthy eating, physical activity and care from childhood and throughout life. healthcare professionals, sport, the quality of agricultural products, school canteens, education, communication, nutrition labelling are just some of the factors on which the european union must rely to combat this scourge. it would be very important for the european commission to carry out a socioeconomic study of the consequences of diseases linked to overweight, not only in terms of health expenditure, which is known to represent between 4 and 7% of total expenditure, but also in terms of employment: unemployment, stoppages of work, disability.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague diana wallis, which contains a number of recommendations on limitation periods for border disputes in respect of compensation for personal injury or fatal accidents. the construction of our european area must lead us to do everything we can to make life easier for our fellow citizens. the same applies to the time limits for the harmonisation of limitation periods. the introduction of the country of origin principle, at least provisionally, is a very interesting idea because it would put the victim in the position of having the rights he knows. this report sends a strong message to the european commission that the european parliament is waiting for a legislative proposal which will have to be preceded by a study on this issue.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report of my colleague vera flasarová on discrimination against young women and girls in education. we must collectively combat the current situation where women are less likely than men to obtain tertiary education and lifelong learning degrees because of gender considerations. education is the prerequisite, although not sufficient, but necessary for the full enjoyment of all other social, economic, cultural and political rights and for the fulfilment of one's duties as a citizen. i have high hopes for the future work of the institute for gender equality. it is also necessary to combat all discrimination faced by women, especially the younger ones, when they are part of communities that do not respect gender equality by rejecting all forms of cultural and religious relativism that may undermine women's fundamental rights. finally, girls must have equal access to compulsory education with boys.
in writing. progress in gender equality in education is mainly quantitative. we must now strive for a qualitative improvement and a change of mentality, paying particular attention to the situation of girls and young women who are victims of double discrimination. i therefore voted in favour of mrs flasarova vera's report, which recommends that the commission and the member states implement a policy for national, ethnic and cultural minorities, with particular attention to a multicultural approach and access to quality education, in order to avoid double discrimination. the report also calls on member states to provide opportunities for access to lifelong learning for women and men who care for their children, and to encourage women to take up positions of responsibility and decision-making. finally, the member states and the commission should use all the means at their disposal to eliminate the stereotypes which contribute to discrimination against women at work.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my british colleague nirj deva on eu-pacific islands relations, which advocates a strategy for a stronger partnership. the european union is very much present in the pacific islands in a context marked by the fact that the majority of the pacific island countries have recently gained their independence. helping the poorest island countries to achieve the millennium development goals (mdgs) is a generous and legitimate ambition for the european union. whether it is fisheries, climate change, biodiversity protection, agriculture, tourism, infrastructure funding, support for education, health, the fight against corruption, support for democracy, in particular for the parliaments of these states, the use of the euro, etc., there are many issues where the european union's presence can bring undeniable added value, but much remains to be done.
in writing. after 30 years of eu-pacific cooperation, it is now time to move up a gear. that is why i welcome the adoption of this 'strategy for a strengthened partnership'. it involves a strengthening of political dialogue: we must support our pacific partners in their efforts to overcome ethnic tensions, as in fiji, or to promote reconciliation after a civil war, as in the solomon islands or east timor. in the years ahead, this political dialogue must also enable us to tackle together a major issue: global warming. to launch this enhanced political dialogue, we can organise with our regional partners the 'regional conferences' set up in the new cotonou agreement. the strategy includes common responses to the economic and social problems of the region. here too, the priority is to achieve the mdgs on time. the ongoing negotiations on the conclusion of an eu-pacific regional partnership agreement appear to be badly under way in this regard. most of the proposals from the states of the region were rejected by the commission. it would be paradoxical to vote today for a stronger partnership for development, which the conclusion of a bad epa would empty of its content tomorrow.
in writing. fisheries in the pacific ocean are a key resource for local economies, and vessels from all over the world, including europe, are active in the region. this justifies the fact that the committee on fisheries, of which i am a member, should be consulted on this report. the committee on development, which is the rapporteur, wanted to impose the report on us without the possibility of amendment in october, which was refused. the committee on fisheries was therefore able to propose improvements to the report: better regional cooperation, and above all the inclusion of the overseas countries and territories. the opinion of the committee on fisheries was adopted unanimously by its members in november. however, on the eve of the debate in plenary, we were told that our opinion would not be incorporated and that only a few items, selected arbitrarily, would be proposed as new amendments. in view of our indignation, it was decided to add our opinion to the final report as an 'erratum/addendum', without a vote, which is not much better. the strategy was designed in particular to strengthen the political dialogue between the union and the pacific islands. more dialogue between our parliamentary committees, which are not separated by thousands of kilometres, would certainly be just as desirable!
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague klaus-heiner lehne which sends a very important message to the european commission about the need to put in place a tool for entrepreneurs to be able to operate and develop their business within the internal market. i agree with him that the time has come to legislate to create a sound legal regime for a european private company (epc) for small and medium-sized enterprises with crossborder activities. it is not possible, in the long term, to want to build the internal market and not to simplify the lives of smes that want to develop. the proposals in this report are very interesting: it is a question of enabling smes with a capital of around eur 10 000 to have a single entity which can develop in all european countries without having to register in each member state and complying with a single set of european rules rather than with various national regulations. of course, the rights of workers are not affected by these proposals, which deal only with the structure of european private enterprise.
mr president, if i remember correctly, the conference of presidents had decided against referring the report back to committee. but if i understand mr corbett correctly, it is something else. if i understand correctly, he proposes not to put to the vote amendments which have received extremely few votes in committee, which is different. i do not think we have discussed this aspect in the conference of presidents.
mr president, as i understand it, mr corbett was proposing that the committee should meet tomorrow evening to filter the 180 amendments so that those which would not have received at least 10% support in committee would not be tabled in plenary. this requires, according to mr corbett, if i understand correctly, a meeting of the committee tomorrow evening. the problem is that his commission ceased to exist at the end of january. i am not being completely stupid, but it is february and the mandate given to the committee by parliament was due to expire at the end of january. so i would like mr corbett to explain to me how a committee can vote on things that no longer exist. theoretically, we should reinstate this committee so that it could meet tomorrow night and filter the amendments. i don't care about that, i'm just saying that's the problem.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the constant increase in the waste we produce and the need to revise the 1975 text, the european commission last year proposed an amendment to the existing framework directive. the intention was good, but the legislative proposal is not up to the challenge and falls far short of the objectives to be achieved. the proposed measures to prevent waste and thus reduce the volume of waste produced are not sufficiently concrete and are not binding. i also regret the absence of quantified recycling targets. the commission's proposals on hazardous waste are also inadequate in relation to existing community legislation. the objective of merging the texts in order to simplify them and improve their implementation must not be seen as weakening the provisions on the treatment of hazardous waste. as far as waste is concerned, no backsliding can be tolerated, especially when it is hazardous. recent news is a wake-up call. when you mix hazardous waste with other waste, you don't remove the hazardousness. we cannot support the possibility of exemptions from the requirement to hold an operating licence when dealing with hazardous waste. as regards the concept of energy recovery from waste, i understand the aim, but it is dangerous to confuse recovery with energy recovery. there is nothing to prevent the recovery of energy produced during incineration operations even if the latter is classified as waste. this is a point that needs clarification. such a proposal, which would make it possible to classify incineration as a recovery operation and not just as a disposal operation, would put waste recovery and energy recovery on the same level. but above all, it is contrary to the five-level hierarchy adopted by the committee on the environment and, therefore, to the objective of preventing and reducing waste. this objective is supported by mrs jackson's report, which considerably improves the commission's proposal. the waste problem is a major social issue which merits ambitious legislation. more and more surveys show us that a large majority of consumers want products that are more environmentally friendly, and they want to be better informed about the nature and quality of these products. we need to hear them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we produce daily household, industrial and mining waste which is very difficult to dispose of. waste management is complex and raises the question of our ability to respect the environment and health, but also our own european policies. since 1976 we have developed an inefficient common regulation. this second directive, a revision of the waste directive, cannot be concealed behind the simplification of existing arrangements. the numbers speak for themselves. the waste is constantly increasing: 3.5 tonnes per capita per year, or 460 kg more in ten years. beyond a regulation that can be converted into future devices, it is important to give european citizens a general view of the circuit followed by our garbage. the european hierarchy, based on five key principles: prevention, sorting, recycling, incineration and landfill, must not be called into question by the promotion of incineration. like many citizens living near incineration plants, i am concerned that the union is not giving more incentives for waste prevention and recycling, for example by setting up genuine recycling channels. we must drastically reduce the use of incineration and prevent it from gaining energy recovery status. on the contrary, it is important to increase recycling, with a target of 50% of municipal waste and 60% of other waste by 2020, with a gradual decrease in landfilling and incineration of all materials that can be reused, recycled or composted. i would also draw your attention, madam president, to the incorporation of the dangerous waste directive into the new regulation. dangerous waste must be strictly controlled, it must be traceable and subject to a very strict authorization system. we agree to prevent and reduce the impact of waste, commissioner, but to give in to the ease of incineration would not be acceptable.
mr president, i would first like to warmly congratulate our colleague, mrs jackson, on her very good work, which reflects the quality of her expertise on the delicate issue of waste management. i am quite satisfied with the clarification that has been given with the five-level hierarchy. what is important is first of all prevention, which is to reduce the volume of our waste and which really requires a lot of effort, and recycling. however, not everything is recyclable. the necessary market does not always exist. the recovery is therefore necessary, in the absence of other solutions, but with high energy efficiency. this hierarchy should be a guiding principle, but it should take into account many parameters, including local ones, as it is important to introduce some flexibility by varying priorities where appropriate, in line with practical considerations and the necessary complementarity of management methods. on this point, i also welcome the introduction in the report of the principle of the responsibility of waste producers on the one hand, and of the control and traceability requirements for hazardous waste on the other, which also cover the provisions governing the necessary authorization of treatment facilities and transport controls. finally, on the amendments concerning co-products or by-products, i am strongly opposed to a definition which would exempt certain wastes from environmental protection obligations; this definition would allow waste, considered as co-products, to escape waste legislation and not be subject to traceability and transport authorisation requirements, or in some cases to the reach regulation applicable to products. it is therefore to be feared that certain combustible residues from manufacturing and chemical industries, such as fuel oil substitutes, which are currently considered hazardous wastes, will be able to meet the proposed definitions for co-products which are not tempered by other criteria. this seems to me particularly dangerous because there is then a risk of a general declassification of all waste streams meeting these criteria.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should welcome the fact that our parliament is making bolder proposals than the commission on the recycling of waste. but what can we expect from a commission whose policy is to sacrifice the general interest of citizens systematically to the particular interests of the shareholders of multinational companies? environmental dumping of waste must be combated inside and outside the union. this issue should be one of the cornerstones of commissioner mandelson's negotiating mandate at the wto. it is about saving the planet, but also about fighting against relocations due to non-compliance with basic environmental rules. all waste produced in the union, including waste from ships chartered by european companies, must be treated in the union by job-creating industries under public responsibility. africa, india and asia must no longer be regarded as the garbage dumps of europe. local authorities have been able to anticipate, lead by example, innovate. i want to see the model plant for methanation and the multi-line recovery of waste that the union that owns my town has built. unfortunately, these exemplary achievements in the union owe everything to local taxpayers and nothing or little to the union and the industrialists. it would be good to take that into account and help those who have fewer opportunities than others.
mr president, like all our colleagues here, i believe that we need a clear european framework to tackle the great challenge of responsible waste management. i also think we all share the view that the new european waste strategy must make it possible to see in each of them not only a source of pollution to be reduced but also a potential resource to be exploited. i therefore wholeheartedly support the approach being taken and i welcome the remarkable work done by our rapporteur to modernise the legislation that has accumulated over the last thirty years on this subject. it is therefore essential, as has also been stressed by many, to re-establish a clear five-step hierarchy in a descending order of priority: prevention, reuse, recycling, recovery, disposal. this is achieved by maintaining a minimum of flexibility, taking account in particular of the economic aspects affecting the sectors. we have seen what it can cost to want to be free from these kinds of constraints, which are unavoidable. i would also like to say that i fully support the amendments to consolidate the definitions, in particular those on end-of-life waste, the responsibility of the producer of waste and prevention. finally, i believe that it is important, as has also been stressed by many of our colleagues, to strengthen the regulation on hazardous waste, in particular by imposing separate collection and reliable traceability.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are three points on which i would like to insist so that our parliament can improve the directive. firstly, we need to set quantified targets, particularly for the reduction of waste, which our committee on the environment has rightly set as a long-term obligation. this is important for the protection of the environment, but also for limiting our vulnerability in terms of the supply of raw materials, which we know are highly contested in the world. secondly, although incineration cannot be prohibited, it must be limited as far as possible. it's a disposal, not a recovery. of course, energy production is better than landfilling, but let's not get confused: incineration is disposal. thirdly, we must strengthen the principle of proximity and self-sufficiency in waste management, especially in the various forms of disposal and incineration, otherwise we will see the development of an almost uncontrollable phenomenon of waste transport, with an increase in the greenhouse effect and the risks of environmental dumping. but the best practices are not always the cheapest. a weakening of the principle of proximity to create a large waste market would benefit the large economic groups concerned and not the environment. so this is not acceptable.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs emine bozkurt, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the role of women in turkey in social, economic and political life (2006/2214 (ini)) (a6-0003/2007).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report by my colleague, mrs bozkurt, has the great merit of being clear and of taking stock of the sad reality of women's rights in turkey. indeed, despite all the declarations of intent by the turkish authorities and the pseudo-reforms undertaken in the field of human rights, the reality is that domestic violence, honour killings and forced marriages are on the rise, and discrimination in employment and education for women persists. however, this should not lead us to forget that, while it is true that these violations of women's rights are incompatible with the concept of human rights, as laid down in particular in the charter of fundamental rights, the fact remains that turkey is not european and has no intention of joining the european union. even if all the economic, legal and social criteria defined at the copenhagen summit were met, turkey, which is 99% muslim and 94% of its territory is in asia, would still not share our values, which are marked by christianity and humanism. turkey is a beautiful country, a great country, with a brave, proud and hospitable people. the privileged relations we already have with it in the customs union should of course be preserved, but under no circumstances can and must it join the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank parliament for this discussion and the members for their remarks. i think we can all agree that despite recent positive developments, the situation concerning women’s rights in turkey needs to be improved. while progress has been made towards improving legislation, implementation remains a challenge and needs to be speeded up. we are now looking forward to further positive developments and hope that the work of the european parliament and the commission will support this process. last but not least, i would like to underline the importance of the participation of civil society in this effort. i shall briefly mention some figures which might be of interest to you. this is in relation to the funds allocated by the commission. combating domestic violence against women: eur 2.968 million. strengthening civil society in the pre-accession process: eur 2.5 million. establishing shelters for women subjected to domestic violence: eur 8.5 million. through these and many other activities the commission will continue to support that which is focused upon in this report. let me once again express my gratitude to the rapporteur for the excellent work which has been done.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the agenda calls for:- the oral question to the commission on eu restrictions on liquids that passengers can carry on board aircraft, by ignasi guardans cambó, jeanine hennis-plasschaert, alexander alvaro and marios matsakis, on behalf of the alde group (o-0003/2007 - b6-0004/2007);- the oral question to the commission on eu restrictions on liquids that passengers can carry on board aircraft, by monica frassoni, kathalijne maria buwegiten and raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (o5/2007 - b6-0005/2007);- the oral question to the commission on eu restrictions on liquids that passengers can carry on board aircraft, by ignasi guardans cambó, jeanine hennis-plasschaert, alexander alvaro and marios matsakis, on behalf of the alde group (o-0003/2007 - b6-0004/2007);- the oral question to the commission on eu restrictions on liquids that passengers can carry on board aircraft, by luca frassoni, kathalijne maria buwegiten and raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the group of the greens/ale group (o5/2007 - b6-0005/2007); the oral question to the commission on eu restrictions on eu restrictions on liquids that passengers can carry on board aircraft, by ignasi guardans cambó, by ignasi guardans cambó, by ignasi guardans cambó, by ignasi guardans, jeanine, søren søren søren boer, søren boer, sander boer sander boer, alexander boer, alexander kartika, alexander karol, alexander alvaro, sylvia alvaro liot, sylvia alvaro lian alvaro, sylvia al
in writing. since 9/11, airplanes are no longer just a means of transportation, they can also be a means of taking the lives of many people. that is why new - more stringent - security measures have been implemented at airports and i fully support the process that has been initiated. however, the restrictions on freedom of movement should be proportionate. so while i support the main points of the measures taken, i remain sceptical about the restrictions on liquids in the cabin and the way they were decided. these measures are very cumbersome, they cause a lot of inconvenience to travellers, and their effectiveness has not been demonstrated, since their application varies from one state to another and even from one airport to another! moreover, the european parliament, elected by the citizens, was informed of the implementation of these measures only after they had been decided. i fully understand that some information should not be disclosed because of its highly strategic nature in the fight against terrorism, but i believe that we should be more involved in decision-making.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate you very warmly, mr hans-gert, on your brilliant speech, a speech of re-mobilization which europe is in great need of. you have presented your vision of the future of the european union to those who have preceded you in these high offices, and to whom i extend my greetings, and also to the representatives of all the european institutions. the vision of a europe that is both united and integrated, but also open to the world and aware of its international responsibilities, while being better identified with and closer to its citizens. the epp-ed group shares this view very much. i like the positive, constructive, self-help tone in your talk. we must stop being depressed about europe, stop asking ourselves what we are going to become rather than mobilizing for what we must do. yes, the european construction is a success! it has not only enabled the development of the prosperity of our states and peoples, but it has also guaranteed peace on our continent. we have changed the course of history with this project, and let those who say that this is no longer enough look around them in their daily lives: the benefits of europe are everywhere. it takes bad faith not to acknowledge this, but surely we need to affirm more strongly the convictions we place in our achievements, and learn to value them more. this is true of the euro, which is a success, but it is also true of our work as legislators more generally. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have every reason to be confident about our future within the european union. the challenges we still face will only be met in the context of a united and determined europe, and certainly not in that of a europe that is morose or looking only to its past. our group shares your priorities, mr president, which seem to us to meet the great challenges of the present world as well as the daily concerns of our fellow citizens. the two are linked. what does the citizen of europe want? it calls for both more freedom - especially for the youngest - and more security and protection against threats. he asks to be able to work and to enjoy the fruits of his labor. finally, it expects europe to affirm and promote the values of our civilization and culture. so yes, to protecting the environment and fighting climate change at european level. yes, to a common energy policy which guarantees secure supplies at affordable prices, while not excluding any energy source which could guarantee our independence. yes, to a fair agricultural and food policy which offers prospects for the rural world, which also guarantees food security, while participating in technological developments. yes, finally, to a research and development policy which places europe at the forefront of the innovative powers, as we profess in the lisbon objectives. but i shall be emphasizing this morning the need to be close to the citizen and the need to combine this objective with that of dialogue between cultures and religions. dialogue between cultures and religions is the positive side of the fight against racism and intolerance, against exclusion and xenophobia. it is not enough to denounce these evils or to combat them: it is necessary to demonstrate in a positive way the advantages of mutual knowledge, the advantages of social diversity, the nobility of hospitality, the greatness of tolerance, and also the mutual enrichment of the confrontation of cultures. at the same time, the european union must decide on its geographical boundaries, its borders and a common immigration policy. finally, the european union must define its strategy on globalisation. this strategy cannot be based on the law of the strongest, but on a mixture of competitiveness, high employment and social protection. we need a controlled globalisation. i would like to congratulate the german presidency, and especially mrs merkel, on their determination to move forward with resolve on all these issues. these are not just challenges for the next six months, but for the next ten or twenty years. the declaration of 25 march, on the occasion of the union's 50th anniversary, can be an opportunity to propose a revival of political ambition for europe. this ambition, in line with the long-term plan of the founding fathers, requires institutional revival. i know, madam president, how much you care about this. we trust the commission and its president, josé manuel barroso, to take the institutional stakes seriously. the commission is both the guardian of the treaties and the guardian of the general interest of the community. we will continue to stand by him as he vigilantly carries out this dual function. it is by joining forces and sharing our convictions that we can bring the european union out of the quagmire. in conclusion, i could have quoted pierre pflimlin, former president of the european parliament, whose centenary we are celebrating this year, who called for a europe of the values of the spirit, but i will instead appeal to the most europhile of our 20th century writers, stephan zweig, who, in his superb biography of erasmus, gives a key to the builders of europe of yesterday and tomorrow: 'there will always be need for those who show the peoples what brings them together beyond what divides them and who renew in the hearts of men the belief in a higher humanity.' (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, former presidents who remind me of many times we spent together, madam president of the council, mr president of the commission, we do not often have the opportunity to step back and not to rejoice at the opportunity we have today, even briefly, to exchange views on the whole period between now and the next european elections. it is no secret that my group does not share the political views of the majority in this parliament. i shall nevertheless take up some of the ideas that emerged from your speech and make a number of practical proposals. these are limited measures that are not revolutionary at all, and i sincerely believe that one does not have to be sympathetic to the european united left/nordic green left to identify with them. the mere fact that the president of the european parliament takes them into account would send a positive signal to important sections of our public opinion; that would mean i heard you. so, mr president, when you spoke of the aspirations of europeans, you said, and i quote you, 'we must preserve the european social model' and, above all, you added a little later: 'our actions must be convincing'. this is essential to alleviate the deep unease that is fuelled by the idea that the union, instead of protecting citizens from the effects of the current globalisation, too often contributes to the ever-greater precariousness of everyone's existence. to begin to reverse this sense of doom, a meaningful act would be welcome. i propose, mr president, that you call on the council, the commission and parliament to abandon a draft directive which concerns the entire population of the union and which, if nothing is done in the coming months, is likely to produce a new bolkestein effect, since it seems dogmatic, unfounded and devastating for the future of the public service. i am talking about the proposed liberalization of postal services on january 1, 2009, six months before the next election. more generally, you have emphasized another idea which i consider to be very correct and very important. you say that we need a new pact between the citizens and the institutions of the european union, and then you say, in reference to the future european treaty, that we must reform the union in depth. everyone agrees with this requirement. but there are differing views on the substance of the future european basic law. mr barroso has just addressed the netherlands and said: please help us, everyone must move. i propose a method that allows everyone to move, to help revive europe. the process which is now beginning should be an opportunity for a genuine public debate at union level, a frank debate, as close as possible to the citizens, on the meaning of europe 50 years after the treaty of rome, on the purpose of our common policies, on the commitments we are prepared to undertake together in the future. let the president of parliament take up his pilgrim's staff and bring such an initiative to maturity, and he will have succeeded in his mandate from the outset. finally, mr president, you have spoken well about the dialogue between cultures and, in particular, about the middle east, where you said you intended to go as soon as possible. i'm not surprised by your behavior, and i thank you for it. in this spirit, of all the desirable initiatives by the president of parliament, the most emblematic would be, in my view, the one following the almost hopeless mecca agreement, in which the whole of hamas commits itself to respecting international resolutions and the agreements signed by the plo with israel, to solemnly call on the union to lift the blockade imposed on the palestinian government and to give hope for a just peace in a region which has been scarred by occupation and war for several generations. i know, mr president, that none of these initiatives are easy to take. but they are the kind of things that, if you assume them, history will remember.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, former presidents, madam chancellor, mr president of the commission, the president of parliament has just skillfully presented a genuine political programme which one might have expected more from a president of the european council, or even from the commission, than from a president of parliament in his arbitration role. given the group dynamics that often prevail in the institutions, over the will of the people, the speech you have made, mr president, on the will of the people, probably reflects the opinion of the majority of this house. but i would like to express what anglo-saxon jurists call a dissenting opinion. you have spoken of the 'temporary' failure of the draft european constitution in france and the netherlands, as if it were a mere accident in the course of a two-state process. but everyone knows, or should know, that if this draft had been submitted directly to the peoples of the member states and not just to parliamentarians, the rejection of this text would, in all likelihood, have been much wider. so it is necessary to find out once and for all why, when people speak out against the prevailing thought, they are forever relegated to the dishes they did not want to eat. and why, on the other hand, when they have made a statement in line with the mainstream, do they insist that their commitment is final, irrevocable, perpetual, so that they have no right to back down? mr president, in your speech you mentioned several important elements of our european tradition, four of which were particularly important: greek philosophy, roman law, judeo-christian spirituality and the enlightenment. but that is precisely a key part of the problem: how faithful is the european union to these elements of its intellectual, moral and spiritual heritage? is the european union today inspired by christian values, or by a general hedonism which is preparing the destruction of these same values in the name of an ideology of human rights, still imperious, but still of variable geometry? is the construction and functioning of the union governed by the greek philosophy of clarity and simplicity and by the hellenic political tradition of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of the city, or is it the reverse, the creation of a cumbersome, centralised structure that is soon outdated, which claims to govern almost 500 million europeans while in practice ignoring their differences? is european union legislation inspired by the precision and conciseness of roman law, or is it a collection of thousands of obscure, wordy, binding texts down to the last detail? are we really respecting the tradition of public debate that the greeks and romans left us? as for the enlightenment, i do not hide our concern when we heard last month the chancellor, mrs merkel, after quoting voltaire in abundance, say to us here, not literally, of course, but in substance: 'no tolerance for the enemies of tolerance', which brings us back to the words of the french revolutionary saint-just before the revolutionary tribunal which instituted the terror: 'no freedom for the enemies of freedom'. in conclusion, mr president, europe is the only place, unique in the history of mankind, which has invented freedom and equality of nations. it is the space in which the peoples have stood up against attempts at hegemony from wherever they may come, and it is this that explains their current distrust of the union's deviations. we do not need a eurocratic superstate to guarantee the security of our nations and our borders, to undertake specific projects of industrial, cultural or research cooperation, to protect ourselves reasonably from migration flows or imports of cheaply manufactured products that ruin our industries. the instruments of international law are more than sufficient for this task. we must recover the true genius of europe, we must recover the rights of the european people!
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the environment committee of parliament on the excellent work they have done. we must act, because waste management policies do not always promote recycling and composting, and unfortunately landfilling and incineration remain the majority. i am in favour of the five-tier hierarchy of waste management methods (prevent, reuse, recycle, recover, landfill) because i believe that the objective of reducing waste must be a priority and that a waste prevention policy should therefore be given priority. i am for example in favour of the introduction of eco-labelling on products. i am satisfied with the exclusion of excavated land from the list of waste, for the sake of simplification. on the other hand, i think it is necessary to draw a clear distinction between recycling and recovery and to regulate incineration practices in order to create a real energy recovery which should not pose a risk to human health and the environment. i support the proposal to extend the responsibility of waste producers to all, in accordance with the polluter pays principle.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by mrs emine bozkurt on the role of women in turkey in social, economic and political life. in my view, while the legal framework for women's rights appears to be generally satisfactory, its actual implementation still shows shortcomings: violence against women, in particular honour killings and forced marriages, must be systematically condemned. i welcome the report's proposal that the turkish institutions should 'establish alliances with all the civil and social expressions of society to launch campaigns' to raise awareness of violence against women and children. i also welcome the adoption of the recommendation to the turkish political parties to have more female candidates on the electoral rolls as from the next elections in 2007. finally, i welcome the request to the turkish government to make access to education compulsory for girls whose families prevent them from attending school.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pierre moscovici has just written an interesting book: he said the constitutional treaty was dead. it shows that no one can reinstate a contraband mini-treaty when a people has spoken. we cannot act contrary to treaty law. the number is not enough here, only the sovereignty of a state matters. the madrid parody was a dead end and an insult to diplomatic rules. you should know, ladies and gentlemen, that members of the european parliament, like myself in this case, were not allowed access to the debate room, whereas any official could freely enter it. the solution for the union is not to remake madrid, but to revive the spirit of the treaty of rome, that is to say to recover the meaning of free cooperation between sovereign nations, to re-establish community preference and to renounce the imperialist ambition of a supranational state, a state which will always be a chokehold on the peoples and an obstacle to the rights of the people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in setting its economic objectives, the german presidency of the european council is relying on a report which states that unemployment in europe is falling. this is more the result of a decline in the number of active persons linked to the ageing of the population than the result of a prosperous economy. with an annual growth rate of only 2.6%, compared with 3.6% in the united states and 10% in china, brussels europe is lagging behind the world's major economies. on the other hand, in some member states, official employment statistics are distorted. in france, for example, if one adds to the 2 million or more officially unemployed the retired employees, those in early retirement, the unemployed in training, and the subsidized contracts, unemployment affects nearly 4.5 million french people, or 18% of the active population. with growth at a standstill, a population that does not replace its generations, and companies relocating their activities, the european union is unfortunately continuing its economic decline. if the diagnosis is therefore wrong, the remedies prescribed and inspired by the malthusian and anti-social policy practised for the past twenty years are harmful: the destruction of trade borders, the surrender of our industry to unfair competition from asian economies, the multiplication of bureaucratic constraints, the legal arrival of more than a million immigrants from outside the community every year, the dismantling of our public services, the abandonment of our agriculture subject to the forks of the world trade organization, and the overburdening of taxation. to restore prosperity to our economies and economic and social security to our citizens, to which they are entitled, we must build another europe and another business model, based on secure borders, protecting our companies from social dumping, on the application of community preference, on respect for the values which have made our civilization great: homeland, freedoms, work, family and security in all its forms, including economic and social.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to choose 8 march, whether by chance or deliberately, to open the european council is to choose international women's day. so it is good for the german chancellor and i think she will appreciate the value of this day. i am putting the european council back in its historical perspective: 2007-10, which i believe will be decisive years, much like 1954-57, between the failure of the defence community and the revival of the european budget by the treaty of rome, whose 50th anniversary we are celebrating. we have many appointments ahead of us: institutional, budgetary, electoral, with the european elections and perhaps referendums, the review of the lisbon strategy, and even an appointment with agricultural policy. so we must all work to convince and to win over the peoples at the appropriate time. the people will hear about competition, they're not opposed to it. they will hear about the flexibility of the company, they are not opposed to it as long as the worker's safety is guaranteed. that said, i suggest another word: harmonization. it's gone from our language. it's in the treaty of rome. environmental harmonization, we are getting there, we are making progress. tax harmonization, it is a little broken for corporate tax. social harmonization is too weak. in any case, i think that the little music of harmonization should ring again in the ears of our fellow citizens. i would also like, as many do, for the council to urge the commission to table a text, a framework directive on public services. it is somewhat necessary to rebalance the market, although it is true that nobody here is opposed to it. this would only reflect the meaning that jacques delors gave to the construction of europe, or at least one of his formulae: competition that stimulates, cooperation that strengthens, but solidarity that unites.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, the lisbon strategy is europe's response to the challenges of globalisation. the efforts made by the commission and the member states to relaunch and clarify this strategy must now bear fruit in terms of growth and employment. the european council must reaffirm that the solution to our economic difficulties lies largely in better implementation of the lisbon strategy, including productive public spending in the service of investment, research and development, energy and the environment. the combination of economic, social and environmental reforms at national and european level is the only way to achieve our common objectives of improving competitiveness and creating more and better jobs. the european council will also adopt the energy action plan to guarantee security of supply, competitiveness and respect for the environment. i would like to draw your attention to the potential impact of the very ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for 2020 envisaged by the commission, because, while the aim is entirely laudable, it is necessary to ensure that a balance is struck between the ecological principles and the maintenance of the competitiveness of our companies. i support the german presidency and the commission in their call for the 'better lawmaking' initiative. europe has often wanted to regulate too much, especially and sometimes on anything. the union is not meant to be involved in everything. on the other hand, it must do better on policies which require at least a european level of decision-making and which represent genuine european added value: energy, climate, security, immigration, to name but a few. today is the time for the union to focus on the essentials, respecting the principle of subsidiarity and responding to the expectations of our citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. madam commissioner, dear mrs batzeli, ladies and gentlemen, the wine sector is a major economic activity in the european union, particularly in terms of exports. the european union is the world's leading vineyard. the paradox is that world consumption is rising and yet the european sector is in crisis. we have worked with great enthusiasm in this parliament on the lines of reform of the wine cmo. the winegrowers, with their know-how, continue the tradition in a modern viticulture. these men and women are passionate about their work. we must defend them with passion, help them to face the economic realities, show them our support, all of this is our responsibility. but the commission responds coldly to this passion by "massive grubbing-up, liberalisation of planting rights and abolition of distillation mechanisms". i think it is clear from this report, which will be put to the vote on thursday, that parliament is responding with a proposal for reform, albeit a gradual reform. i believe that member states and especially the regions must be given considerable leeway. and no one can deny that in some areas nothing grows but the vine. nor can anyone deny the contribution of the vineyard to the structure of the landscape. through their powers in the field of land use planning, the states and regions therefore have the necessary capacity to evaluate planting or grubbing-up policies, working closely with producers and representatives of the sector. it is true that some of the tools of the current com are now inadequate or misused, but i expect the commission to take the time to analyse with the member states the consequences of the disappearance or replacement of the tools of the current com, in particular the distillation mechanisms. i expect the commission to propose tools for regulating the market and for managing potential crises. the recipe is simple: quality wine and promotion. the world is consuming more and more, and the economic and cultural development of some countries is accompanied by a desire to consume. the competitiveness of the community industry must be increased by measures at all stages of production and marketing. in the case of oenological practices, the new producing countries have more flexible regulations. i hope we will be careful not to let our character wines become globalised wines. it is true that the constraints on european producers must be reduced and that adjustment to demand and improved competitiveness must be made possible. i am in favour of a ban on the making of imported musts and on their mixing with community musts. in conclusion, i would remind you, madam commissioner, that wines have the accent of the terroir, the taste of their soil, the colour of the seasons, the spirit of the winegrowers. they have the flavour of countries, those of the european union. it reminds me of an anonymous quote: "to make great wine, it takes a fool passionate to cultivate the vineyard, a wise man to regulate it, a lucid artist to make wine, a lover to drink it and a poet to sing its praises".
on behalf of the its group. madam president, madam commissioner, since 22 july 1993, the date of the first draft reform of the wine sector, we have been told that we must pull out our vines, and the figures support this. for example, in 1993 we were told that consumption would fall to 115 million hectolitres by the year 2000. the commission was wrong to have set the figure at 127. we were also told that there was overproduction, but where? on the global market with the alcohol in the mouth. the deficit was 9 million hectolitres in 2002 and 11 million in 2003. and we know that the morning of the vine growers comes in china, in particular, where chairman mao said, "we must let the people drink wine". so what is behind this reform on free planting, chaptalisation, distillation, tea leaves, imported grape must and, of course, grubbing up? in reality, with this 400 000 hectare grubbing up, the most violent in the entire history of the world's wine industry, since we have to go back to emperor domitian in 92 to find the same thing, the commission pursues two objectives. first, by 2015, we will have abandoned our export wine production in the southern hemisphere in exchange for its services market. secondly, that the pensioners from northern europe should gradually move to southern europe. europe therefore needs a reserve of land, and this reserve is contained in the 400 000 hectares to be cleared to plant houses, 4 million houses, on 4 billion square metres, with a turnover of one trillion euros. that's where the tragedy is in this land grab. because wine is not just a cmo. wine is more than agriculture and even more than culture, despite the painters, the 275 wine poets, the urbanism of the five thousand wine-growing villages of europe: wine is the interface with the divine. in fact, at the wedding feast in cana, jesus' first miracle was to turn water, not into whisky-coca, or nokia cell phones, but into wine. so to take away that is not to abandon sheep in new zealand or chickens in brazil, it is to take away europe's identity. that is why, commissioner, you must stand by the wine which the argentinian jorge luis borges called the deep patriarchal river that flows through the history of the world.
madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago we were alarmed by the agreement on wine concluded with the united states, on which we had to request an urgent debate and which already contained some of the bad ingredients of the reform you are proposing today: weakening of european wine quality criteria, confusion about geographical indications and designations of origin, acceptance of highly questionable oenological practices, increased market opening in favour of standardised products which are supposed to meet the taste of the global consumer, who is also standardised. it is unquestionable that traders and exporters will find their way, but certainly not the development of productions intimately and culturally linked to their terroir, certainly not the diversity and rich flavours of european wines, certainly not the consumer who will soon have to swallow drinks that will hardly deserve the name of wine, and certainly not the winegrowers who work hard, sometimes in difficult regions and on small surfaces, to maintain a high level of wine quality and pleasure to drink. so yes, let us put an end to the most aberrant schemes which encourage overproduction and have too many harmful effects, but please, madam commissioner, fight with us and put in the means to promote quality wines, to value the variety of tastes and territories, to preserve soils and biodiversity, and finally to make known to the whole planet this wonderful alchemy which wine has been in europe for over two millennia.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have not worked in vain. i would first like to thank mrs batzeli for her report, which makes a profound and very positive amendment to the overly liberal proposals put forward by the commission last summer. we have a strong message to send to the entire wine sector, which is in a serious crisis. we know that the fall in consumption in europe, coupled with increasing imports from third countries, has led to a fall in prices and incomes for winegrowers and that only a policy of voluntary regulation, not full liberalization, will get us out of the crisis. we want to promote quality viticulture, respectful of the character and traditions of our terroirs and of the diversity of farms, especially family farms. the massive and undifferentiated grubbing up of 400 000 hectares conceived as a structural solution must be clearly excluded. planting rights must be maintained, along with increased controls to prevent illegal planting. the allocation of new rights registered in the revised wine register should be given priority to young wine-growing operators. trade organisations play a major role in the competitiveness of the sector and should be strengthened through national operational programmes. finally, the promotion of a reasonable consumption of wine, combined with a dynamic export trade policy, including simplification of labelling, requires the real allocation of substantial budgetary resources.
madam president, commissioner, the european wine sector needs an ambitious reform. as you will have understood, we want it to respect the european wine tradition and the men and women who work in this sector. but i would draw your attention to the opinion of the committee on international trade which has been incorporated into mrs batzeli's report. the reform of the wine cmo must take account of trade issues. europe remains the world's largest exporter of wine and, while it is necessary to strengthen its competitiveness in the face of increasing competition from new world wines, the vitality of this export sector is based above all on quality and authenticity that are recognised worldwide. we therefore need an aggressive trade policy to promote the quality of european wines. it would therefore be absurd and counterproductive, for example, to allow the vinification of imported musts and the blending of wines between european wines and wines from outside. the european parliament's report is therefore strongly opposed to this. in the same vein, there is a need to achieve better protection of pgi and aocs in wto negotiations and bilateral agreements. we want to defend a wine production linked to the terroir, in the face of wines that are very little regulated. i hope, madam commissioner, that the european commission will respect the opinions expressed in mrs batzeli's report, which i welcome and congratulate on this evening.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs batzeli, who, as we have heard, expresses a view widely shared by the various benches in this house. let us say it again: the commission's proposals are not acceptable as they stand. we are far from denying that there is no problem; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in response to this situation, the commission is proposing a massive grubbing-up scheme which is a real social breakdown for our vine growers. we are told that there is overproduction, but we refuse to act on imports: european production is used as the variable for adjusting the market. this is not acceptable. the grapevine harvesting can only be permitted if it is based on a voluntary approach, which implies substantial financial compensation, and if we introduce the idea of a temporary harvesting. my second conviction is that the reduction in the budget for the wine cmo is also unacceptable. the commission is discussing the possibility of transferring part of the budget to rural development. i am not going to question the very principle of a specific wine-producing com, but i cannot see how we can reduce already weak appropriations, especially since we have just welcomed two new producing states. we are therefore opposed, as many of us have said, to any transfer of appropriations from the first to the second pillar of the cap. my third conviction, which will be my conclusion, is that we actually believe that there is a future for european viticulture. we believe that the days of the vineyard are not over. that the future is not in the concentration of farms, as the plan for the massive grubbing up of vineyards suggests. we must build this future by strengthening the competitiveness of our wines, particularly abroad. that is why we believe that the first priority of a reform of the wine-growing cmo should be to strengthen the attractiveness of our wines through a major plan for the promotion and marketing of our wines throughout the world. i was pleased to hear you mention this earlier. we are now waiting for something concrete.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, last november we rejected the proposal for a regulation on voluntary modulation by a very large majority. the european commission has not amended its text, so the conditions for a second rejection of the text are still met. i will not repeat them, but everyone knows them: the cuts made in the second pillar, the non-co-financing, the fact that this co-financing introduces distortions of competition between the states and the imbalance that this creates in the structure of the common agricultural policy, which, i remind you, is the only common european policy and which, as a result, is in danger of being re-nationalised. however, the financing needs of rural development policy are real and i am very much afraid of an increase in the desertification of our rural areas if nothing is done to modernise agricultural structures, to renew generations of farmers, to improve the quality of life and the environment, and to diversify the economy of our countryside. that is why i ask you, commissioner, to propose an increase in the compulsory rate of modulation which is identical in all the member states, instead of optional modulation. i would also like to point out that the compulsory modulation applies for the time being as soon as a holding receives more than eur 5 000 of aid per year, i.e. the vast majority of agricultural holdings. in order to have a real tool for redistributing agricultural aid, other criteria should also be taken into account, such as the size of the holding, its dependence on aid, the labour employed, the gross margin, etc. in addition, a ceiling on direct aid could be considered to ensure a better distribution. unfortunately, even if the european parliament rejects this proposal for the second time by a large majority, which is normally an important piece of legislation, it is only an opinion, and i fully agree with mr goepel. i therefore think it is necessary to keep up the pressure on the commission and the council by maintaining for the time being the budgetary reserve of 20% of the rural development funds for 2007.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to give our opinion on the reallocation of radio frequencies. this is a very important issue and the reasons why the commission wants to make a proposal to optimise or maximise the benefits of this resource are of course linked to the evolution of technology, the existence of the digital dividend and the desire clearly stated in the lisbon objectives to be able to ensure access for all to the new services, whether it be the internet, mobile telephony or many others. we have just spoken in particular of broadband, which could help to reduce the digital divide in the union, especially in rural and sparsely populated areas. we must therefore seek to ensure a rational use of frequencies to guarantee universal coverage in the 27 countries of the union, with a view to sustainable regional development. frequencies are a resource, a public, common, strategic asset for the union, and we must achieve sustainable spectrum efficiency. in the same way that we talk about energy efficiency, i think we can also talk about radio spectrum efficiency. i would like to welcome the efforts of the commission to give a new european dimension to the use of this digital dividend and to avoid the reappearance of the real problem we have experienced and which was perceived as such by companies when umts networks were put up for sale. she's offering to make a deal. we must be able to find ways of ensuring greater flexibility, avoiding speculation and monopolies and making frequencies available to new services and new entrants. i believe this will is right. we must find new opportunities for innovation, but we must be careful in how we establish this new commercialisation, whether it be through licences, auctions, delegations, particularly of public services, or open access, free access, even if only temporarily. these various modalities have yet to be defined. we have had a debate in our committee on the place of broadcasters, and i should like to say here, very strongly, that i have always defended, as far as i am concerned, the particular nature of the information and cultural programmes provided by broadcasters, and in particular by public broadcasters, which do not have the private capital necessary to be able to afford access to the market on the same terms as, say, ordinary companies. so if we have to take this situation into account by being fair and just; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the radio spectrum is not used in a way that would be harmful to the environment.
mr president, we must congratulate mr claudio fava on this report which is a credit to the profession of member of parliament. for four years, cia flying prisons were allowed to stop over in countries that voted yes to the european constitution and the charter of fundamental rights. we are told that the ends justify the means, but here the means, namely the violation of dignity or torture, have led to the end, as we know: the islamists' terrain has been expanded. claudio fava teaches us three lessons. first, the united states has eternal leaders, indians in the cold war and mccarthy; they are the students of carl schmitt and heidegger, we are their unconditional friend or their enemy, as france was three years ago. second lesson: european leaders, on the other hand, are the children of machiavelli and his double language, and of hanna arendt and her banality of evil. third lesson to be learned, and a message of hope: europe will not disappear; it is apparently led by sheep, but they are capable of equalizing the wolves.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr claudio fava on the very thorough work he has been doing for the past year and i would also like to thank mr coelho for his impartial presidency. many member states of the european union have failed in their duty to respect and protect human rights, and we must seize the opportunity that now presents itself to us to finally harmonize our speeches on human rights with the concrete actions we are taking in this field. it is also a question of showing the strength of the european parliament, which must remain impartial and independent, and in this respect the claudio fava report must serve as an example. i would encourage the european parliament to systematically address all cases of violation of fundamental rights that arise. we must be able to express ourselves freely and impartially. this has not been a fruitless effort, since investigations have been carried out in several member states and the public has been made aware of the facts. let us not forget that we are responsible to our constituents. the recent release of abu amar and his testimony about the torture and abuse he suffered shows that mr. fava's work has not been in vain. we must continue this fight to get the truth about all cases. finally, we must send a strong message to all the authorities responsible for the secret services to make them understand that such events cannot happen again without the european parliament reacting.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details, see minutes) before we begin the votes, i will give you some important information concerning them, in particular the vote on the fava report. the fava report, as you know, which we discussed on monday evening, is a report which has many amendments. i am used to presiding over votes, i have never seen such a thick dossier for a single report, but we can perhaps make it shorter. it has nothing to do with the intervention of any foreign power, it is simply the nui that is proposing certain votes in block that will allow us to gain at least half an hour. the problem is that this proposal came very late and your voting lists could not be adapted to this proposal. so if you agree to some votes being taken in bulk, you'll have to follow very closely on your voting lists. the actual order of the list hasn't changed, we'll follow the same order, but we'll go a little bit faster. i would like to know whether the house agrees with this proposal which will save us time. (applause) i would like to thank mr pirilli, i think you are the one who is going to put this proposal forward on behalf of the uen group.
i can confirm that the request of the epp has been forwarded and that we will indeed vote as a group, except for the separate votes which you have requested and which have been taken into account in the announcements i am going to make to you. mr guardans cambó, i give you the floor on procedural matters only.
the point made by our colleague is quite acceptable. that is why the assembly will decide. i shall therefore put to your vote a first option: accept the num proposal, which will allow us to vote as a group while retaining the separate votes requested by certain groups. (parliament agreed to the proposal) i should also like to inform you that we will be interrupted at noon to receive a distinguished guest, the president of the italian republic. this interruption will probably take place, given the thickness of the file, in the middle of the vote on the fava report. i would ask you to excuse the sitting, but we have no other choice.
it is obvious, mr president, that if we do not start with the fava report, we will not finish it today, which means that we would have to interrupt the vote on the fava report to finish it the next day, which would be even more disastrous in my view. you'll understand why i can't grant your request. let's try to do this allegro vivace, but not troppo.
that is why the groups were invited at the appropriate time to submit separate votes, and the ppe group in particular did so. the amendments which were most problematic and on which the groups wished to express their views more precisely will be removed from the blocks and will be tabled to you a little later. if your group has not asked for separate votes on certain blocks, it is because they are not in principle a problem. i don't want to reopen the debate on this. (mr guardans cambó insisted on the wording) everyone has understood your position and i hope i have given you the most neutral technical explanation possible. you do not have the floor, mr guardans, you have had it twice already. (mr guardans cambó is still insisting) if you want to ask for a separate supplementary vote, just say which one and i'll put it in.
the agenda calls for the continuation of voting time.
i also need the rapporteur's clarification on this. in your opinion, mr fava, are amendments nos 234 and 235 obsolete after what we have just voted?
vice-president of the commission. i shall of course report back to the college on the outcome of today's vote.
i'll try to summarize this clearly. the committee on agriculture proposes that instead of referral back to committee, we should proceed directly and exceptionally to vote on the draft legislative resolution by roll-call in accordance with our rules of procedure.
since you have no objection to mrs corbey's proposal, we shall put these two amendments to the vote.
i remind you, colleagues, that you have set the agenda, and i am simply carrying out your orders. - before the vote on paragraph 47
we're done with the votes.
in writing. i supported by a general positive vote the report on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners. since january 2006, much work has been carried out by the parliament's committee of inquiry, which is responsible for investigating allegations in the press on this sensitive subject. i would like to point out that it is important for the legitimacy of the work of the committee to be based on tangible and verifiable evidence, in order to maintain a certain impartiality. meps have a duty of transparency and information towards citizens; the information must therefore be guided by the concern to report as accurately as possible. if the final report does not fully meet this requirement, i have chosen to vote in favour, convinced that, through these committees, parliament is called upon to play a decisive role in contributing to the respect for human rights and the fundamental values to which the union fully subscribes in its treaties. the fight against terrorism must therefore be conducted in accordance with international law and no violation of human rights can be justified.
in writing. i supported the report on the draft council decision granting exceptional macrofinancial assistance to moldova with a positive vote. in fact, despite some economic progress, moldova remains one of the poorest countries in europe. since 1 january this year, moldova, which shares a common border with romania, has become a de facto border of the european union and the council wishes to help it to cope with its commercial and financial difficulties. i would nevertheless like to stress that this solidarity, which amounts to eur 45 million, is exceptional and limited in nature and requires certain conditions. the payment of aid must be conditional on the achievement of objectives such as improving the transparency of public finances or respect for human rights. finally, i believe that, following the enlargements of 2004 and 2007, the spirit of solidarity of the european union must now be felt in the countries of the southern mediterranean. the eu must therefore ensure that its financial instruments remain effective and that its trade with the southern shore increases, through its neighbourhood policy and its euro-mediterranean partnership.
in writing. the cap reform introduced, in addition to decoupling aid from production, a new tool: modulation. in concrete terms, this means the possibility of transferring part of the appropriations, direct aid to farmers, to rural development appropriations. it's called "transferring from the first pillar to the second pillar". this transfer may be voluntary up to 20%. the member states may decide to use this partial menu modulation instead of a menu imposed between 'direct aid' as a main course and 'rural development' as a dessert. in reality, modulation is like stripping paul the farmer to dress peter the landscape designer. it is a budgetary technique which seeks to hide the lack of appropriations by creating the illusion of a choice in the management of the shortage of these appropriations.
in writing. the ideas of the three main groups in this parliament are so similar - on economic, trade, social and employment policy - that they tabled a single resolution on the next european summit. that in itself is a reason for rejection. in this text, which reflects a distressing uniformitarian europeanist thought, we find everything that motivates the growing hostility of europeans to your system: the verse, in words covered, on the unemployed responsible for their unemployment - "the poor wretches" gabin said in "la traversée de paris" - the one on benevolent immigration, at the cost of the looting of the elites of the third world and pressure on wages in europe; the need to reform our social protection systems 'in the light of changing global dynamics', which obviously condemns them to extinction; the couplet on discrimination on the grounds of anything, when the most outrageous discrimination is against europeans in their own countries; the first is on growth, never mind purchasing power and consumption, the explosion in the number of working poor and the responsibilities of the euro; the second is the one of "happy globalization", which is an oxymoron. your eternal solution: always more europe. you certainly deserve your failures!
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by mrs maria da assunção esteves, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the russian federation on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas (com (((2006) 0188 c60169/2006 2006/0062(cns) (a6-0029/2007) and- the report by mrs maria da assunção esteves, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the readmission agreement between the european community and the russian federation (com ((2006) 0191 c0168/2006 2006/0064 (((cns)) (a6-0028/2007).
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am speaking jointly for the commission and the council. the commission and the council take full account of the european parliament's concerns regarding respect for human rights in the russian federation. the commission and the council reaffirm that respect for human rights is a fundamental factor in the implementation of the agreements between the european community and the russian federation on visa facilitation and readmission. they will closely monitor this aspect in the framework of the joint committees established by the readmission agreement and the visa facilitation agreement. in the latter, you will also take into account the principle of reciprocity in the implementation of the agreement, equal treatment in the registration of nationals of the european union and of the russian federation, and the free movement of persons within the territory of the russian federation. respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is the foundation of relations between the european union and russia as a whole, which are based on the partnership and cooperation agreements and common space roadmaps. in addition, in accordance with the roadmap for a common area of freedom, security and justice, the european union and the russian federation have agreed to strengthen their cooperation by respecting the rights of individuals in the eu member states and russia, including immigrants and persons belonging to minorities, and respecting fundamental rights and freedoms as set out in the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. the roadmap also provides for the promotion of cooperation in the protection of children's rights and, in this context, explores the possibility of accession to international conventions. the semiannual eu-russia human rights consultations also provide an opportunity for the eu to discuss more general issues with russia.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, mrs esteves, and the rapporteurs of the committee on foreign affairs, mr pinior and mr vatanen, for their reports on visa facilitation and readmission agreements. they reflect the european parliament’s concerns and the advice to which the commission will pay great attention in monitoring the implementation of the two agreements. i wish to confirm the joint council-commission statement that was just heard by you, that vice-president frattini and i have addressed to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs at the request of its chairman, mr cavada. i would not underestimate the concerns the european union has over the human rights situation in russia. we remain worried about the shortcomings regarding in particular the rule of law and media freedom in russia. i understand and share the concerns raised by the european parliament in this regard. the commission has always looked to the european parliament as an ally in its promotion of the principles of democracy and the universality of human rights in our relations with partner countries such as russia. for their own sake, but also because they are cornerstones of peace and human development, they are indeed agreed common values and the foundations of the long-term strategic partnership which the european union wants to have with russia. since the beginning, the commission has been and will continue to emphasise to the russian authorities that our strategic partnership is based on common values which underpin eu-russia relations as enshrined in the partnership and cooperation agreement and in the four common spaces roadmaps. they explicitly foresee the strengthening of our cooperation through respect of individual rights in the eu member states and russia. the readmission agreement fully respects human rights and fundamental freedoms and is consistent with the eu’s human rights policies. article 18 of the agreement explicitly clarifies that it is without prejudice to the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the community, the member states and the russian federation arising from international law, in particular from the 1951 geneva refugee convention, the 1950 european convention on human rights and the 1984 un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the practical implementation of the readmission agreement will fall under the exclusive competence of the member states and russia’s national authorities. all of those authorities are directly bound by the above-mentioned international instruments and their individual return decisions are subject to judicial review before national courts. as far as asylum seekers are concerned, i would like to clarify that they are not included in the scope of the readmission agreement. they have for the duration of their asylum procedure a temporary right to stay in the territory of member states. the agreement covers only illegal immigrants, that means people who do not or no longer fulfil the conditions in force for entry to, presence in, or residence in the territory. in the case of asylum applications at the border, the principle of non refoulement has in particular to be fully respected by member states in accordance with article 18 of the agreement. honourable members, the extension of our common borders after the eu enlargement has of course broadened the scope of our cooperation with russia. russia is, and should be, a strategic partner and an important neighbour to the european union. now migration policy and movement of people have become strategic priorities for the eu’s external relations in general and with russia in particular. i firmly believe that only by engaging with russia can we achieve real results in those areas of common concern. through visa facilitation, we are decisively contributing to the common objective of building a new europe without dividing lines and facilitating travel among our citizens. we are fostering trust and dialogue. people-to-people contacts are intensifying and our economic and societal interaction is increasing to the benefit of all our citizens. through readmission we are effectively fighting illegal migration, contributing to joint migration management. finally, the first agreement on visa facilitation ever negotiated by the community and the first readmission agreement concluded with a major partner country are tangible signs of our practical cooperation within the aforementioned common space on freedom, security and justice. they are evidence of our resolve to successfully address common challenges with russia. they will remain, i think, as landmark, sectoral agreements within the overall new architecture provided by the strategic agreement on which we hope to launch negotiations with russia soon.
as you had two reports, you were entitled to two five-minute reports, which makes ten, but you did your job very well, very succinctly.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the achievement of an agreement objectively, it cannot be denied that it is a step in the right direction, albeit a very modest one. we must remember that we started from a very modest starting point. one of the three main issues that continue to cause difficulties for tourists in russia is the registration requirement. how can a tourist still be required to register with the police in various places today? in practice, this completely prevents normal slot machine gambling in russia. the russian federation has recently introduced a law to prevent unwanted persons from entering russia. by what criteria? will we be blocking the entry of people who have criticised russia, the kremlin, putin or his munich speech? are those the criteria that make you an unwanted person in russia? there are areas in russia, like chechnya and other areas, that a tourist can't get into. the difficulty in this whole situation is that it speaks to the relationship between the eu and russia. it's about our inability to solve problems on an equal footing. the commissioner spoke very well about common values, but where are those common values? if we have common values, then we can also make equal agreements that serve both sides and our common future. if we accept unilateral agreements like this, we are actually slowing down russia's development towards the rule of law. this agreement still has echoes of the past, and if we are honest about our cooperation and its development, we must immediately begin to plan a new agreement.
on behalf of the pse group. madam commissioner, mr president-in-office, the two international agreements with russia which you are presenting to us today, one on measures to facilitate the issuing of visas and the other on readmission, have, i must say, raised our deepest concern. the european union's cooperation with russia should allow for better promotion of the protection of fundamental rights, including the rights of migrants and asylum seekers. while these agreements have made progress, particularly in terms of the price of visas and the simplification of the procedure, several problems remain. indeed, recent events in russia show that freedom of the press and freedom of expression are not systematically guaranteed. europe must therefore maintain high standards for the protection of human rights. you have addressed some of our concerns in your statement. the commission has committed itself to guaranteeing reciprocity in the implementation of the agreement on visas, equal treatment in registration procedures and free movement within russia. i would, of course, have liked to see more firm commitments, particularly on the protection of migrants and the rights of children. i am particularly concerned about the accelerated procedure provided for in the readmission agreement. the commission will also ensure that this procedure respects the principle of non-refoulement. we also asked for clearer commitments on visas, which would eventually have led to the end of the invitation and registration system and to further simplification for bona fide travellers. finally, i must once again reiterate the dissatisfaction of this house at being consulted on these international agreements long after they have been concluded. the european parliament's prior consultation during the negotiations would, it must be said, allow for greater democratic control.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by udo bullmann, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the situation of the european economy: preparatory report on the broad guidelines of economic policy for 2007 [2006/2272 (ini) ] (a6-0012/2007) and- the report by jan andersson, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states [com (2006) 0815 c6-0036/2007 2006/0271 (cns)). the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work; i believe that this report contains both an analysis and recommendations which my group can fully support. i would simply like to emphasize three aspects. the euro area is improving in terms of growth and competitiveness. but as the report says, and this is a first point, there are very important differences between the member states. i think we should try to learn from it, or at least understand why it is so. things aren't always easy; there are many factors involved. the report mentions in particular the difference between the situation of a number of large member states and that of smaller member states, but in the end it is more complicated than that, since there are also very dramatic differences in performance among the large member states. germany is in the middle, with 2.7% growth last year, which is a very good result compared to previous years. but other large member states, such as italy, but also my country, france, with 2%, are falling below the average growth of the european union, which was not the case until two years ago. this is combined with other factors which are quite worrying, since the differences in external trade are just as dramatic. germany is again breaking records and showing a capacity to conquer international markets, while france, which has been a country with a very high international trade surplus for a very long time, is running quarter after quarter with record trade deficits. it is true that the scandinavian countries, the netherlands and a number of smaller states have achieved good results, both in terms of growth, employment and international trade. there is a first lesson to be drawn from this, which i perhaps conceive in the light of the national situation which is mine. in a country where, for the last five years, we have been pursuing structural reforms, let us say liberal reforms, where we have been told that the way out of the crisis, and the unemployment crisis in particular, is to lower taxes, corporate taxes, income taxes, to put in question a number of labour market protections - we had a "new hire" contract, which weakened protections against dismissals, etc. - we weakened public services, privatised, we have not achieved anything. on the other hand, some countries which maintain compulsory rates of taxation and higher labour costs than france are showing significant results. the second lesson i take from this is that not only has this recipe not been effective, but it is wrong to think that europe will get away with competing from the bottom. europe will not succeed in competing on the basis of low costs, but by investing in human resources, innovation, research, training and universities. the third point, and the report rightly notes it, is that despite this overall improvement in growth and economic performance, poverty remains a problem. even compared to the 1990s, we have again seen an increase in the level of poverty within the european union. there are, after all, 80 million europeans living below the 60% threshold of average income. and in this connection, i think we should also learn from what happened under clinton in the united states, which then experienced a boom with the new economy, which at the same time did not prevent a very high level of poverty from continuing to somehow poison society, because welfare programmes could not be implemented. we too must combine investment with the knowledge economy, the competitive economy and social cohesion. both go hand in hand and support each other.
the president of the council. i do not know at the moment which member states they are. but i can assure you that it is the vast majority. there's no point in cherry-picking now. but there are other proposals, including those from the commission, such as the creation of an integrated control framework. however, the national declaration of reliability is also excluded. there are many other aspects which can contribute to the ultimate proper implementation of budgetary control, including within the framework of one's own responsibilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the other possibilities of simplifying procedures which i mentioned earlier would be an essential aspect.
member of the commission. mr president, we are confronted with a dramatic humanitarian, security and political problem in darfur today. the situation on the ground is deteriorating by the day. the number of civilians affected by the conflict has risen to almost four million since 2003. throughout 2006 we saw an increase in the number of violent deaths in darfur. attacks on humanitarian aid agencies also significantly increased and this has prompted some organisations to evacuate. continued violations of the ceasefire by both the sudanese government and the rebel factions deepen insecurity and instability. most recently, on monday, sudanese military forces bombarded cariari and bahai, two villages in north darfur close to the chad-sudan border. the african union mission to sudan – established in 2004 to help prevent further conflict – continues to face resource constraints. despite its best efforts, it had some difficulty in providing effective protection to civilians or carrying out additional duties associated with the implementation of the darfur peace agreement. politically, the situation is complicated by splits and regrouping among the non-signatory rebel movements as well as the government’s refusal to consider reopening the deadlocked peace agreement. darfur is not a simple issue. the commitment of the european union to alleviating such a dramatic situation has been reiterated on several occasions, most recently at the european council last december, at the council on 22 january and, just two days ago, through the general affairs council conclusions on sudan of 12 february. we must work to ensure the protection of non-combatants as well as of humanitarian aid workers. we must seek the full implementation of the un-eu three phase plan for darfur, this being the most effective means at our disposal to support the african union mission in sudan and to protect civilians. but our overriding objective in darfur must be to achieve a durable peace through a political settlement agreed by all parties voluntarily and then implemented. the strategy of khartoum to negotiate individually with each rebel leader to buy their support will not create a cohesive and lasting peace. the council of the eu, in its latest conclusions on sudan, has emphasised the need for an inclusive political process and confirmed its support for the joint initiative of the african union and un special envoys to start negotiations between the parties as soon as possible. on several occasions and in various fora, the commission has stressed the need for a political solution in darfur based on the existing peace agreement and insisted that there is no military solution to the crisis. in this context, the european commission has strongly backed the african union in the search for a political settlement in darfur. the commission has been providing continued support to the african union in political and financial terms. with cofinancing from belgium, the commission stands behind any and all efforts to revive the peace agreement. the european commission has provided one and a half billion euros specifically for the darfur crisis, covering security, humanitarian needs and peace efforts for darfur. the aim is to create the conditions to bring the non-signatory parties of the darfur peace agreement back to the negotiating table and to start effective implementation of the agreement. pending a lasting settlement, the commission is also active in the political démarche intended to obtain the agreement of the khartoum government to a joint eu-un force capable of providing effective protection of civilians. in the margins of the african union summit on 28 january, commissioner michel met with the sudanese president, mr al-bashir, as well as with the un secretary-general mr ban ki-moon. the commissioner was also in ethiopia and in eritrea where the darfur issue was raised. just yesterday, the darfur issue was discussed in washington in a meeting between commissioner michel and the us secretary of state, condoleezza rice. this parliament is right to debate the darfur peace agreement and the critical situation in darfur. yet we must not take the comprehensive peace agreement for granted. eu heads of mission in khartoum report that this peace agreement, made in 2005 with the south, is in trouble. after 20 years of civil war the comprehensive peace agreement may be the last chance for the khartoum regime to show that the federal power-sharing form of government can work for this vast country. if the comprehensive peace agreement cannot work, then nor can the darfur peace agreement. it is important, i think, that the critical situation in darfur does not divert our attention, or indeed the attention of the sudanese regime, from the very real threat to the whole sub-region if both the comprehensive peace agreement and the darfur peace agreement are not pursued with more vigour. this is a message that the commission will strive to communicate in the weeks ahead.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i speak on behalf of my colleague mr morillon. let me first emphasize the completely surreal nature of our meeting tonight. we are about ten parliamentarians. commissioner, thank you for being here. i know the reasons for the absence of mr louis michel, whom you represent. but there is the great absence of the council and in the meantime, unfortunately, people continue to die in darfur. i would remind you, mr almunia, who are a man of numbers, that 14 or 15 people die every hour in darfur. so maybe it was high time to worry about a situation that no one thinks is simple. but do we have to keep making fools of ourselves? this will be the fifth resolution we have adopted on darfur in many months, and we can see how much they are shaking the heads of state, especially the sudanese heads of state who are here tonight in paris. i think we could really take responsibility for ourselves. let me remind you, commissioner, of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this resolution. paragraph 2, as mr coveney has pointed out, stresses the need for a clear date to be set by the un. but paragraph 3 is a call to the european union to take responsibility. taking responsibility for your life will probably mean something in the long run. otherwise, we can ask ourselves what the european union is for, what the values we want to defend are for, in the face of what is in fact a continuing humanitarian emergency, which no one denies. my colleagues have appointed me as the permanent rapporteur for humanitarian action. but what do i report? the systematic withdrawal of all ngos that are no longer allowed to work, the 14 people who have been killed and the death every day, every day of people who are abandoned and who, in addition to being displaced, have lost all hope. mr commissioner, please act as our interpreter to the commission; we will take care of the council politically, because if we listen to them, we should not be talking about this subject for a month. we must send the message that one day the right, if not the duty, to intervene will prevail when we see men and women being mistreated to this extent.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i too wanted to emphasize the discrepancy between the seriousness of the matter under discussion and this almost empty chamber, not to mention the absence of the council; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the council is not present, i said, but when you read its conclusions of 12 february, that is to say two days ago to be exact, it would not change much anyway. i read and quote from these conclusions: 'the council remains gravely concerned about the security situation in darfur' 'to say the least' 'and condemns continued ceasefire violations by all parties.' this is the kind of particularly forceful phrase that the council is able to produce after months and months of resolutions, decisions, diplomatic meetings, when today the situation is more disastrous than ever. we therefore clearly believe that we must change the level and indeed increase the pressure on this unacceptable situation. what about the sanctions that have been decided against the sudanese leaders, and also against all these war criminals? what is the european union doing about these sanctions? it seems to me that the european union has a number of possibilities to block financial assets, to prohibit the free movement of all these people on our territory. there are possibilities of pressure. what are we doing about un resolution 1706, which is supported by the european union? what initiatives has the european commission and the council taken to put pressure on all those responsible for this situation? what credibility do we have today in multiplying texts which merely reiterate, at least on the part of the council, or even the commission, the extreme concern about this situation? very recently, chinese president hu jintao visited several african countries, particularly sudan. what is the union's position on this reality, on the new role emerging for the chinese leadership? and what about the importance of access to raw materials, and oil in particular? so when we see the inertia, the paralysis, of the european institutions on this issue, what conclusions should we draw? does this mean that in order to give priority to access to raw materials or to oil, which is indeed shrinking, in order to give priority to the large markets represented by countries like china, we are putting to the background the values of human rights and the duty that we actually have to protect civilian populations? is that what this means? i think it would be absolutely dramatic if the european union were to come to this. these questions arise every day, and we are constantly witnessing the impotence and helplessness of the people in the face of this tragic situation. it is therefore high time that a solemn meeting of the council, the commission and parliament on this matter should be held in the very near future, in brussels or strasbourg, so that the necessary decisions can finally be taken.
in writing. since the outbreak of hostilities in february 2003, darfur, one of the poorest regions in sudan, has been the scene of an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. four years of conflict and suffering for the people of darfur, four resolutions of our assembly to express our indignation, but the situation remains extremely worrying. today, in a joint resolution on darfur, our assembly reiterates its concerns and urges the united nations, the member states, the council and the commission to assume their responsibilities and to set a clear date for the deployment of a un-mandated peacekeeping force to secure humanitarian corridors without delay and thus alleviate the immense distress facing the people of darfur. i welcome this new initiative, but in the face of the urgency of the situation, europe can no longer simply repeat the demands it has made in the past. it is our responsibility and our credibility to find an adequate solution to the suffering of millions of human victims whom europe can no longer simply watch, and to adopt a resolution that finally lives up to our indignation.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, budgetary aid has long had a very bad reputation and it is the failure of the ultra-liberal approach to structural adjustment plans that has led to budgetary aid now occupying a prominent place in the union's cooperation policy and being enshrined, as you said earlier, in a european consensus. it is now seen as a key tool in the fight against poverty and in achieving the millennium development goals, because it allows for more direct access to the most vulnerable populations and concentrates resources on the essential sectors of education and basic health. it is also making a decisive contribution to the rehabilitation of states, which is very important, because it is the state's failure and its inability to carry out its basic public service missions that are hindering development today, particularly in sub-saharan africa. it promotes ownership, i.e. the ability of the recipient country to choose its own development process, and it is also a valuable instrument for political dialogue between donors and recipients and perhaps even support for parliaments in their role of controlling public finances. but budget support cannot achieve its objectives unless the necessary conditions are met, in particular good governance and the fight against corruption, democracy, respect for fundamental freedoms, and a system of public financial management controlled by a democratically elected parliament. all this was very clearly stated in my colleague mr gahler's report. but while budget support really needs clarity, transparency and democracy, sometimes it is the lack of transparency that prevails, as the court of auditors' report has shown, because in several countries - kenya, malawi - the commission has used budget support without the conditions, the right preconditions, having been met. it is true that we are now waiting for very precise answers from the commission, that we are waiting for it to shed light on these countries that have been mentioned and to introduce controls. i would rather advocate, as in the report, external control, either through the intervention of the court of auditors or through the creation of a control body in cooperation with the other donors. i believe that parliament will support this new instrument that you have put in place, with careful monitoring.
mr president, i welcome the fact that our committee has taken the initiative to speak on the effectiveness of budget support. the report, which is rather critical, contains many reservations. i agree with each of them and would like to illustrate them a little more. the country strategy papers we are currently examining show that the commission's budget support is often a black box, impossible to evaluate. for example, in cambodia and laos, the commission proposes to allocate between 40% and 60% of the total budget to the national programme to combat poverty, without giving any indication of the sectors which will actually be financed. more worryingly, when the commission reveals the sectors which were financed in the past in its programmes, it is found that they did not contribute directly to the fight against poverty. under the guise of financing national development programmes, the commission is in fact financing measures to improve the business climate, investment and trade. therefore, it is not enough to strengthen sectorisation and conditionality of budget support; the commission must also have a real intention to pursue the objectives of poverty reduction and the achievement of the millennium development goals. that is why, to avoid such a drift - and i propose this whenever i can because it is a deep conviction of mine - care must be taken to decentralize a significant percentage of budgetary support to the benefit of ngos and local authorities. this would prevent central governments from managing and monopolizing all european budgetary support. decentralising aid would bring people closer to european funding and thus ensure that our financial support benefits the people on the ground.
in writing. the achievement of the millennium development goals by 2015 requires a strong commitment by the international community to poverty reduction. the effectiveness of its aid instruments is a key prerequisite for sustainable aid that meets the needs of developing countries. at a time when the principle of aid effectiveness is a priority for the european union, budget support is proving to be appropriate, responding to the principle of appropriation and the need for better coordination between donors. if this instrument seems to meet the requirements of aid effectiveness, it must be used under certain conditions. finally, budget support allows recipient governments to take a more assertive role in the coordination of development aid: this active approach creates the spirit of partnership needed to address the problems of appropriation and sustainability of aid. reducing poverty is a non-negotiable objective. the involvement of all actors is therefore necessary for its achievement. developing countries and the european union must work to ensure that the promises of the millennium summit in 2000 are fulfilled. the european union, on the other hand, must live up to the expectations it has created.
the rapporteur. mr president, illegal fishing is a phenomenon which is now growing considerably and is seriously damaging the activities of both european fisheries, local fishing communities and fisheries in developing countries, particularly those with which the european community has fisheries agreements. it is also, unfortunately, a very lucrative business. i would like to give the example of bluefin tuna, particularly in the mediterranean, which are sold at very high prices. this is a vicious circle, leading to a gradual but accelerated degradation of fisheries resources. legal fisheries, those that respect the regulations, are, on the other hand, very seriously penalized by these illegal activities, which have a rather broad definition. we are talking about illegal, unregulated, unreported fishing. this is true of many activities: illegal fishing, the use of unauthorised fishing gear, the taking of unauthorised species, fishing without a licence or the policy of transhipping cargoes from one vessel to another. the range of illegal activities is extremely wide. what is the purpose of this own-initiative report? in 2002, fao launched an international action plan against illegal fishing, which was then followed by an eu action plan, adopted by the council in 2002, which has unfortunately been implemented by member states in varying degrees. at the moment, the european commission is evaluating the action plans of the member states to combat illegal fishing in the run-up to the fao fisheries committee meeting in rome in the first week of march, which will be the occasion for relaunching the international action plan against illegal fishing. the european union has a huge responsibility in this area. why would you do that? firstly, because the european union is the third largest fishing power after china and peru. it represents one of the largest fleets in the world. it also makes extensive use of flags of convenience, which pose enormous problems not only for fisheries but also for maritime transport. finally, the eu is also one of the largest fish markets in the world. so there are many responsibilities. the commission replies that this is all complex, that there are many players involved, that nothing can be done alone, that it is expensive, that it is not possible to ask member states to respect certain rules and not others, etc. the pretexts and excuses are indeed numerous for not doing much, and unfortunately there have not been enough initiatives to combat effectively this illegal fishing activity, which, once again, has been growing in extreme severity in recent years. the responsibilities are those of the so-called port state, the flag state and the state where the fishery products are marketed. there are many levels: the level of regional fisheries organisations, the level of the member states, the european level; it is at all these levels that action is needed, in a transversal way, involving dg/fisheries as well as dg/environment, dg/development and dg/commerce. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what are the main points of my report, which was unanimously approved by the committee on fisheries, which shows that this is a matter of common concern to all our member states? there is the traceability of fishery products, the establishment of blacklists, i.e. lists of vessels that are not authorized to fish or that have already been sanctioned for illegal fishing activities. it is regrettable that there is no coordination and consultation between the various sources of information on these vessels, whether they are authorized to fish or not. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal fishing, including the introduction of a new system of fishing quotas for the baltic sea. in conclusion, we absolutely need a more integrated european policy, both in terms of control and surveillance, but also in terms of sanctions. it is in this overall perspective that the report outlines a number of ways and proposes a number of measures which we are discussing here, in view of the fao meeting in march next year, in which we must absolutely show ourselves to be much more willing, much more dynamic.
member of the commission. the commission welcomes the fruitful dialogue that has developed over the past few years between the eib and parliament, which is reflected in the report by mr montoro that we are debating today, and to which the policy of transparency pursued by the bank and its president, mr maystadt, has made a positive contribution. with the enlargement of the european union to ten countries in 2004 and completed on 1 january this year with the accession of bulgaria and romania, with the economies becoming more interdependent and in a context of budgetary fragility in 2005 in many member states, the european investment bank was, in the year under review, and remains today, a key instrument in meeting the ever-increasing funding needs of european union policies. this is evidenced by the new instruments developed in the union's budgetary framework for 2007-13 and the extension of the bank's external mandate approved by the ecofin council a few months ago. these include the risk sharing finance facility, which will boost private sector investment in research and development through greater accessibility to bank financing, the guarantee facility for the trans-european transport networks, and the contributions to cohesion policy through the jaspers programmes, in partnership with the european bank for reconstruction and development, and jessica, in partnership with the council of europe development bank. the european investment fund, part of the eib group, will also strengthen its contribution to the union's objectives through its involvement in the new european competitiveness and innovation programme and through the extension of the possibilities for smes to access financing under the jeremie programme, in conjunction with the structural funds. in the external field, the main feature of the new external mandate of the european investment bank is its closer alignment with the priorities of the union's external action. the bank's instruments for action in the mediterranean, through femip and in neighbouring countries, through the new investment fund and the tripartite agreement between the commission, the eib and the ebrd, have been strengthened. the eib will also have greater resources to intervene in areas such as latin america and africa. all these developments are reflected in mr montoro's report and are, from the commission's point of view, extremely important and positive. all of these are proof of the central role played by the european investment bank in achieving the union's objectives and therefore the constructive spirit of dialogue prevailing between parliament and the bank is very good news. i can only add for my part that i have been able to develop, and i hope to continue to develop, an excellent partnership as commissioner responsible for relations with the european investment bank, the bank chaired by mr maystadt, and i am sure that this partnership between parliament and the bank, between the commission and the bank, will help us to achieve the common objectives we have, the commission and parliament, for the future of the european union.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is a great pleasure for us to be able to examine this annual report again, which was unanimously approved by our committee with particular ease this year. all the big groups voted for it; the rapporteur, mr montoro, has been very open to all suggestions, including ours. this unanimity in our committee reflects the deep satisfaction of the european parliament with the attitude which the eib has been able to maintain towards us since i had the honour of being the first rapporteur in this parliament for the eib's activities in 1999. we can say that we have been able to establish permanent interaction between ourselves and to ensure that the wishes of elected representatives, often also the requests of associations and non-governmental organisations, and the policy of the eib, which has gradually aligned itself with the gothenburg-lisbon strategy, are reciprocally matched. this year, beyond the fact that the objectives set are very largely followed by the eib, i would simply like to draw attention to the difficulties which we ourselves, by our own requests, are bringing to the bank. we have just been talking about the baltic oil pipeline; it is true that when we demand the greatest possible security in terms of sustainable development, we have to make choices between this and that objective. there is another, more complex problem: we are asking the bank to lend more to smes, so we are asking it to find operational arrangements to enable small businesses and intermediary banks to implement the objectives we assign to the bank.
president of the european investment bank. mr president, first of all i should like to thank your rapporteur, mr montoro romero, for his very thorough analysis of the activities of the european investment bank. mr montoro romero has personally invested himself, he has been there, he has asked many questions, and with the help of his staff he has produced a report which delves into the heart of the european investment bank's strategic priorities. these strategic priorities are clearly stated in the motion for a resolution and i can tell you that the bank fully accepts the recommendations contained in this motion. as regards the priorities, which are dealt with in paragraphs 2 to 10 of the motion for a resolution, we shall carry out our activities in accordance with the guidelines proposed, including in the energy field. it has rightly attracted the attention of several speakers and i can tell you that in the business plan for the next three years we have decided to lend at least eur 4 billion a year to energy projects, including at least eur 800 million for renewable energy. we have also set ourselves a rule, which may not be easy to follow, but it is the rule we have set ourselves: we want at least half of the new electricity generating capacity we are called upon to finance to be linked to renewable energy sources. another area of our energy activities will of course be the improvement of energy efficiency. i have noted mr turmes' very specific proposals. i can tell him that we are already financing programmes in several member states to renovate social housing in order to improve its energy efficiency, and we are of course prepared to step up our action in this area, which, as you said, is crucial for our future. the recommendations in the first part of the motion for a resolution are still being referred to, and mr krats drew attention to the representation of the european investment bank in the nordic countries. i can confirm to him that the eib has taken the decision in principle to open a representative office in the nordic countries. there is a consultation process between the member states concerned and as soon as they reach agreement, we will open this office. since we are dealing with the issue of the eib's external offices, i noted a question from mr ólajos on the new eib offices in the regions which are more specifically concerned by the jaspers programme. we have decided to open three new offices: the first, in warsaw, is already open; the other two, bucharest and vienna, will be in the very next few months. mr ólajos asked why vienna had been chosen. he himself mentioned other possibilities: budapest, prague, bratislava. the reason why vienna was chosen was that the member states concerned could not reach agreement and vienna therefore appeared to be the compromise choice. to return now, in a more systematic way, to the various forms of cooperation with the commission which commissioner almunia mentioned, i would like to say that there are in fact three important new initiatives: the jeremie programme, which is a very original programme to transform structural funds into renewable financial instruments; the jaspers programme, which i have already referred to, is a form of technical assistance to help identify and prepare major projects which may be financed by the structural funds. and finally, the jessica programme in the field of urban renewal. on the other hand, we have also, together with the commission, developed a new guarantee fund for the financing of transeuropean networks and a research facility. mr katzimarkakis referred to it and this facility is one of the new financial instruments that mrs starkevičiūtė wanted. this is just one example of innovation in this area. this should enable us, i repeat, to leverage with the commission to increase substantially the funding for research and innovation. finally, several of you have mentioned the role that the european investment fund can play. it will be given a new impetus by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, thanks to a capital increase currently being prepared, and also thanks, through the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, to an additional €1 billion envelope to enable the deployment of innovative financial products, particularly for the benefit of small enterprises in the start-up phase. that is the point i wanted to make, mr president. i can at any rate confirm that, having read the motion for a resolution very carefully, we can commit ourselves to implementing its recommendations. in addition, if parliament so wishes, we would be prepared to report within a year on the state of progress of the implementation of these recommendations.
in writing. first of all, i welcome the very good report by my spanish colleague cristobal montoro romero on the annual report of the european investment bank (eib). i support his proposals to increase the role of our public bank in the service of a better functioning of the internal market and a greater external influence of the union. i regret that the financial aspects are so little mentioned, particularly the reasons why the member states do not release their shares of the capital of €155 billion. this situation leads to a clear lack of equity and therefore of means of action. the bank's excellent aaa rating is due solely to the fact that its shareholders are the 27 member states of the european union and that it benefits from the community guarantee from the union budget on a very significant number of its financial commitments. on this last point, i cannot explain why this community guarantee is still not paid for in the interest of transparency, which is an objective of the bank which is welcomed in the parliamentary report. it will be interesting to examine the voluntary application of the solvency ratio (ball ii) to the eib, the methodology applied and the aggregates constituting this ratio.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i think we have a strong agreement on the structural nature of the energy increase. i welcome the contribution of the itre committee, which has made everything clear and has supported the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we have a disagreement, including in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the speculative nature of this structural fund. in this respect, i fully support the intervention of mrs budreikaitė and would like her to urge her group to withdraw the amendment challenging the speculative component of energy price volatility. we'll have to take measures against volatility; we must, at the very least, and we can, eliminate the speculative component of energy price movements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the oil price crisis. a new trend is taking over the planet: the african palm tree, the cereal crops for biofuel or biodiesel, which will lead to a link between the price of food and the price of energy. this risk is unacceptable; we can't run from him. for years we have been asking ourselves how we can prevent workers from being hit by the second wave of oil's impact on the cost of living. if, by some extraordinary misfortune, the policy of developing biofuels were to compete with the policy of producing food, then, yes, for the moment, we would have that link and that would be the worst of disasters.
in writing. the increase in energy prices, despite a favourable euro/dollar parity, remains a factor of instability in the european economy. it also reflects the over-reliance of our economy on oil: oil prices have soared, while those for other energy sources have remained stable or have risen less. the situation must therefore be clarified and a political response should be found around the following points. the emergence of european energy leaders, because only they are able to negotiate on an equal footing with our main suppliers for the benefit of the member states. they must be able to continue to enter into long-term contracts to secure their supplies and to pay back heavy investments. finally, we must avoid weakening them by advocating at all costs the separation of assets as a factor of market competitiveness, which is illusory. promoting a true energy mix based on renewable energy, nuclear energy, energy efficiency and increasing research budgets for future energies such as iter. while preparing for the post-oil era, these policies would enable the union to remain competitive by ensuring an average cheap energy supply for its economy.
before we start this debate, i would like to say this: i know that there are no rules defining the order in which members speak. i would like to draw the attention of the house to a somewhat cockeyed situation in which the rapporteur has been given all his speaking time to reply, in conclusion, to all the speakers who have spoken. our well-established practice is that speakers speaking on behalf of the groups do so in an order proportionate to the political weight of their group, and not at the end of the debate, when it is a legislative text. the answer lies with the commission, which is very well represented here, and i am surprised at the practice followed today: if it is an innovation, we will have to explain it.
madam president, commissioner, the commission's initiative was welcome, but the way in which it set its objectives needed to be corrected. i believe that the work we have undertaken in the economic and monetary affairs committee, which is finally reflected, after many discussions, in the agreement which is being proposed to us today, was important in two respects, firstly, in the definition of shareholder. this definition, as proposed by the commission, was too broad. it led us to embark on a definition of the law of securities which was very close to the practice on the other side of the atlantic, which did not correspond to our traditional conception of the shareholder. i think that a narrower, more restricted definition, as we are proposing today, is a good formula. the second point on which we have been led to amend the commission's proposal is the problem of the process of recompiling voting mandates. i believe that, once again, thanks to the work undertaken in particular in the committee on economic and monetary affairs with our rapporteur, whom i thank, we have been able to stress the existence of mandatory instructions in the event of a mandate: an obligation to comply with these instructions and an obligation to retain them. however, i believe that beyond this question of cross-border shareholder rights, the commission would do better to look also at what is important in terms of employee ownership or shareholder stability in a number of industrial situations where, from the point of view of the europe site, we would prefer a coherent strategy. let me take this opportunity, commissioner, to ask you again about the commission's position on the hague convention. that is the question that we are discussing here. this parliament has asked you to withdraw the signature affixed by the commission at the bottom of this convention; the council's discussions are clearly not progressing. i would ask you, commissioner, to question mr mccreevy again and tell him that this house wants the commission to revise its position on this point and withdraw the signature of the european union at the bottom of this convention.
in writing. i would like to take advantage of the vote on this report on the right of shareholders to vote, which unfortunately takes place without a prior debate, to draw the attention of this house to the eurotunnel scandal, a real scam sponsored by the french governments, socialist and liberal, for years. 800,000 small shareholders, still representing some 90% of the company's capital, believed the promises of the tunnel's designers, the government, bankers and industrialists, and invested some 4.5 billion euros in the company. they are now ruined, and will be further spoiled by a "rescue" plan that sells the company to large non-european shareholders, repaying creditors who have already collected 8.5 billion euros in interest. a plan that was drawn up without consulting them and imposed on them by the paris commercial court. their only choice will be whether or not to respond to a public exchange offer which will permanently marginalise them in the capital, and thus in the decisions of the company, at the very moment when it becomes extremely profitable. this case is a disgrace. the silence of the french authorities is scandalous. all this is likely to deter citizens from investing in the economy, leaving it to the appetites of the large stateless financial groups.
in writing. this resolution endorses the commission's proposal for a council decision which praises the lisbon strategy and affirms that unemployment has fallen in europe. even if it is re-designed, the lisbon strategy will remain a symbol of demagogy and inefficiency, as the member states subject to the brussels guidelines have difficulty in adhering to the europeanist letter and fail in terms of growth, employment and the modernisation of their social security. this fall in unemployment, according to the commission's positive assessment, is a decoy which masks the reality of the figures. we are in the middle of the "potemkin village" because, in france alone, by a clever mechanism, many poor and precarious people are excluded from the statistics, not to mention the unemployed in training and the number of active persons who have been put on early retirement. finally, the 'procedure amendment' proposed by the committee on employment and social affairs, which wisely asks that the european parliament be given the time necessary to fulfil its role of consultation on these social issues, demonstrates the impotence of our institution in the face of european absolutism.
in writing. i would like to congratulate katerina batzeli for her work on this issue, which has enormous economic, social, environmental, territorial and cultural implications. i think that his own-initiative report is balanced and ambitious and will enable parliament to influence the broad lines of the reform of the wine cmo which the commission is preparing. the situation of the european wine sector is difficult today and competition for new world wines is fierce, but it must also be stressed that the eu remains the world's leading producer, consumer and exporter of wine. i am opposed to the commission's initial proposals, which would lead to a concentration of production in the hands of a few large winegrowing enterprises, to a standardization of the wines produced and to a crisis in many european regions. the final uprooting would lead to the abandonment of production in the most remote and difficult areas where no other production could take over, which would accentuate desertification. the european wine tradition, the quality and authenticity of european wines and their connection with the terroir must be respected. it is not by aligning ourselves with the corrective oenological practices of other continents that we will become more competitive but rather by encouraging commercial investment and by promoting our products better.
in writing. this report clearly opposed the european commission's proposals on the reform of the wine cmo, making it more respectful of the european wine tradition. as a socialist mep, i believe that this report has struck a balance between the necessary reform of the sector and the interests of european wine growers. first of all, i welcome the introduction of structural measures with the priority of rebalancing the market. the market is now being cleaned up by phasing out distillation schemes and by focusing on quality, geographical and environmental grubbing-up. secondly, i welcome the implementation of regulatory measures on oenological practices, labelling, to meet the need for transparency for consumers, and the promotion of european wine to win new shares of the world market. finally, in order to defend terroir wine production against wines whose production is not very regulated, i am satisfied with the ban on the importation of must.
in writing. i put the following questions to the commission. if we assume that there has been an overproduction of wine since the 1970s, after 20 years of underproduction, which is not safe on a global scale, why then import 12 million hectolitres of wine each year from australia, new zealand, south africa, argentina, etc.? if my languedoc-roussillon has to extract, under the pretext of overproduction, why import 12 million hectolitres from non-community countries, or almost the equivalent of the 15 million hectolitres produced in languedoc-roussillon, precisely? if there is overproduction, why does brussels want to allow the import of must from third countries to make 'ikea wines' in kits? if there is overproduction, why would you want to allow the us practice of adding 7% water to wine? why would you want to take from us when chile, australia and the vineyards of the 33rd parallel are planting? "when china gets drunk", who's gonna give her wine, if we pull? does the commission not intend to plant 4 million villas on the 400 000 hectares cleared, or 4 billion m2, representing a real estate turnover of 100 billion euros?
author. mr president, i thank the commissioner and the representative of the council for being here, because the events in guinea require the union to be involved: the situation is serious and the country is adrift. guinea, which has been kept in a state of voluntary underdevelopment by a dictatorial power for too long, is sinking into a dramatic impasse, due to a lack of openness and democracy. while the country is full of natural and mineral resources, the wealth, hoarded and mismanaged by the president and his equally guilty entourage, does not benefit a people who can no longer cope with poverty, misery and social injustice. president conté, who has been in power since 1984, is sick and clinging to life as well as power. he's clinging to life, no one can complain. but if he is clinging to power by re-establishing the state of emergency, we do not understand and cannot accept that. after decades of unshared power, how can we not condemn such an attitude when wisdom, or a minimum of compassion for his people, should have led the president to calmly prepare his succession and the transition to a truly democratic regime. instead, a state of siege has been declared, freedom of assembly and movement is restricted, and the military is committing atrocities against peaceful demonstrators, not to mention the unacceptable deaths. we can only condemn this brutality, this lack of respect for the most basic rights of the guineans and the shameful behaviour of a ruler at the end of his reign, but - alas! - not at the end of his annoyance. we must demand that a commission of inquiry be set up to investigate the events in guinea, to know the true balance of repression, to know at what level of responsibility the decisions were taken and by whom. will the european union also demand that a political dialogue be held as provided for in article 96 of the cotonou agreement? the greatest vigilance must be exercised because, if the situation continues to deteriorate, not only the guineans will suffer but also the whole of the african region, as a result of the worsening of the internal conflict and its contagion to neighbouring countries. the past is unfortunately too rich in examples of this kind.
author. mr president, since 17 january in guinea, an old, senile dictator has been massacring his people with impunity to protect his regime, his corrupt friends and his declining power. guinea is in the throes of disintegration. despite its status as a leading exporter of bauxite, gold, diamonds and iron, its people are among the poorest in the world. corruption burns its wealth and bad governance does the rest. the repression falls on the people who no longer accept it. president conté's only response to the january strikes was to fire on the crowd, to imprison the trade unionists, and then, after pretending to negotiate on january 27, to renege on his commitment to appoint a consensus prime minister and to introduce a state of emergency. today, there are over 100 dead and the slaughter continues. europe cannot remain silent or inactive. it cannot wait for guinea to turn into a huge conflagration with unpredictable regional implications. europe has a responsibility. we call on the commission to implement the provisions of article 96 of the cotonou agreement in cases of violation of human rights and democratic principles. we must stand with the people of guinea today and demand that the authorities immediately stop the massacres, release those arrested during the protests, restore public freedoms, lift the state of siege, open negotiations with the trade unions and civil society, and appoint, in consultation with the opposition parties, a prime minister and a consensus government. finally, i believe that the european union should call for elections to be held under international control, with the sending of european union and united nations missions. this is what is being done today in mauritania, with our colleague, marie-anne isler béguin, whom i welcome here, and this is what has been done in the democratic republic of congo, with results that have been extremely effective and important. finally, we must indeed support the proposal for an independent commission of inquiry to be set up by the united nations to investigate the violence of the past few months. twenty-three years of dictatorship is enough. the european people must stand by the people of guinea in their struggle for freedom and dignity.
mr president, we have agreed to withdraw our amendment no 1. this is to preserve the consensus and unanimity between the groups, which i believe will give strength to this resolution, which i welcome. we have tabled an oral amendment, by common agreement with the various groups, which will be placed at the end of recital d, and which i shall read in english, because that is the language in which this oral amendment was negotiated. he will state that this is the intervention of mercenaries currently used by the authorities from liberia and sierra leone, but of which there is still no official absolute evidence, although all observers on the ground have begun to note it. to be rigorous and at the same time to evoke it, we say the following: whereas there are allegations of the presence of mercenaries and former guerrilla fighters. but i think that our colleague mr matsakis wanted to make an oral amendment to the oral amendment to make it even more precise and i should like to say at the outset that i support the formula he is now going to propose to us so that we can all vote unanimously on the same text.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like first of all to thank our colleague, mr joel hasse ferreira, for the work he has done. dealing with social services of general interest, the ssig, is not easy, but he was able to listen throughout our working meetings. the important point of our colleague's report is the launching of a consultation of the relevant actors, in order to take better account of the specificities of the gss in the application of community law. social services are characterised in particular by the fact that they are personalised, that they implement fundamental social rights and that they contribute to social cohesion by protecting the most vulnerable. as such, they are an integral part of the european social model, as they are, in their present form, a european specificity and contribute to the european growth strategy. they are a dynamic sector of activity and job creator, while distinguishing themselves from other services of general economic interest. their operation is based on the principle of solidarity and proximity to the users. the problem with the vast majority of gis is that they are directly within the scope of the community treaties. in other words, they are subject to the rules of the internal market and competition. the question of the application of these rules therefore arose in the light of the need to maintain public intervention in service provision structures. this objective of public regulation meets legitimate objectives of accessibility and continuity of quality of services in the living areas, as well as protection of users and vulnerable persons who benefit from them. our social model, which we want to promote as an alternative to ultra-liberalism, cannot be a victim of our own community rules.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr hasse ferreira on the quality of his report and the crucial points it contains. i would also like to recall the european citizens' mobilization a year ago when the services directive was voted. this mobilization has made it possible to change the text and to change the position of our institutions in their desire to liberalize all services, regardless of the missions and needs they represent. we must today echo those citizens, the values they hold dear and which we share and which our rapporteur gives substance to. the missions assumed by the ssigs serve human rights, personal dignity, the general interest and social cohesion and are therefore in line with the charter of fundamental rights. to refuse to recognize this, to continue to confuse the notions of economic service and market service, as the commission does, is to renounce the social specificity of europe and what it represents for millions of its citizens. specific legislation is needed to guarantee the exercise and the right to these services.
mr president, as everyone has said, the report by our colleague mr ferreira brings us once again to the heart of this european social model, which is why we are not the united states. and behind this relationship, of course, there are children, there are the elderly, there are the sick, the excluded, the handicapped, and finally, in the end, if we are not careful, there is euthanasia with the netherlands, belgium, and soon france. we are therefore in the sphere of what we french have been calling "public services" for over a century, in thousands of books, courses and university theses. that is why the french people, on 29 may 2005, rejected the constitution of the private services. we, with the beautiful word "public service", say that in the society of women and men, there are common parts of the national co-ownership, and that it is in the common parts, such as the hospital, the school, the health, that services are provided to the public. and this terminology is superior to that of service of general interest, which creates ambiguity and boundary problems between the private and the general interest, as well as between the commercial market, with the competition of major interests, and the public goods, what st. thomas aquinas already called the commons. and it is precisely because of this problem of frontiers that we legislate: what are these services, where do they come from, what budget to allocate to them, what are the competences of the union on the one hand and of subsidiarity on the other, what are the geographical boundaries between mrs thatcher's europe and the europe of social policy, what are the boundaries in terms of housing, employment, childcare, hospital care, between the rich who can go to the private sector and the poor who cannot? a president of the united states had a sign on his desk that said, "here stops the money, here stops the money". that's the definition of public service: "here stops the market".
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we have been saying for some time now, each in turn, that we do not want the measures that will be taken to result in so many additional constraints and regulations. we want the commitment of business leaders, we want them to show a willingness to act, we want global application, we want smes to get involved and, as the rapporteur has said, we want something concrete beyond declarations. as a businessman myself for over thirty years, well, i do wish things could happen. in this context, i have a proposal to make to you, commissioners. one system is already being used by hundreds of thousands of companies worldwide. it organises their corporate social responsibility through iso 9001, iso 14001, iso 18001 standards, which ensure a better business relationship with customers, full respect for the environment and full respect for hygiene, health and safety rules. i therefore suggest that these three management standards be used to ensure that corporate social responsibility is effectively implemented throughout europe.
mr president, i thank mrs lévail and mr mavrommatis for their excellent proposals. this report is timely because intellectual and artistic property is now being challenged in the european union. the commission has proposed for some months now, on the legitimate grounds of the technological revolution which is profoundly altering access to artistic creations and cultural goods, that we reduce the remuneration of authors, composers, performers and all rightholders in general. it fully endorses the common position of industry and consumers, who believe that online broadcasting can be free. i denounce this deadlock, this illusion of cyber-freedom. if creators and performers are no longer paid by copyright and derivative rights, there will be no more creation, no more new music, no more new movies. what will we put on the network then? we were able to stop the draft commission recommendation which dealt with private copying compensation, but it is still on the table. we have transposed the 2001 directive in each of our countries and guaranteed the situation of the right holders. the commissioner for competition has decided to end the territoriality of national collective management organisations. the recommendation on the cross-border collective management of online music rights is of the same dangerous design. it has already had a negative effect, since the german and british companies have created a single joint venture to which a very important publisher has entrusted the exclusivity of its international catalogue. mrs lévai is therefore right to challenge the commission's option, which is based moreover on insufficient consultation. however, we think that its proposal, which guarantees local directories, is a little too favourable to broadcasters and therefore involves the risk of dumping, to the detriment of the right holders. however, as things stand, i hope that this report will be adopted so that the commission will know that the european parliament does not want european law to escape the legislator in very sensitive areas and wants all points of view to be taken into account without any prior consideration. this is also cultural diversity.
, in writing. in order to foster the growth of online music services in europe, we agree with the commission that the development of these services requires changes to the collective management and licensing systems for rights at community level. these improvements have become necessary with the emergence of new services such as internet radio, streaming and paid download services. the absence of a copyright licence in the eu has been one of the obstacles to the development of the full potential of new internet-based music services. however, the european institutions must exercise caution when legislating on collective management systems, which are of the highest complexity. in particular, the greatest possible vigilance should be exercised against the drift of a system where the freedom for rightholders to freely choose a management company within the eu would lead to a situation of concentration of rights and would undermine cultural diversity. in this respect, we support most of the rapporteur's comments and the idea that a rights manager should be empowered to provide commercial users with a pan-european, multi-directory licence for online uses of music directories, throughout the eu.
member of the commission. mr president, i am not sure whether i can say that we have come a long way since we first discussed this issue, but i can certainly say that we are on the right track. you will remember that our first discussion on this issue was even before the final outcome of the services directive. parliament requested that a proposal on healthcare and health services should be brought forward and i promised that, as soon as the services directive was sorted out, i would do so. that is what i did last september in bringing forward this proposal. many issues have been described already and i will try not to repeat them. however, we tried to maintain, firstly, the special character of health, healthcare and health services in the european union and to meet the challenge not only of achieving the social objectives, but also of benefiting from the internal market. it is true that the court set out the parameters and the rights in its judgment, but i believe that those rights should be seen not as a problem, but as an opportunity and i tend to agree with that part of the motion for a resolution. we have the realities before us, as described by the european court of justice. the point now is how to make them work for the benefit of patients, the member states, national health systems and providers. we can do this not only for patient mobility, but also for all other aspects of cross-border healthcare. i agree that the ultimate target must be that a european citizen should be able to receive the best healthcare where he or she lives. we should meet our aim of ensuring equality of health in the european union. however, we know that this is a long-term objective and also that, under certain circumstances, it may not be possible, feasible or even desirable, depending on the financial, as well as – most importantly – the scientific aspects. sometimes, we will still need to make use of the cross-border possibilities of healthcare. as i have said, we launched the initiative in september 2006. the idea was to have a broad consultation, which ended on 31 january 2007. in the communication we described and analysed all the problems and issues, which are complicated. we have to follow a step-by-step approach. we will need a package to sort out and deal with all the aspects of cross-border healthcare, but that does not mean that we have to wait until they are all resolved before we present a proposal: we can do that in phases. we are now in the process of analysing the contributions. we have had more than 270 from the member states, from regional and local authorities, and from european national and regional organisations, representing patients, healthcare providers, health professionals, social security institutions, health insurance, universities, and hospitals, and even from individual citizens. although i do not want to prejudice the results of the in-depth analysis, it must be said that the first assessment confirms the need for community action to address the range of issues set out in the consultation paper, for example, legal certainty and support for cooperation between health systems. in addition, even though there are many different views on the details of specific aspects, the overall picture is clear: there seems to be potential added value for patients, professionals and health systems overall from some form of community action on health services. the commission is in the process of analysing a summary of the report on all the contributions already published on our website. a summary report of the contributions will be drafted to provide an idea of the views and ideas sent in and should be available this spring. however, the views and the input of the european parliament are extremely important to us and will be a determining factor. we will ensure that any future proposals on health services under this initiative are consistent with ongoing work on services of general interest and, of course, on the ongoing modernisation of the regulations on the coordination of social security systems. there has to be coherence and coordination among all these initiatives. on the basis of the consultation and its outcome, the commission plans to bring forward practical proposals later in 2007. our aim is to find a solution which provides real added value without creating more red tape and which respects the principle of subsidiarity.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, we all remember the debates we had in our parliament, when we discussed the services directive, to exclude health services. we felt that health care was not a service like any other and that it was absolutely essential to speak of it in a different way and above all not to think of health care services as merely an internal market. the european union, through its policies, encourages the mobility of people and this necessarily has consequences for health care. this has implications for healthcare professionals, who have legal security requirements, and for patients, who are eager to receive quality care. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the healthcare system is not affected by the disease. i think it is important to say that patient mobility should in no way lead to dumping of health systems or to a deterioration in the safety of health care. this is absolutely fundamental. the mobility of patients and healthcare professionals should also not create two categories of patients: those who could access other types of healthcare across borders and those who could not. it would therefore be interesting to further develop harmonised health indicators at european level. the same applies to the carrying out of more comprehensive studies to better understand local needs and to better target audiences likely to seek treatment in another member state, in order to provide the most appropriate legislative solution. this requires a mechanism for data collection and exchange of information between national authorities. in conclusion, we should be very vigilant about the current drift towards self-diagnosis, self-medication via the internet which knows no borders. it is becoming urgent to take care of patient information and to have a genuine european label in order to ensure that cyberpatients have viable security and information. commissioner, you should know that you will have our full support and confidence in the proposal you will make to us in the near future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, health services, excluded from the services directive, are an essential pillar of the european social model. they contribute to social, territorial and economic cohesion, have a general interest mission and are part of the lisbon strategy. the commission's consultation cannot be limited to the free movement of health services, nor can it be limited to the simple establishment of an internal market for these services, which would lead to a two-tier system from which only the wealthiest and best informed patients would benefit. it should be an opportunity to clearly define the role and added value of the union, to ensure a high level of health protection while respecting national specificities and the competences of the member states. patient and professional mobility must be ensured in accordance with the following fundamental values and principles: universality, solidarity, quality, safety and sustainability. the adoption of a european legislative framework, including a directive on health services, is of the utmost importance in order to strengthen the legal protection of patients, health professionals and health insurance systems and thus restore confidence to all european citizens in all member states.
mr president, thank you for allowing this debate on the oral question 'one action, one vote' to take place. on 26 september 2006, a joint press release from institutional shareholder services (iss) and the european corporate governance institute (ecgi) announced that they had won the tender for the "one share, one vote" study. this is a point on which our parliament, in the previous parliament, had a long debate, particularly in a report on the question of takeovers. at the end of this long, reasoned and transparent debate, it was decided that, under the principle of subsidiarity, member states would be given a certain degree of freedom to define the rules governing the 'one action, one vote' strategies. the importance of management and other stakeholders as stakeholders in corporate governance, whether employees, creditors, customers or suppliers, was also strongly emphasised. however, as early as october 2005, commissioner mccreevy confirmed his determination to challenge the balance reached during the debate on the takeover bid directive, even before the evaluation of the functioning of that directive had been carried out and, moreover, even before that directive had been fully transposed into the internal law of the member states. at the same time, however, we are finding day by day, when it comes to the question of the status of the shareholders within the company and to see which shareholder strategy would be most favourable to an industrial strategy, to the promotion of the assets of the europe site, that it would sometimes be useful to open a debate on the question of retaining part of the shareholding. finally, the commission, as currently chaired by josé manuel barroso, is aware of the importance attached to impact studies, particularly in defining the right strategy to follow. at the time, when this debate was launched, i had the following words: "tell me who you will propose to carry out the impact study and i will tell you what their conclusions will be". it seems to me that this may well be the case here, since those who won the tender to write the study on the principle of 'one action, one vote' are well known for having repeatedly spoken in favour of the same principle. we are therefore obliged to ask a few questions and that is the subject of the debate we are about to have. why spend €450,000 on a study whose results are already known? what is the point of giving lobbies the means to finance their arguments based on the results of a study supported by the european commission? i have serious doubts that the contractors selected to carry out the study meet the universal criteria of independence and objectivity required. it is also important to stress in this respect that, at the same time, in the united states, the activities of the iss are the subject of increased attention by the financial market supervisory authority, the sec, and the new york stock exchange, which suspects a high risk of conflicts of interest. we should, like secsi and the new york stock exchange, be vigilant about the disproportionate accumulation of information about the influence of certain key players in the chain of intermediaries and advisory boards involved in the exercise of shareholder voting rights within companies, and not spontaneously give more weight to these same players. we will recall that when this parliament had the opportunity last july to express its views on recent developments and prospects in company law, it asked for an objective analysis of the empirical and theoretical evidence concerning the impact of the different types of ownership in the member states on economic efficiency, the control of companies by their owners and the possibility of cross-border operations. but at the time we also called for a sound analysis of company law in the light of the wider economic and legal context of the member states and the different models of corporate governance. i do not think that the commission's commitment to a study proposal from these two institutes guarantees us the conditions for a debate that is worthy of the challenge of 'one action, one vote'. i hope, mr kyprianou, that you will be able to echo with the commissioner responsible, mr mccreevy, the concerns of this parliament and that when the conclusions of the study are on the table, those concerns will be clearly present in the minds of all so that we can have a responsible and effective debate on this issue.
mr president, we have listened carefully to the commissioner's reply. that said, the important message to be conveyed to commissioner mccreevy is this. we cannot, of course, prejudge the commissioner's analysis of the results of the study, but our concern is with the study itself, even before the results are known, given the questions which have been formulated by the authors of the study. i think that's the message we need to get to commissioner mccreevy.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the commission for this timely document, which comes at the beginning of our budgetary procedure. it is in line with our priorities, which are the lisbon strategy, the fight against climate change and its consequences, judicial cooperation, etc., but it forgets the importance of social and social cohesion in the future of the union. your priorities are needed to enable the union to meet the challenges of globalisation. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. more specifically, for competitiveness, growth and employment, if the margin is left unchanged at €70 million , if new priorities are affirmed around frontex, eurojust, and if three new transport agencies are created, some policies may suffer: i am thinking of the seventh rdp which may have difficulty getting started; i am thinking of the transeuropean transport network, whose financing is a basic necessity. i am thinking of all these social policies which are not yet sufficiently developed; i am thinking of the cip, which is an essential instrument of the lisbon strategy. we must not reduce the commitment of these policies, which have already been mismanaged. it is about european growth, but also about our objectives in terms of competitiveness, employment and solidarity. the margin of 32 million is very small for the freedom, security and justice policies. the increase in policy funding from frontex and eurojust will necessarily reduce the resources originally allocated to other essential programmes, such as the integration of third country nationals, a truly ambitious policy for refugees, the defence of fundamental rights. the european commission implies that these programmes have not yet reached their cruise speed. but why has it not been accelerated? on agricultural matters, i join my colleagues in the committee on agriculture and rural development in expressing serious doubts about the proposal for a single common agricultural policy covering all agricultural areas. it could lead to a lack of consideration for the specific features of certain agricultural products. the extent of the health check is not yet known or detailed in the commission's proposals, so i ask for clarification on this point. the recent statements by the commissioner responsible for agriculture contradict what you have written. as for the union's actions, we want all the priorities set out to be respected. we cannot accept that our priorities in health, education and promotion are neglected for energy. finally, i am surprised at the brevity of the references to the review exercise planned from 2008, which allows me to address the commission directly: would the revision of the financial perspective be taboo? i have already expressed my curiosity about the estimated additional cost of the better regulation initiative. could you give us the estimates we've been waiting for? finally, i would like to see a focus on communication this year. it is mentioned in this text, but the commission's action in this area should be reoriented. the democratic europe is being trampled underfoot, the citizens are turning away from it and our texts are becoming ever more ambitious. the realization is far from our dreams.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i think that this debate has illustrated excellently the role of a directly-elected european parliament. parliamentarians should criticise the commission, ask for more detailed proposals, point to what is missing or ask about the synergies between different policy proposals. you have also taken the opportunity to congratulate the commission where appropriate and to call for the introduction of an ambitious climate policy or energy policy, for example, hopefully helping us and the european institutions to work together in implementing these policies. listening to the debate, it seems that some of you want the commission to do more, while others want it perhaps to do a little less. the commission will always work with the aim of making things better – better quality legislation, better coordination between the institutions and better implementation. this must be the overall goal. i would like to start by commenting on the procedure and the dialogue that we have started between parliament and the commission on the annual policy strategy. i think that it is very important that we improve the quality of this regular dialogue. i think we have already realised that the way to improve it, to make it more effective, is to make it more political. we hope that parliament can plan in such a way as to ensure that the political groups are involved more consistently, and maybe at an earlier stage in the procedure, because this also allows us to identify in advance some of the questions mentioned here, such as what is missing entirely from our proposals or what you think is wrong with their overall structure. i think that the political groups should discuss the annual policy strategy in exactly the same way as the different committees do. i hope that the groups will feel the same commitment to this regular dialogue. the points of view expressed in the summary report and which will be endorsed by the conference of presidents in september have to reflect the position of both the committees and the political groups. i think that this will help us a lot. we have to realise that we are at an early stage and that, when we come to the legislative and work programme, we will be able to see more of the details and a clearer outline of the specific characteristics of each and every proposal. i would also like to comment on the issue of migration, because we in the barroso commission firmly believe that properly managed labour migration can make a very positive contribution to our economies and to our societies. as regards asylum, a question several of you also raised, we shall make proposals to approximate the criteria on the basis of which member states can examine applications for asylum, but this will be done within the limits of the current treaty and with full respect for the subsidiarity principle. in the area of visas, which was also mentioned, we shall launch the visa information system, whereby member states, while retaining responsibility for issuing visas, can exchange information and pertinent data. this is an important step in the right direction and in coordinating between member states what has to be done. i should also like to comment on simplification and better regulation. let me start by saying that i have often heard the criticism that the commission is legislating too little or that it is not ambitious enough in legislating. we have compiled and checked all the statistics and, if you look at the amount of legislation adopted by the commission, it has remained remarkably stable. if we look at the number of regulations, directives, decisions and recommendations adopted over the past 10 years, it has only once topped 550 and has only once dropped below 430. the average has been some 489 proposals a year, and last year, at 474, we were very close to that average. so, whatever may be said, those are the facts. nevertheless, with the careful consultation and impact assessments we are now carrying out on every proposal included in the work programme, i think that we are making particular efforts to ensure that our proposals are well prepared and of high quality. it is therefore important to bear these figures and statistics in mind. we take the whole issue of simplification seriously and, as you know, we have set out a very ambitious simplification programme of 100 proposals, covering about 220 legislative instruments to be repealed, codified, recast or reviewed over the next three years. on average, there have been about 40 or 43 proposals to simplify legislation or identify legislation which is outdated. we will continue along the same path and at the same pace in order to constantly review legislation. in some cases, it means that we can introduce new legislation and, at the same time, abandon or scrap directives, as we did with reach, where the 40 existing directives were replaced by a single one. we also have to be careful to ensure that our legislation is up to date and modern and that we get rid of legislation that is outdated. therefore, we will continue along the same path and will inform and involve the european parliament so that we can work hand-in-hand to ensure that the overall political objectives of the lisbon strategy are implemented – the four overall priorities that we set out in our annual policy strategy. some members raised the issue of the link between our debate on the annual policy strategy and the budgetary process. i have noted parliament’s desire to improve this link, and it is important that we continue our dialogue on how to do so. we see the budget and the policy as complementary and the purpose of the annual policy strategy is precisely to set the political framework in which the annual budget is to be established. but the institutional framework is such that there is seldom a direct link between the policy initiatives undertaken in a given year and related expenditure in the same year. there is a kind of mismatch between those processes. as you know, the 2008 budget will finance actions deriving from legislative proposals presented in previous years. these were proposals that the co-legislators approved in 2007 or earlier. that means that the legislative proposals put forward in 2008 will have almost no budgetary implications for 2008, but will come on stream at the earliest in 2009. also, many initiatives from the commission have little or no costs for the eu budget at all. the commission strongly believes that the new framework agreement put in place in 2005 actually provides a solid basis for relations. it has already improved the flow of information and enhanced the coordination of planning and programming. now, let me say something more about the political issues raised here. some of you referred to the question of fundamental rights. i am surprised at the criticism of the commission’s actions on fundamental rights. i do not think that we should doubt president barroso’s commitment, given both his personal history and the challenges that he has faced to assert his rights and to realise his ambitions. as you know, we have just set up the european agency for fundamental rights and we are in the european year of equal opportunities. i have already mentioned planned action to reinforce the protection of children and to fight discrimination outside the workplace. i could give a much longer list of the things that we are doing. right now we are fighting, together with the member states, to keep the charter of fundamental rights in the new treaty. i think this is also a very basic provision and making sure that we can defend it will be an important part of the work ahead. i will pass on to president barroso and the commission the idea of holding a chat forum on fundamental rights. my experience is that we are never afraid of entering into debate. i think that if we can engage in different ways, we will most certainly do so. i would have liked mr whittaker to stay, because he actually questioned the whole climate change issue. maybe he has gone back to where he came from, to the kindergarten school of economics at which he said he studied. if he had looked at reality instead, he would have realised that we have already become poorer because of climate change. climate change is already costing today’s society and this is a way to improve our competitiveness, to be in the lead, to say that we can show the rest of the world how we combine the best of environmental technology and the best of our knowledge society in europe with being ambitious in aiming to use a sustainable source of energy for the future. by so doing, we can lead the way and be an example to the rest of the world. we have already shown that this is possible. that is the path we should also follow in the future. let me thank all of you who have given practical examples of what needs to be implemented, because, before we know it, we will also see environmental refugees as a result of climate change and these problems. of course, other countries have already experienced that, but, unless we take action, we too will be affected, in ways we can scarcely imagine at present. so, finally, on communication, let me say that the barroso commission is the first to have started sending proposals directly to the national parliaments. furthermore, we now send the same documents that we send to the european parliament and to the council directly to the national parliaments. the dialogue that we have engaged in – including more than 350 visits by commissioners to national parliaments, engaging with their different committees, responding to questions, being heard by the national parliaments – is, i think, absolutely crucial in making sure that the european agenda is also anchored in national parties, in the democratic traditions of each and every member state. from a communication point of view, this is very important and we have also now set out communication priorities, including better consultation, better listening and explaining, and being present locally in member states. without the engagement of member states and politicians at all levels, it will be very difficult, as has already been pointed out. we also need political leaders in all the member states to be able to defend what they have been doing at european level and to say why they have come to certain decisions. we have to engage at all levels and this is of course the intention of our communication policy as well. we want the european union to deliver and we want results that respond to the needs and expectations of citizens all over europe. this means better regulation. not more or less regulation, but better regulation. it means simplification, more focused action; it means clearer communication, informing citizens and listening more attentively to them; and it also means strengthening the european union’s institutions by completing the treaty revision. we need stronger institutions and closer dialogue to address the challenges and the opportunities ahead of us and we will definitely play our role in these matters, making sure we can come to an institutional settlement. in response to the question about renting premises, let me say that we are working together with parliament, renting a house in london together. this is exactly how i think we should operate in future, working hand-in-hand to project a single image of the european union. thank you very much for this debate. i will of course ensure that the whole commission is made familiar with your ideas and your positions. (applause)
mr swoboda, thank you for that remark. the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the air services agreement between the european union and the united states of america.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, good work! we've been talking for years, negotiating for years. your task was difficult, but you were able to be persuasive and effective. i would like to welcome the agreement reached because it is a good agreement for european interests. the liberalization of transatlantic air traffic will indeed boost the growth of our airlines as they face today the rising price of kerosene, increasingly stringent safety constraints and a future contribution to the fight against global warming. by allowing them to fly to the united states from any european city and not just from their home country, you are creating more business for our airlines and therefore more jobs for our citizens. more routes, but also more freedom in terms of frequencies and flight times, also means more choice for the consumer: european and american users will therefore be the second biggest beneficiaries of this agreement. thirdly, the possibility now offered to european companies of acquiring more than 50% of the capital of american companies. it is regrettable that our american friends are restricting the free functioning of the market by refusing to grant european companies more than 25% of the voting rights, but let us not be too cautious, because the best is often the enemy of the good. in addition, you said, commissioner, that the agreement provided in return for the union to limit american participation in our own companies. i would like to conclude by urging the european transport ministers, as did georg jarzembowski, to give the commission their full support in the coming days, because the interests of one of our largest industries are at stake and must be defended. in the face of the united states, such a result could not have been achieved without the pooling of our resources. we can do little alone, but together, commissioner, everything is possible.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was not accepted)
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was accepted)
voting time is over.
in writing. i see three fundamental contradictions in this report on corporate social responsibility. the first is to claim that this responsibility is voluntary, but at the same time to call for the development of frameworks, standards, definitions, controls and incentives so varied and so constraining that the voluntary nature of this approach is called into question. the second is to claim to encourage corporate social responsibility when all the policies of the european union, and in particular competition policy, encourage companies to relocate, to seek the so-called tax, social, environmental and labour cost minimum, including within the eu. the third is to impose the practice of social responsibility on european companies, without really calling into question the global ultra-trading system and by continuing to open our markets to imports from countries which practice dumping in all its forms, forced labour, child labour or political prisoners. there's a certain hypocrisy to that. even if you defend yourself, you are holding corporations accountable and making them suffer the consequences of your policies, your failures, your impotence and your resignations.
in writing. corporate social responsibility is a catch-all concept which, despite the imagination of the europeans, is not original. this uncomplicated gadget appeared in the united states in the 1950's. in france, the concept of "citizen enterprise" appeared in particular with the sudreau report in 1975. and in 1982 social objectives will be imposed on public sector enterprises to impress the people and the cadres of victorious socialism. twenty-five years later, csr simply wants to humanize and regulate globalism. these pious wishes in times of unemployment and social insecurity amid international instability give csr the image of a vast smokehouse. clearly we must stop wasting our time and money on considerations that seek only to pass on silly and nice messages while we are lagging behind the world. let's be responsible for our own first. let us respect ourselves by applying in europe a community preference and protection of persons, products and undertakings. for example, we should increase customs duties on imports of products from third countries which have not been manufactured in accordance with minimum european social standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of the sartori report on the roadmap for equality between women and men 2006-2010. while gender equality is a claimed value of the european union, there is still a long way to go, for example in the area of equal pay. in this respect, i support the rapporteur's proposals to call for the application of the principle of equal pay so that the 15% pay gap between men and women for the same work is no longer the rule. i welcome the implementation of concrete strategies to promote female entrepreneurship. i also welcome the proposal in the report that the commission should speed up the creation of policies to reconcile family and working life, in particular by actively encouraging fathers to use the possibilities of working time arrangements and to take part in household and family tasks. i also welcome the measures taken to protect women and children from all forms of violence, including slavery, honour killings, human trafficking and polygamy. finally, i welcome the request to the commission to adopt concrete initiatives for the emancipation and integration of immigrant women.
in writing. five days after international women's day, the european parliament is proposing a roadmap for equality between women and men. the calendar was a coincidence? women are still honoured, if not in fact, at least in the texts. the report before us offers a near-exhaustive list of measures to be taken to ensure equality between women and men. although many proposals have been put forward, particularly those concerning measures to ensure a better reconciliation between family and working life obligations, it must unfortunately be noted that many worrying or unnecessary points appear in this report. for example, this is the umpteenth attempt to introduce a quota system for the recruitment and participation of women in all sectors of economic and political activity. we know that this measure can only be counterproductive to the image and the respect of women. but it is also the useless proposal to create a 'madame lisbon' to ensure the proper implementation of the lisbon strategy: a kind of 'european superwoman'. such proposals only discredit the initiatives taken in favour of women.
in writing. while the establishment of a competitive situation between collective management societies may be beneficial for rightholders and for the services of exploitation of musical works, it is imperative that it be controlled. the fact that rightholders are free to choose the operator of their choice throughout the european union, irrespective of their country of origin, may have different effects. in particular, it encouraged the concentration of rights in the hands of the largest collective management companies. it may also have adverse consequences for the most modest rightholders, as rights managers will seek to attract the most profitable rightholders or to undermine fair treatment for all rightholders and thus undermine cultural diversity. thus, while the recommendation is supposed to promote fair competition, it may actually produce the opposite effect.
the explanations of vote are closed.
you're not all going to do the same thing one after the other. you will inform the relevant department of the meeting of your position.
the matter may be raised at the bureau or with the quaestors. the fact remains that the rollcall votes are indicated on the voting lists which everyone must have at his disposal and consult before coming here.
it was your own group, mr buzek, that asked for it.
mr president, commissioner, i thank you for your comments and replies. i would like to ask you what you mean by better consumer redress procedures, since you tell us that you are not considering a class action. the fact is that consumer rights are regularly and massively violated, whether in the area of mobile telephony, by excessive prices, or by unnecessary bank charges, or by failures of internet access providers, and that very often the individual damages are small, but if they are added together, they represent considerable collective damages, involving extremely large sums of money. in the face of this, individual remedies are ineffective and only class actions can appear as a satisfactory solution, since they not only provide consumers with a means of redress and a single process for redress, but also and above all make it possible to make companies retreat, as is the case, without there being any american-style deviations, especially in portugal. so could you please clarify what you call effective remedies?
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you all for your cooperation and also to congratulate the officials of the parliament's committee on agriculture and the european commission who have given me the necessary technical support. this is a sensitive issue on which the member states and the european commission have been seeking agreement since the early 1990s, as the commissioner has just reminded us. the crux of the problem is that when veal is sold, there is generally no reference to the type of feed the animals received or their age at the time of slaughter, whereas farming practices vary widely from one member state to another. the translation of the texts has led to very different products being offered to traders and consumers, but sold under the same name: veal. as the european commission points out, such a practice is likely to distort trade and encourage the establishment of conditions of unfair competition. the studies show that the term 'beef' is a sales denomination which a number of operators use to benefit from significantly higher market prices, when in fact they market young bovine meat with very different organoleptic qualities. it was at the request of several member states and the european beef sector, which wanted clarification, that the commission drew up its initial proposal, which i think is quite appropriate. the commission proposes to establish precise sales denominations according to the age of slaughter, a rather significant criterion which is easier to control than feeding. the commission proposes to create two categories and to use a letter to identify them: 'x' for animals slaughtered between zero and eight months, and 'y' for animals slaughtered between nine and twelve months, letters which the european parliament's agriculture committee has preferred to replace with 'v' and 'z' in order to avoid gender-related confusion. for the first category, the sales denomination shall always include the terminology 'veal'; for the second, we will use another terminology: "jeune bovin" in french, "vitellone" in italian, etc. i refer you to annex ii (b) to the rules of procedure. there is an exception for the domestic marketing of four countries, denmark, greece, spain and the netherlands, where, in order to take account of cultural usage and traditions, the term 'wheat' may always be referred to in the second category. the terms 'beef', 'veal' or any other sales denomination defined in the proposal will therefore no longer be allowed to be used for the labelling of meat from animals over 12 months of age. of course, traders who wish to supplement the sales descriptions set out in this proposal with other information provided on an optional basis, such as the feed, will be able to do so. so, coming from limousin, i could tell you about the "white vault". i have tried to propose amendments to the original proposal of the european commission to make this legislation more coherent and binding and i thank my colleagues for their support. i have in particular called for the introduction of a system of penalties for non-compliance with the rules and proposed amendments to include meat preparations for human consumption, processed, processed or cooked products within the scope of the regulation. i also insisted that the sales denomination be used at every stage of production and marketing. however, i consider that a number of points are unacceptable and risk upsetting the balance of the proposal for a regulation. these are amendments nos 8 and 12 adopted by the committee on agriculture. amendment no 8 suggests that names and pgi registered after the publication of this regulation could derogate from it, which is not consistent with the legislation as a whole. the already registered protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications are not affected, but it is important that new aocs and pgi are subject to the provisions of this regulation, otherwise they could be circumvented. amendment no 12 calls into question the proposal for a regulation which is based on the age criterion. however, as shown in annex ii, the united kingdom chose to give the name 'veal' to the first category and the name 'beef' to the second category. the specific features of this country have therefore been taken into account. i also do not support the two new amendments 26 and 27 tabled for the plenary. these two amendments introduce a new derogation from article 3 of the regulation which is unacceptable in my view, by allowing a given member state not to apply the regulation if its production of animals of the first category, from zero to eight months, does not exceed 3% of the total production of animals aged from zero to twelve months. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support me and reject these four amendments which would reduce the scope of the regulation which is supposed to apply throughout the european union and the scope of the harmonization of the first category, 'zero to eight months', which has been very difficult to achieve.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to read this report by mrs bourzai. it is clear, well written, well documented and accompanied by a good proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will have to discuss wine again, commissioner, with the countries that have a register and others that do not, with the composition of wines that may vary from country to country even though the name is the same. there is also the vat area, with the intra-community fraud that the single market allows, with the fiscal dumping and our baltic friends who take advantage of their flat tax, their 'flat tax' to give themselves an advantage. there is, of course, the bull market, where if there is no fraud, there is unfair competition. forgive me, mr president, but it is said that our spanish or danish friends have calves older than eight, nine or even ten months, grandfather calves of some kind, whom they still call calves. of course, with a price difference of 2 to 3 euros at the end of the slaughterhouse, depending on whether it is a real calf or an extremely old grandfather calf, it is certain that the added value can be extremely profitable, even if the 800 000 tonnes of calves are not all involved - thank god! - since 80% of production and 70% of consumption are in countries which have harmonized the definition of calf or calf. the distortion of competition is therefore still limited but it exists. madam commissioner, in almost twenty years of parliament, for the first time i congratulate the commission, which proves that one should never despair of anything. the diet we're on is excellent. firstly, to define the age of the calf in terms of a limit set at plus or minus 8 months is very clear, as it is very clear to provide for two letters, x and y. there was ambiguity about this, whether hormonal or sexual or otherwise, and the rapporteur was right to propose the letter v as veal and the letter z as, we do not know, but it is better. the introduction of penalties is excellent and the extension of the legislation to include preserved veal is very good. excluding pgi and aoc, everyone can only be happy about that. after all, mr president, commissioner, all this may well be a good example: if we could define right-wing or left-wing politicians by their age, by their diet, by whether they are monogastric or whether they are mammals, voters would find it easier to know whether they are in the presence of a left-wing or a right-wing calf. perhaps our rapporteur is suggesting a way forward.
in writing. for ten years now, various initiatives have been taken to harmonize the rules for the marketing of meat from bovine animals aged less than 12 months, without success. until now, france and other member states which gave priority to the quality of meat by fixing the age of slaughter of cattle at less than 8 months and feeding them milk were harmed by the lack of harmonisation in the designation of veal meat. the consumer could be misled, since two meats of different age, taste and quality could bear the same name and the same labelling. i am therefore pleased that we have finally found a compromise, and a compromise which has not been achieved at the expense of tradition or quality. the report takes account of internal market considerations but respects traditions, preserving pgi and aocs. i am glad to see that europe is not only concerned about the safety standards that beef meets, these difficulties have been overcome. it was a matter of promoting quality and consumer information, and that is the spirit of the report we are voting on today.
mr president, we are in the middle of the erika trial. the case of erika is emblematic of these preventable disasters, but they happen anyway, because the gains of a handful of individuals must necessarily come first. this is the result of a liberal profit-making mentality that goes to the extreme, whereby to make a few extra dollars, anything is permissible, including the most basic safety rules, to the point of disaster. the same logic is at work in the infamous case of irish ferries, which will soon be irish in name only: in the name of profit, the entire staff of a company that is functioning properly is thrown overboard. this is the same logic which drives some shipowners operating intra-community cabotage to operate vessels with insufficient crews and in conditions which endanger both the crews and navigation as a whole. these poor working conditions even threaten european maritime traditions and know-how, since they give such an image of the sector that it has become increasingly difficult to recruit european seamen! of course, this profit logic is never invoked. no, it is rather the argument of international competition, essentially asian and obviously 'unfair', which is used to justify these practices. even where such competition does not exist; have we ever seen chinese companies operating ferries in the baltic or the english channel? this competition is not about denying it. it affects a part of the sector, and it also has its merits. but she needs to be coached, and she needs to be loyal. above all, it is possible to choose the elements on which it is to be based, and although social dumping is unfortunately a sad reality in the maritime sector, it is not inevitable. so, yes, there are those who are accommodating, and seeking to profit from it. but it can also be refused by pushing for a general raising of social standards throughout the world, so that all are ultimately on an equal footing in international competition. this is the path i want europe to take, as you will have understood. because we know that competitiveness for europe will not be achieved by minimising costs and lowering social standards. it can only be done on quality. the quality of the ships, the quality of the crews, guaranteed by decent training and working conditions. the ilo convention, which we are discussing tonight, gives us the opportunity to make that choice. it doesn't solve all the problems, but it's a step forward. it is also an opportunity for european shipowners and member states to demonstrate their commitment to defending certain values which the european union and its social model embody. by signing it in february 2006, they signed a declaration of intent to this effect. we are now waiting for them to act. as far as shipowners are concerned, i can only welcome the fact that they have firmly and willingly embarked on the path of european social dialogue with their trade union partners, with a view to the signing, by the end of the year, of a european collective agreement which would incorporate the relevant provisions of this convention. a first round of negotiations ended today, and the climate seems very constructive. that's a good thing. and i think we can also welcome the constructive role played by the european commission in facilitating this process. the member states hold the key to the entry into force of this convention. as we said, if the eu and efta ratify, then the convention will enter into force, and it will apply everywhere. if europe ratifies quickly, other nations will follow, and europe will have played a leading role, also by demonstrating that another way is possible than that of exploitation and dumping, and that competition can also be responsible. it is therefore essential, if we are to believe in the specificity of the european model, to ensure that this convention is ratified quickly. and it is therefore essential to keep the ilo deadline of the end of 2008.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr jörg leichfried, on his excellent report and the quality of his work on this regulation. i fully agree with him when he says that the extension of the powers of the aviation safety agency is a step forward for the european union and for the safety of passengers. the regulation stipulates that aircraft from third countries will now only be able to fly in the european union if they have been certified by the agency. this text therefore provides a breakthrough in terms of security. each aircraft will be inspected and certified to be authorized to carry passengers into the union. it is also a step forward in terms of harmonising the protection of european citizens, which, commissioner, is part of the continuation of the process initiated with the european blacklist. this process is designed to ensure that each passenger is protected in the same way at any airport in the community. before concluding, i would like to say a few words about the way in which the new tasks of the european aviation safety agency will be financed. amendments proposing the levying of a tax on air tickets were tabled in committee. fortunately, they were rejected. we must stop trying to make the cost of these measures fall on the shoulders of the users. the airline ticket taxes are already very high and i hope we can find a way of financing them which does not directly affect air passengers.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am pleased and honoured to be speaking to you today for the first time as a representative of the presidency in the european parliament. you have said that on 25 march the european union will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome, and i think that this is a special day, a day on which we should pause for a few hours: pause in the political agenda, pause to look back at what i believe is a unique success story of european unity, but also pause to look ahead and ask ourselves: how are we europeans managing to find answers to the pressing questions of our time? we can be proud of what the people of europe have achieved in the last 50 years. the 25th of march should therefore be a day of confidence above all. the european parliament has played a major role in shaping the process of european unification. many of the achievements would not have been possible if the members of the european parliament had not been persistent and committed in their efforts to promote greater integration, democracy and transparency within the european union. the presidency is committed to good cooperation and trust with the european parliament. i would like to thank you for your support so far. when i say 'supported', i also mean the preparation of the berlin declaration which we want to adopt on 25 march, as a joint declaration by the three european institutions: the european council, the european parliament and the european commission. the european parliament and the commission have been involved and actively involved in the preparation of this declaration from the outset. i would like to thank you, mr president, and the whole house, for the confidence you have in the presidency on this important matter, and i thank you for agreeing to the procedure we have proposed. i know from my discussions and debates in the committee on constitutional affairs and the committee on foreign affairs how difficult it was for some of you to agree to this procedure. so thank you very much for your confidence in the process. we have set ourselves the task of strengthening the confidence and support of the citizens of europe during our presidency. we need dialogue, and we have been listening very closely to this in recent weeks and months, not only at very successful national conferences in berlin with the participation of randomly selected citizens, from whom we wanted to know what they expected from the eu. one thing seems clear to me in all this: if we want to win people over to europe, we must show by concrete examples that european unity is good for them. we must work to ensure that the european union faces the challenges of the future and offers convincing solutions. the european council of 8 and 9 march - you have just mentioned it - has shown that the eu can act with 27 member states, even in areas where citizens expect us to act in particular: energy and climate protection, for example. the success of the spring summit gives us confidence for the future of the presidency. we want to use the tailwind for the berlin declaration. if the summit's message is: 'if we europeans find the strength to act together, we can actively shape the future', then that is the right message. the chancellor, at the dinner of the heads of state or government on 8 march, - president barroso of the commission and you, mr president, were present - presented our ideas, as we have developed them in the detailed discussions with the representatives of parliament, the commission and the national governments. the text of the declaration is not yet finalized, of course, and i can assure you that what we hear in today's debate will of course be incorporated into our considerations for the final version. we want - and i have already reported this in the committees - a short text from a cast that sums up our declaration on the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome in a language that is understandable to the citizens. what are the key statements? the first part of the declaration is intended to celebrate what we have achieved together in europe over the last 50 years. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. without the will to freedom of the people of central and eastern europe - and we expressly acknowledge this in the declaration - none of this would have been possible. (applause from the centre) the successes of european unification, in my view, also include the forms and principles of our cooperation here in europe: democracy and the rule of law, equality of rights and obligations between the member states, transparency and subsidiarity. these principles - and we can take some pride in them - are certainly models for regional cooperation in other parts of the world. the next part of the declaration will include a common commitment to the core values: human dignity, freedom and responsibility, mutual solidarity, diversity and tolerance and respect in dealing with each other. because we know that the eu is more than just a common economic area. it is also a community of values, and this foundation of common values and perhaps a common outlook on life is an important prerequisite for europe to remain capable of acting as a political entity. the heart of the declaration will then, of course, be the future tasks which we in europe in the 21st century must tackle and tackle together. this includes energy and climate protection, a viable european foreign and security policy and, of course, the need to deal effectively with the threats posed by terrorism and organised crime without compromising human and civil rights. of course, this also includes finding common solutions to the problem of illegal immigration. but one message seems to me particularly important if we are to rebuild people's confidence in europe: europe stands for a model of society that combines economic competitiveness with social and environmental responsibility. freedom of enterprise is as much a part of the european experience as the rights and opportunities for participation of workers. the eu has a social face, and we want to make the social dimension of europe clear in the declaration. the european heads of government made a clear commitment to this in their conclusions last friday. we all know that the process of reform and renewal of the european union must continue. the next elections to the european parliament will be held in a little over two years' time, and the electorate has a right to know what instruments and options the european union should have at its disposal. we therefore hope that the declaration will also include a joint commitment to work on the necessary conditions for this. let me conclude by saying that the 50th anniversary is an opportunity for all of us, an opportunity to re-energize ourselves for the tasks ahead. let us put the things that unite us first on this day. let us use the symbolism of this day as a signal of unity. europe can succeed together! we have put our presidency under that slogan. the people of europe expect european politicians to have the will, the courage and the determination to act together. we shall also be tackling the second half of our presidency in this spirit. i ask for their continued support. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, president-in-office, honourable members, the meeting in berlin on 25 march is an important occasion. fifty years of european integration is certainly worth a celebration. it is an occasion to highlight all that unites us and to emphasise our common values and principles. but we can make it even more important by looking forward as much as we look back. this is an opportunity to put forward our shared objectives and ambitions, to underline our mutual respect and solidarity, and to reiterate our determination to build a better and stronger union for the benefit of all europeans. that is why the commission took the initiative in may last year to suggest an interinstitutional declaration on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the signature of the treaty of rome. the german presidency has been working hard to find a text which meets a number of different goals. we all agree that the text should be short and accessible, and that it should be an easy read with a shelf-life of more than a few days or weeks. we all agree that it should celebrate the achievements of 50 years of european integration, but also look ahead to inspire europeans for the future. we all want to see reflected in the text what it is that makes europe special for us, in what we value and in how we work. this is not an easy task, but we are in excellent hands with chancellor merkel, foreign minister steinmeier and their competent staff. i think that the decision to directly involve both the european parliament and the european commission has proved fully justified. the discussions that we have had between the parliament and the commission and with civil society representatives have provided valuable food for thought that can contribute to the overall reflection and to the essential work of the presidency. the bilateral discussions and the exchange at the european council last week have pointed to a broad consensus on the purpose, scope and flavour of the declaration. the end result will be a truly european commitment to move forward. much of the discussion in these final days will be centring on how to give the right flavour to the text on the union’s future ambitions. in january president barroso set out in this house our thinking on some key points. last week’s european council should give us renewed confidence that we need not be shy. we can be both ambitious and credible. the european union can and will continue to be a motor for positive change in europe and across the world. we believe that the text should be concrete without being too specific. it should reflect the genius of the european union in striking the right balance between the general and the particular, the common and the individual. we promote growth and economic development within a strong social framework. we enhance security and we promote individual rights. we work hard to support the interests of europeans, but with a keen sense of responsibility to the global community, as minister steinmeier also just explained. this is sometimes misunderstood as recipe for a lowest-common-denominator europe. this is wrong. it is rather a practical recognition of the fact that in a complex, fast-moving world we have to be light on our feet and we have to find new solutions to deep-seated challenges. this is exactly what we are now doing on climate change and energy. it is also important to give a sense that the european union is defined not only by what europe does, but how the union works. democracy, transparency and accountability are important guiding principles for the union of today. it would be an important signal for the member states and the institutions to underline the union’s commitment to a democratic way of working. the berlin meeting comes exactly half way through the german presidency and represents an important stepping stone on the path to a relaunch of the treaty review to strengthen the institutions of the european union. it follows an exceptionally successful european council meeting last week, a european council which has proven doomsayers wrong and has demonstrated that a european union of 27 is just as strong and bold as its earlier incarnations. enlargement has added purpose and dynamism to our work and i am convinced that it can continue to do so. as we look ahead, the june european council will provide the other key test. can we agree an outline on the way forward for the constitutional and institutional debate? last week’s work will certainly help. it has surely helped to put to rest the myth that the european union is in some way obsessed with navel-gazing and detached from citizens’ real concerns. the message should come out loud and clear that, if we are concerned about our institutions, it is because we want them to work well so that we can deliver on our citizens’ expectations and meet high standards of democracy. to conclude, i believe we are on track for a declaration in berlin on 25 march which meets the goals sketched out by the commission last may, endorsed by the european council and backed by this house. it will bring a momentum and urgency to the efforts to settle the constitutional and institutional debate. it will mobilise the efforts of all-round core priorities, it will show a european union united in its commitment to meet the aspirations of our citizens and to bring to the future work of the union the same dynamism and achievement that we have enjoyed for 50 years of the european adventure. (applause)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the epp-ed group has always, from its origins, advocated a more integrated, more united europe. we have always worked for a deepening of europe, for a political and ambitious europe. what has always brought us together is the defence of values, the promotion of freedoms, and in particular those of undertaking, of working, of enjoying the fruits of one's labour, but also the guarantee of security. the treaty of rome is the cornerstone of the european edifice. the one that made war between us now not only impossible, but unthinkable. for me, as a child, war was simply a reality. i am happy and proud that in our part of the world, and because we wanted it, this reality has become an abstraction. as i tell young people, nothing is ever gained forever, just as nothing is ever lost forever. but we are not all equal in this achievement. while all european nations have fought for freedom, peace and prosperity, many have had to endure 50 years of dictatorship, deprivation of liberty and precariousness under the yoke of communism. the countries of central and eastern europe have repeatedly overcome this artificial division in order to reintegrate into their original family and to allow europe to finally breathe with its two lungs. i would like to pay tribute to the people and citizens of these countries with admiration and affection. without them, without the revolutions of '56, '68 and '80, europe would never have experienced the 'velvet revolution' of the late '80s. and the berlin wall would probably still be the shame of our continent. we must also remember that 2007 marks not only the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome but also the 60th anniversary of the marshall plan. without the americans' help, without their decisive commitment to the europeans, the schuman declaration and the treaty of rome would have encountered more obstacles. the last 50 years have been a success story, and this story has just had a happy ending after the continent's reunification. but i believe that if we want it, this century can also be a largely european century. the treaty of rome, which is the foundation of the european union, is the most successful attempt at coexistence in history. our continent has thus become a place of similarities and rapprochement, not of division. the european union is not just an export of goods and services. it also teaches us our values. we act as a stabilizing force. is it not the prospect of closer cooperation that has led to the return of peace to south-eastern europe? the next 50 years will, however, be full of new challenges for all our countries. we're not starting from scratch, far from it. the first condition for success is to regain confidence in ourselves, to be aware of our strengths and to draw on our resources. the second condition for success in an unstable and globalised world is to be realistic, to make adaptation efforts without delay, with conviction and enthusiasm. but to adapt doesn't mean to flatten yourself, and give up who you are. reforming doesn't mean lying down and letting your identity be taken away. europeans have a very developed sense of human dignity, of respect for the individual. moreover, with the social market economy, europe offers a conception of the organization of life in society that is far removed from the idea of each man for himself and the excesses of the consumer society. the decision taken at last week's european council is to set common and ambitious targets in the field of energy and climate change. the current context is marked by five key challenges: demography, globalisation, multipolarity, energy and global warming, not to mention the fight against terrorism. in a globalised world, europe must respond with economic and social reforms in a world where new poles are emerging at high speed - i am thinking of asia, but also brazil. europe must benefit from its history and enhance its model of society. in this uncertain world, where terrorism has become a daily reality, europe must be both firm and determined; she can't be a hostage to terror. these, ladies and gentlemen, are the values we are leaving behind after 50 years of european integration. these are the challenges we must face from a new perspective. for our group, the epp-ed, it is only by having faith in their own creative and adaptive capacities that future generations will be able to develop and flourish in this new world. our role is modest, but demanding. in this transitional period, let us avoid dead ends, take the right path and build together on solid foundations. such a task requires not only lucidity but also political courage. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president-in-office, i do not know where you get your confidence. but you can also talk about confidence, but not have it. the european union is not a political union. but if we are talking about wealth and stability, we must also talk about poverty, which is also present in europe. i haven't heard anything about that today. and when we talk about the rule of law, we must also talk about the citizens who have no rights in europe. that is often forgotten, and i shall return to that. on the question of confidence in the procedure: yes, i am in the group of those who do not have confidence in the procedure. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i can't do that. and i want to tell you: i do not believe in these sherpas, i do not believe in the confessional, i do not believe in all these tricks, because in the end it is necessary to show in public where the contradictions between the individuals in europe lie. we saw it in the french referendum. we saw it in the netherlands. if we do not take people to europe, that is, if we do not discuss publicly where we have problems, then they will not come. i say to you: the text should be short, it should be simple, but not banal. that's the danger of your strategy: the banality that will come out in the end. so i suggest to you: you have spoken about climate, then be brave in this area! please state your objectives clearly so that we can understand them. the objectives are: the climate target of two degrees of warming at most, that's got to be in for the next 50 years. to use resources more efficiently, not only energy, but also water, paper, copper, aluminium. and: in 50 years, the european union will get 100% of its energy from renewable sources. those would be destinations where people would say, "hoppla! you've got something planned! i'm curious to see what's in your text. and if you are talking about climate, you have to say: we need a stability pact. we must give the commission the power to intervene in countries which do not follow the rules, as in the case of the stability pact for the single currency. binding objectives without sanctions, that doesn't even exist in my pedagogy, and my pedagogy is now truly free. it's not like you can do anything else. i have to say that i was hesitant on one point, mr president. you said one of the points was the fight against illegal immigration. before you say a word about the 50 million legal immigrants who live here and who need the same rights in europe as all europeans, you have just spoken about the illegal immigrants. that is the problem with europe, that we do not recognize these people, that we always subsume these people under the term illegal! don't think that's a small problem! there's a small european country that's so proud of the french revolution. one of the leading candidates has just proposed the creation of a ministry for immigrants and national identity. this is the danger that threatens europe, namely that we see immigrants as a threat to our european identity. they shake their heads go not only to the ministries, but listen to the debate on this subject in the cafes and pubs of europe! there are the people of europe. we are wrong if we always talk about illegal immigration and not about people who can be integrated here. i was just jerking off because i was thinking, "oh la la, what's next?" in conclusion, i would like to say one thing very clearly: let us be proud of the basic values we have formulated in the charter of fundamental values! it also means being proud of what we've said: freedom of sexual orientation, freedom for minorities, freedom for the people. these are the things i want to find in the berlin declaration, and not any reference to god or anyone else who is none of our business here. (applause from the centre)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, the fact that the union decides to commemorate the 50th anniversary of its foundation seems to me not only normal but also useful, since we are taking this opportunity to take a clear-eyed look at the road we have travelled and to draw the necessarily contradictory lessons from such an experience. on the other hand, if this were to be translated into a pure and simple celebration of a jubilee to exalt all the choices that led to this building and to glorify the results indiscriminately, then it would be of very limited interest from the point of view of historical analysis and, in terms of political efficiency, a blow in the water. but there is every reason to believe that the famous berlin declaration was, in the minds of its initiators, the latter. firstly, the method used to draw up the report: where there should have been a consultation open to the public, the decision was taken to close the doors to the public. i think that's a mistake. a second element concerns the substance of the declaration itself. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the treaty of rome, which will be presented to the european parliament in the autumn. do you really believe that the reality experienced by our fellow citizens is as smooth? i am convinced that no discourse on europe can have any real impact today unless it is accompanied by a good dose of critical thinking about the causes of the crisis of confidence that has been raging for the last few years almost everywhere in public opinion, in the european institutions. it is no longer just my group that is making this observation. it is, privately or in restricted circles, the acknowledgement by prominent politicians involved in the management of the union's affairs that there is a problem between europe as it is being built today and the europeans. the latest is none other than your colleague, mr president, the president-in-office of the ecofin council, mr peer steinbrück, who has just mentioned the risk - and i quote - of a 'crisis of legitimacy of the european economic and social model', and he is right. so we must talk about it to give meaning to the great european adventure. i am also pleased that the european union is able to overcome this crisis, and i and my group are calling for a leap forward so that on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, people will open their mouths to what needs to change in order to pave the way for a real revival of the european project. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the its group. mr president, 50 years ago in rome, the treaty between the six founding states of the union was signed with almost universal enthusiasm. it is true that we were emerging from a world war, a real european civil war, and that the peoples were longing for peace and prosperity. but 50 years later, what do we find? it is clear from a book of interviews between mr rocard and commissioner bolkestein, which is an extremely interesting book, that mr rocard no longer wants the union to be called european. the union has in fact betrayed europe: the free movement of capital, goods and people within europe presupposed that a reasonable border existed around it. the sacrifices made by the peoples of the member states required in return that community preference should be given, that each european state should give preference to the products of every other european state. the opposite has happened, because the european union as a whole has been left to the globalist interests with the consequences we know. it takes courage to say it. the european community is not a mere institution, but a political body. you can't do both. the consequences are well known: our industries are being ruined one after the other, our agriculture is doomed by 2013, and even our services are suspended. europe has created unemployment, precariousness and poverty by recklessly opening up its borders. it is very significant that mr schulz has set as an objective for europe that young people should be able to have a job that allows them to start a family, to acquire a minimum of wealth. but if mr schulz is going to say that and set this as a target for the european union, then it is good that the union has not met this minimum target for 50 years, which is much better met elsewhere in the world where developments are much more important than in the union. so let us take pride in our roots, our traditions, our sovereign nations! this has nothing to do with hate, mr. schulz. let us find healthy and fruitful cooperation at all levels and in all sectors. the name of our group - tradition, identity, sovereignty - is, in this respect, the harbinger of a new political springtime in europe.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, in its debates and conclusions on the lisbon strategy, the council has also marked a turning point in its approach to social issues. i welcome this and, as you have both said, i believe that the heads of state and government are aware that we cannot win back the confidence of the citizens unless we show that europe is committed to defending the european social model. the conclusions therefore mention not only the need to create more jobs and support growth, but also the need to defend the quality of jobs, working conditions, worker participation, and reconciliation between work and family life. it simply calls for two remarks. the first is that if we do not want this new social tone to remain a dead letter, it must be accompanied by an action plan, a revival of the european social agenda, perhaps even a council which is dedicated, as the last one was to the energy and renewable energy objectives, to the implementation of these social objectives. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the lisbon strategy, in particular on the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to achieve results, for example by exchanging good practice and by ensuring that those who do not follow through are punished. in addition, a number of issues which are blocked by the same council which calls for strengthening the social dimension of the union should be unblocked: the directive on working time, the revision of the directive on european works councils, the directive on temporary agency work. the second point is that there must be coherence between this new focus on the social dimension of the union and the whole of the policies that are being pursued elsewhere. defending the social model, when we also say that we want the complete liberalisation of the postal sector, as well as the electricity and gas sectors: is this entirely consistent? can these public service sectors be approached from the perspective of the internal market alone? does liberalization guarantee us public service missions, service to all territories, control of the rates? i think that a new balance must be proposed here too. that is why, as you know, the socialist group has asked for a draft framework directive on services of general interest to be considered.
mr president, the commissioner for the environment, mr dimas, was speaking at the end of this summit of groundbreaking decisions. i would like to share his enthusiasm but in this concert of praise, allow me to express my skepticism. it is true that climate policy is finally being integrated into the economic policy of the european union. that's a good thing. however, i remember the lisbon summit in march 2000 when the european union set itself the objective of being the most competitive knowledge-based economy by 2010. five years later, we saw the poor results. i do not want this summit to be just another farce and a great disappointment. i am in favour of the development of renewable energy but it is only a partial answer to the problem of global warming. of course, we have to think about energy efficiency, insulation of buildings. wind power must be developed, but its impact is very limited, it cannot be relied upon: there is no electricity when the wind is too weak, nor is there any when the wind is too strong. solar energy is to be promoted, but we do not have enough artisans trained in these new technologies. i regret the council's timidity in admitting that nuclear energy is one of the effective responses to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. mrs merkel wants the european union to be a pioneer in the fight against global warming. everyone agrees, but it is only hypocrisy when we know that some member states, which today reject nuclear power, buy energy from this source when they need it for the survival of their economies. it is still hypocritical for mrs merkel to want to fight co2 and at the same time to strengthen her policy of coal-fired power stations for electricity production, when we know the disastrous effects on the environment. it is hypocritical that germany, which no longer wants to have nuclear power at home, is selling its nuclear power plant technology to china. finally, hypocrisy, commissioner, when you expect industry to make efforts but the german presidency protects the large cylinders of cars which consume too much energy and emit too much co2. so yes, i agree with the conclusions of this summit, but action must follow the talk because the actions of today will not produce their effects for thirty years. finally, the european union must regain its influence in order to impose green diplomacy.
in writing. the establishment of a european asylum and immigration policy requires comprehensive and comparable european statistics on a range of migration-related issues. this proposal, which establishes common rules for the collection and compilation of statistics in this field, should make it possible to have comparable figures in order to have a picture of migration flows in europe. i particularly wanted figures relating to the so-called accelerated procedures to be included in this proposal. europe must ensure that the accelerated procedure is not systematically generalized and that the need for international protection, the right to asylum and the principle of non-refoulement are guaranteed. finally, we wanted separate statistics for people who are transferred, in accordance with the dublin ii regulation on the determination of the member state responsible for an asylum application. it would appear that this regulation places a disproportionate burden on member states at the external borders of the union. in the absence of the commission's evaluation, which was originally scheduled for the end of 2006, statistical data will allow us to confirm this.
in writing. i voted in favour of the leichtfried report on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a european aviation safety agency. i consider the proposal to extend the role of the european aviation safety agency (easa) to establish common aviation safety standards applicable to all airlines operating in europe, whether or not they are based in the european union, to be a step forward. european citizens are now very concerned about the respect of standards that can guarantee them maximum security. in this respect, easa is empowered to impose fines and periodic financial penalties where safety standards are not properly applied. i also supported proposals to extend the competence of the european aviation safety agency to pilot licensing to verify that pilots meet the criteria of training and professional and linguistic competence. i also supported a similar amendment to require the same certification for cabin crew.
in writing. we still see far too many air disasters, which are not only due to the poor condition of some aircraft but also to non-compliance with safety requirements. the merit of this proposal by parliament and the council is that it strengthens the obligations of the member states in respect of inspection of aircraft of third countries as well as of aircraft of community countries. in addition, if an inspection of air carriers or the activities of civil aviation authorities reveals anomalies or non-compliance with standard safety rules, the european aviation safety agency will have the power to trigger a sanction mechanism and to withdraw the authorisation to carry passengers to the union from the air carriers found to be in breach. i believe that this is a significant step forward in the prevention of the risk of aircraft accidents. finally, the work and mission of this agency will help to complete, i hope, the european blacklist of bad carriers. although not all questions have been resolved in the field of aviation safety, it seems that prevention and enforcement are finally being brought together in this area. we will vote in favour.
in writing. it's about time! it is time we had a report which took into account the specific features of social services of general interest. the sgei, as distinguished from other services of general economic interest, deserved this clarification of the definition of their tasks and of their organisational principles. on the other hand, the sigis are an essential component of the european social model which we are keen not only to defend but above all to promote. it is therefore pleased that the european parliament has taken up this important subject. the compromise we have reached here is satisfactory, which is why i voted in favour of the hasse ferreira report. this choice appears to be in line with the european parliament's votes since the gebhardt/harbour compromise on the services directive, and more recently since the rapkay/hokmark compromise on the rapkay report. i would like to make it clear that such a choice does not imply any commitment to a framework directive on sgeis. however, this report cannot be sufficient. i am referring to the necessary sectoral directive on health services.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on social services of general interest. i welcome the continuity and consistency of parliament's vote on the need for legal certainty and clarification of the community framework for social services of general interest. i believe that this report strikes a balance between the application of community law in the strict sense and the fulfilment of the general interest tasks of the social services. this is a necessary preliminary step to the establishment of a sectoral directive on social services of general interest, which parliament has clearly called for in the rapkay report on the white paper on services of general interest. i also welcome the proposal to convene a forum on social services of general interest at the initiative of parliament and call for its effective establishment under the portuguese presidency of the european union.
in writing. paragraph 6 of this report on social services of general interest recalls 'the freedom of national authorities to define, organise and finance social services of general interest as they see fit', under the principle of subsidiarity. this one sentence, despite the union's alleged 'co-responsibility', makes the rest of the text useless: public services are and must continue to be the sole prerogative of the states. and it is up to each state to decide whether these services depend on the market, or on national solidarity guaranteeing the common good, or on a fair proportion between these two elements. in other words, it is not for the commission or the luxembourg court of justice to define, let alone regulate, public services. we know well what happens if this is not done: privatization of profits in the name of ultraliberalism and competition, to the great advantage of international capital; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. it is difficult to overstate the responsibility of these policies for the social disintegration our countries are experiencing today.
in writing. mr ferreira is right when he says that social services of general interest are an essential component of the european social model, based on the protection of the most vulnerable people: children, the elderly, the sick, the disabled, the unemployed, etc. three phenomena are challenging this social model today. one, uncontrolled immigration is wrecking our welfare systems. in france, for example, the cost of providing free public health care to illegal immigrants is estimated at 600 million euros a year. secondly, the destruction of frontiers which, by subjecting our companies to international competition and social dumping, particularly in china, destroys the economic basis of this social model. thirdly, the gradual abolition of public services decided in 2000 at the european summit in lisbon. the report by mr ferreira does not propose any solution, because these phenomena are the result of the ultra-liberal ideology implemented by the europe of brussels. only a different europe, the europe of the homelands, based on respect for national sovereignty, on community preference and on borders protecting it from unrestrained immigration and unfair international competition, will enable our nations to rebuild a european social model.
in writing. social services of general interest are an essential component of the european social model. the communication presented by the european commission on these services opens up the prospect of clarifying their place within the european union as regards the social aspects, the concepts applicable to them and the legal certainty to be granted to them. the models for the organisation and management of gis differ widely in the various member states. one of the aspects on which the commission must concentrate is the creation of a legal instrument, and in particular a sectoral directive, to guarantee political clarity of procedures and legal certainty for the social organisations concerned. the holding of a forum by parliament under the portuguese presidency, in collaboration with all the social partners, will help to achieve this objective. the gis contributes significantly to the social dimension of the lisbon strategy, both in terms of the volume of employment it can create and in terms of the social cohesion it helps to ensure in a differentiated way in the european union. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of mr hasse ferreira's report.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am even more pleased, after what i have just heard, to present this report to you today. it shows that the union's mediterranean policy is a priority for our institution and must remain so. the report i am presenting to you analyses the results of more than 12 years of cooperation in the objectives of the barcelona conference. it also proposes the establishment of a mutually beneficial euro-mediterranean free trade area. this work, which has been going on for several months, has been carried out in close cooperation with various experts, ngos, government representatives from the mediterranean countries and, of course, my colleagues in parliament. let me thank them for their cooperation. this good collective intelligence, nourished by the constructive work of the counter-rapporteurs, whom i warmly thank, allows me, i believe, to arrive at a balanced text reflecting all the concerns and questions. this spirit, this general balance, reinforced by the vote in committee, must guide the vote in plenary tomorrow. we must first establish a finding. although each part of the world has its own specific features, relations between the union and the southern shore of the mediterranean are marked by a history of conflict, misunderstanding and instability, a troubled and even tragic history. that is why i have tried to construct this report with a view to a highly political approach. a hope was born with the barcelona summit in 1995. the political will expressed was to build a comprehensive partnership between the european union and the mediterranean countries, with the aim of making the region a common area of peace, stability and prosperity. but we must now see that the results have not lived up to the hopes and expectations. we have been living in an unstable political context since then: the war in lebanon, the absence of prospects for peace in the middle east, the complex relations between the western world and the arab and muslim countries since 11 september 2001, the distant relations between the partners in the south. i would like to add that i believe it is wrong to think that europe does not make its relationship with the southern shore of the mediterranean a priority. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the countries of central and eastern europe, and the european union has been involved in the negotiations with the countries of central and eastern europe. this would mean the end of convergence and the emergence of divergences fuelled by competition between countries. the context is also one of a triple asymmetry in the economic, social and demographic fields. this glaring asymmetry between the two parties to the free trade area, i.e. the union and the mediterranean countries, is also strong between the countries of the southern shore and, finally, within some of these countries, between the coastal and urbanised regions and the rural interior. in the face of all these difficulties, we need strong political will, but we must also be realistic. for this reason, and in view of the sometimes substantial delays in the implementation of the economic and political reforms necessary for the creation of a genuine euro-mediterranean market, i consider it necessary to reconsider the 2010 deadline as the date of entry into force of this free trade area. the implications of such an area and the changes it will introduce call for greater caution on the part of all partners, particularly when dealing with unequal partners. in the context of the creation of this free trade area, the main objective must remain trade for development and poverty reduction, particularly in this region where 30% of the population lives on two dollars a day and where mass unemployment and uncontrolled emigration are the only horizon for an increasing number of young people. our priority must be the creation of a genuine euro-mediterranean socioeconomic area, integrating all social and environmental issues into the economic sphere. that is why i am in favour of a free trade area which is being built in a gradual, controlled, gradual and concerted way. it must also be adapted to the socioeconomic realities of each country. the opening up of markets cannot be done at the expense of the countries of the south, taking the risk of further weakening a number of key sectors which are now sensitive and which would be due to a competitive confrontation. we all know that their agriculture is not very competitive and diversified, with a majority of small farms whose structures need to be modernised, and that it requires us to think deeply about a form of integrated agricultural policy, focused on food security. we also know that these are countries where a low-technology and low-value-added industry has developed and that we must help them by investing in training and research, but also by modernising production structures. we know that we must not pressure these countries to open up their services markets abruptly, while keeping public services out of the negotiations. we must ensure that this is done, otherwise we will have worked against the desired development and to the detriment of the social welfare of the people concerned. it is therefore imperative to give our partners the right to control the pace of their commercial opening and their development strategy. the overall strengthening of the competitiveness of the economies of the med countries is therefore essential to ensure their economic diversification, their successful integration into world trade and the fair distribution of the expected benefits. maintain an asymmetric system based on trade preferences and the maintenance of supply management tools; attract investment, which is scarce in this area; the commission will continue to support the efforts of the european parliament and the council to promote the development of the mediterranean region, to ensure a stable investment area and to provide for regional euro-mediterranean infrastructure and transport networks; to work towards political and economic rapprochement between the countries of the southern mediterranean in order to promote a real strengthening of cooperation and integration. in conclusion, i would like to stress the urgent need for renewed political will on the part of all the partners and for genuine cooperation to be returned to the union's priorities, which are the essential conditions for the relaunch and success of the barcelona process and a euro-mediterranean socioeconomic area. without this, the free trade area risks becoming the symbol of the euromed misunderstanding. for my generation, it is urgent to move to a time of reconciliation, and that is the challenge we must meet, ladies and gentlemen. ensuring the stability and development of this area is ensuring the development of democracy and our stability.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr kader arif, on his timely analysis. from an agricultural point of view, while the opening up of markets now offers real prospects for economic development on both sides of the mediterranean, it is important that this development be based on the experience of the local population and the actors on the ground. it is essential that the process be implemented in a measured, product-by-product, and graduated manner in order to take account of small farms, which are the most fragile, the most numerous and the most capable of developing a multifunctional agriculture that respects natural resources and local development. this regulatory work involves strengthening trade preferences on the basis of an asymmetrical relationship to the benefit of the most vulnerable countries. it also includes accompanying measures to help them modernise their production structures and to help develop synergies through technical and financial cooperation between professionals and through common labelling policies.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, our colleagues bonsignore and napoletano have just reminded us that at the end of this week the representatives of the peoples living on both sides of the mediterranean will meet in this forum, which has fortunately been transformed into a parliamentary assembly, where they have been striving since its foundation to develop relations of trust, the importance of which you, mr president-in-office of the council, have rightly stressed. this will be our first meeting in plenary since the lebanese tragedy, where europe had remained silent for too long and where it finally intervened in a dispersed fashion, at the initiative of one or another member state. we know very well that it was the union itself, the heir to the humanistic and cultural values we know and with its economic power and demographic size, that was expected to play a role of intervention first, then mediation. perhaps the time had not yet come to make the union's voice heard, perhaps it is more opportune today. javier solana, our high representative, was in beirut the day before yesterday. he was received yesterday by king abdullah of saudi arabia; he's scheduled to meet with syrian president bashar al-assad today. i hope that these steps will help to strengthen the hope that has been created by the recent diplomatic initiatives which at last give a hint of calm. calm in lebanon after meeting between prime minister and head of parliament; the european union is also committed to the peace process in the middle east. the first signs of calm in the whole of the middle east after the first international conference in baghdad last saturday. it is under these auspices that we must continue to develop parliamentary diplomacy in tunis, which i hope will bring our israeli and palestinian colleagues closer together, who have hardly had, since our last plenary session a year ago, the irreplaceable opportunity to meet and exchange to help overcome the disease of fear of the other, from which their two peoples have suffered so much.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the key elements of euromed relations, of all the resolutions and declarations on them, are the middle east peace process, the fight against terrorism, cooperation on asylum and immigration policy, the promotion of democracy and human rights. but how far and how deep the gap is between the statements and the modest results! in the middle east, the european union has great difficulty in supporting the truly impartial application of international law. the rhetoric that the european union has developed so far on respect for fundamental rights in the fight against terrorism has taken on a new lease of life since the fava report on immigration. the european union's policy is very straightforward in confining migrants and refugees in their area of origin or transit, in violation of their fundamental rights. finally, the poor performance in terms of democratization and human rights is daily confronted by the names of human rights defenders - journalists, political opponents, prisoners of conscience or trade unionists - languishing in prison. in tunisia, where the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, apem, will meet for its plenary session, all eu-funded projects in favour of civil society are blocked. not a single journalist can speak freely. the tunisian league for human rights, the journalists' union and other associations are still prevented from holding their congresses. mr abou, a lawyer and human rights defender whose release we had already called for in june 2006, has just begun his third year in prison. ladies and gentlemen, we know that the participation of civil society in the process and the democratic and parliamentary control of euro-mediterranean policies are the key to the revival of a virtuous dynamic, a dynamic for peace, a dynamic for sustainable development and for human rights. the euromed parliamentary assembly must therefore make every effort to support, promote and involve civil society networks and actors in its work and to develop a genuine independent and autonomous capacity of governments, a capacity to evaluate, to give impetus and to propose within the framework of the euro-mediterranean policy.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleague, mr kader arif, on the excellent report he has produced and is presenting today. as my colleagues have said, at the end of the week the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly will meet in tunis. the work of apem over the past three years has drawn an increasingly constructive political perspective, but the middle east conflict remains the number one problem. in this connection, the paem will hold an extraordinary meeting in cairo on this issue in june. the parliamentarians from both sides of the mediterranean who are present in apem are determined to contribute to a lasting peace. the european union must be more active in this conflict and must urgently restore financial aid to the palestinians, as the world bank has recommended in its latest report. europe and its partners must redouble their efforts to create free trade areas. the european union must encourage the reforms undertaken in the south through the effective use of the new neighbourhood instrument; it must support the euro-mediterranean investment and partnership facility, femip, and its necessary transformation into a genuine development bank dedicated to the mediterranean. the countries of the south must take ownership of the partnership and work towards greater regional integration in order to create a zone of prosperity for mutual benefit. the european union and its partners are therefore called upon to act in order to meet the challenge of ambitious and effective trade liberalisation. in this spirit, europe must also help to reduce one of the major causes of imbalances, namely unemployment in the countries of the southern mediterranean. every year, four million young people in the global south enter the job market without finding a job. at the same time, the trade imbalance in europe's favour amounts to tens of billions of euros. this situation is getting worse every year; it is not in keeping with the logic of free trade, it is the source of increasing impoverishment and a source of unrest. finally, we must all work together to strengthen the dialogue of civilizations in a region with exceptional historical and human wealth. the cultural issue is perhaps the most important because it is in the hearts of men that the desire for war or peace is born.
madam president, immigration is a difficult issue in the barcelona process, it is a complex phenomenon which must be dealt with in all its dimensions and not just in its security dimension, which is too often put forward. all too often, europe has imposed the themes of the euro-mediterranean agenda, making terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, drug trafficking and immigration predominate in a kind of amalgam. we must not continue in this way: migration flows, population exchanges are an economic necessity and a human resource for the host countries. i would like to make three proposals in this connection. legal channels for immigration must be opened and illegal immigration channels, which exploit poverty and generate a new form of modern slavery, must be tackled. the political dimension of the partnership must be strengthened, as democracy, respect for fundamental freedoms, the status of women and good governance make a powerful contribution to development and also help to stem the emigration of poverty. finally, it is essential to establish operational cooperation between the authorities responsible for managing migration flows on both sides of the mediterranean, and in this respect i welcome the european initiative frontex, whose resources must be increased.
in writing. the proposed euro-mediterranean free trade area has fallen behind schedule, making completion unlikely by 2010. there is, however, an urgent need to take initiatives in this part of the world where the union should be much more present. our first priority should be, through the european neighbourhood policy, a more targeted, country-by-country approach. the fact that the interest is collective does not mean that the approach must be global. the development of tailor-made cooperation is necessary if each country is to become economically strong enough to participate in the free trade area. this cooperation must be open to the local authorities on both sides of the river, in order to establish strong links at all political levels. our second objective must be to boost south-south trade, which is still insufficient. the union has unique expertise, drawn from its enlargements, to bring to partner countries to help them prepare in key areas of their economic transition, such as education, research, training, preparation of economic and administrative actors and approximation of legislation. the euro-mediterranean free trade area can be established by supporting the creation of a genuine mediterranean common market.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we welcome the initiative of the european parliament to propose a recommendation to the council on bosnia and herzegovina. we have read the detailed report and recommendation with great interest and see a broad consensus in the analysis of the situation in bosnia and herzegovina and on what steps sarajevo and the international community should take next. the general affairs council, at its last meeting on 5 march, welcomed the formation of the new government in bosnia and herzegovina. it was formed after difficult negotiations on 9 february as a broad coalition of major parties of the three ethnic groups under the new prime minister nikola spiric, a bosnian serb. the council also called on prime minister spiric to ensure the rapid and effective implementation of the whole package of reforms still to be implemented. the commission also stressed that the eu had a clear policy on the environment and that it was not prepared to accept the new approach. the saa negotiations were successfully concluded at the end of 2006 at the technical level. the four outstanding preconditions for the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement are three reforms, namely the police, public broadcasting and public administration. the fourth condition is cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. with the progress that has been made, the new government of prime minister spiric would have the opportunity to open the door to the eu even further. police reform in particular is now the focus of the european union's attention. the police reform agreement of october 2005 confirmed the basic principles of the changes sought, namely overall state responsibility for police matters, exclusion of political influence and the need for functional police districts. the police reform directorate submitted its final report on 27 december last year, which now needs to be approved at the political level by the governments and parliaments of the entire state and the entities. the main points of dispute are the demand of republika srpska to maintain its police and interior ministries and police districts that cross the entity boundaries. the council called on the new government to use the current momentum to push forward police reform. it is and remains a precondition for the signing of a stabilisation and association agreement. the eu welcomes the discussions on the report of the directorate-general for police. the commission is also concerned that the deadline of 2 march for reaching an agreement on police reform has not been met. the european union expects all parties to honour the commitments they made in the political agreement of october 2005. we urge the parties to reach an agreement which respects the three principles mentioned by the european commission. firstly, the establishment of powers in police law and the financing of the police at the level of the whole state. secondly, functioning police districts based on technical criteria for police work. thirdly, no political interference in the operational work of the police. the european parliament has also been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the way forward is now clear once the government is in place. the rapid adoption of the package of constitutional amendments agreed by six political parties in march 2006 would be a positive first step. it would provide the basis for a wider process to be launched by mid-2007 to help bosnia and herzegovina become a more effective state in its functions. the council has therefore decided to extend the mandate of the eusr in bosnia and herzegovina. from 1 march, the eusr, dr schwarz-schilling, will provide advice and mediation in the constitutional reform process on the basis of an extended mandate. in june last year, the dayton peace implementation council (pic) decided in principle to close the office of the high representative on 30 june 2007 and to terminate the function of the high representative. however, this decision had to be revised during the pic review, the so-called review process, at the end of february, as the development since the summer of 2006 has unfortunately not been in line with expectations. the resurgence of nationalist rhetoric and the stagnation of reforms do not make it easier to start a sustainable process. in addition, regional uncertainties have arisen following delays in the process of kosovo's status. the latter have been the ones who have pushed the peace implementation council to postpone the transition date. the peace implementation council is therefore assessing the situation in bosnia and herzegovina in the same way as the european parliament's proposal for a recommendation, as i understand from paragraph 32 of your proposal for a recommendation from the european parliament to the council. however, russia has not been able to follow this position beyond the november 2007 decision. it announced that it would draw its own conclusions. the european union has a duty to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina to find a way to return to their homeland. there have, of course, been different reactions to the fact that bosnia and herzegovina's claims against serbia have not been addressed. the serbs, ignoring the warnings of the court, have been relieved in part, but the bosniaks have been disappointed and frustrated. we hope and wish that, despite these different reactions, the judgment of the court of justice will finally lead to a fair conclusion to this painful chapter, because this too is a very important condition for the future prosperous development of bosnia and herzegovina.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mrs pack on her excellent report, which is an important contribution to our joint work concerning bosnia and herzegovina. the year 2006 was not a year of success for bosnia and herzegovina. as a result of an extended election campaign, the reform agenda stagnated and the political climate turned sour, reflecting a zero-sum mentality, as mrs pack said, leading to nationalist rhetoric and tensions. to be frank, we have had enough of it! let me update you on the state of talks on the stabilisation and association agreement. bosnia and herzegovina has continued to make progress, albeit slowly. in december, we were able to finalise the technical talks on the saa. however, we will not conclude the saa negotiations before tangible progress has been made on key conditions, especially police reform and cooperation with the war crimes tribunal. this will be my main message when i visit sarajevo tomorrow and friday. firstly, bosnia and herzegovina and its citizens need an efficient and effective police service. it is important that the state and entity authorities, together with the political parties, finally agree on the reform in line with the proposal from the directorate for police restructuring as well as the three eu principles referred to by mr ehler. secondly, bosnia and herzegovina also needs to show that it is serious in its commitment to cooperate with the icty. recent actions by republika srpska to crack down on some of the fugitives’ support networks are encouraging in this regard. the authorities must now remain proactive and continue their efforts aiming at tangible results, arrests and transfers. it is important that the recent judgment of the international court of justice in the case of bosnia and herzegovina versus serbia is accepted and respected by all. the verdict underlines individual responsibility of the genocide and thus the absolute necessity of full cooperation with the icty, including the arrest and transfer of the fugitives. there have been some attempts to politicise the icj verdict, which is regrettable because it hinders reconciliation and takes attention away from more important policy and political matters, such as solving the issue of police reform, which should be the first priority. this does not benefit the country or its citizens. we also need to see tangible progress on the reforms of public broadcasting and public administration before we can sign the saa, as expressed by the president-in-office of the council. for the future of bosnia and herzegovina, constitutional reform is essential. it is necessary in order to make the country functional, efficient and affordable for its citizens. this process should be led by bosnia and herzegovina itself, based on consensus and supported by the entities and peoples. the adoption of the april package from last year would be an important step towards more ambitious objectives. the commission is ready to support the work for constitutional development by both providing experts and funds. the commission continues to support and promote people-to-people contacts between bosnia and herzegovina and the eu. the visa facilitation negotiations have progressed well, and we should be able to conclude these negotiations very soon. our aim is to have the visa facilitation and readmission agreements in force with all the countries of the western balkans before the end of this year. other measures include scholarships through the erasmus mundus programme, as well as increased support for research, education, culture and civil society dialogue. international presence in bosnia and herzegovina is, and should be, in transformation. as a transitional measure, the commission can support the decision of the peace implementation council to delay the closure of the office of the high representative by a further 12 months. we have critical months ahead with bosnia and herzegovina, also taking into account the kosovo status talks. for their part, the leaders of the country must rise above parochial party interests and show real statesmanship for the sake of their country and their people. this year of 2007 is, and should be, seen as a year of opportunities for bosnia and herzegovina. as long as everyone does his or her part, we can succeed in bringing bosnia and herzegovina towards its european future. i am glad that i can count on the solid support of the european parliament for this important objective.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, fifteen years ago, almost to the day, i arrived in sarajevo on the eve of the tragedy that was to make that city the capital of the martyrs, whose survival we could have despaired of for a moment. i was arriving in sarajevo, a model of coexistence between three cultures: croatian, serbian and muslim. this city where the bells of the catholic cathedral answered those of the orthodox churches and the call of the muezzin, this city rich in its diversity, without any ghetto, whose inhabitants serbs, croats and muslims lived together in the same neighborhoods, the same buildings, without even knowing who was serb, croat or muslim. on 4 april 1992, i witnessed in this city the desperate attempt of the entire population, men and women, young and old, serbs, croats and muslims, to march through the city to clear the barricades that the ethnic cleansing supporters had begun to erect. i saw these barricades give way one by one before the crowd, at the end of the demonstration, you may remember, was taken to task by the crazy militiamen of karadjic. i love this city, this province, this republic, for having known their riches and above all for having shared their suffering born of the disease of fear of the other, of the fear of being eliminated and of losing one's identity, so many fears that irresponsible criminals had unleashed there. it is in this spirit that i cannot but welcome the report by our colleague, mrs doris pack, whose commitment to this parliament is well known and whose dedication to reconciliation in this once peaceful and multiethnic country is commended, as she says in her report. in this country we must encourage it on the road to european integration by pushing it to adopt the constitutional changes which, as you said, mr president of the council, are indispensable, despite the persistence within part of its political class of radical discourses still too imbued with ultranationalism.
the president of the council. mr president, mr verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am pleased that the topic of the 'future of the european aviation industry' is being discussed today. this sector embodies the sustainability, high technology and growth potential of europe and makes a significant contribution to the achievement of the lisbon strategy's objectives for growth and jobs. airbus is the outstanding project. airbus is a great idea, to pool the technological expertise of several european nations and create a strong company in the aviation industry that can compete on the world market. airbus has written a stunning success story. airbus aircraft 4,600 delivered to date represent european high technology at all airports in the world. airbus is thus making an important contribution to european identity. but airbus also has serious problems. in 2006, airbus was in a state of boom and bust. on the one hand, airbus was the number one in the world market in 2006, a proud achievement. on the other hand, the massive delay in the delivery of the a380, the new wide-body aircraft, caused a massive drop in the company's profits. problems also arise from the weak dollar. airbus is produced in euros and sold in dollars. the development lag between the a350 xwb and the american competitor model must also be reduced. the aircraft industry is facing a technological revolution. it's about the transition from the metal age to the plastic age. the problem has been recognized across the atlantic more quickly than here. the market demands such aircraft. airbus is now looking to gain new momentum. airbus must increase its competitiveness, ensure its future viability. the future is only guaranteed by constantly renewing efforts and the willingness and ability to innovate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in this context, airbus management is well advised to discuss the necessary measures in close dialogue with its employees. after all, employees are the most important asset of a company. the opportunity for greater job security may well lie in attracting strong industrial partners who will bring in their own capital and know-how and share the risk as well as the opportunities with airbus. the decision to do so is entirely up to the company itself. the political environment is the responsibility of the political authorities. it should ensure that there is a fair balance of opportunities and burdens between the european nations involved. this is about jobs and technological skills. this fair distribution of opportunities and burdens among the european nations involved seems to be working. there are also a number of other european projects, such as augusta westland, eurofighter or eurocopter, which have also succeeded in using the technological expertise of individual partners in transnational cooperation to develop and produce products that are competitive on the world market. european cooperation is not only at the level of system manufacturers but also at the level of subcontractors, engine manufacturers, such as thales, diehl, rolls royce, mtu, snecma, alenia and others, to name just a few examples. all these companies and their employees are contributing to the european aviation industry's positioning in the face of increasing international competition. i would like to conclude by addressing the issue of climate protection and environmental sustainability. for me, this is a question of the capacity of our society to innovate. the european aviation industry has already taken up the technological challenge in 2000. in the vision 2020, industry, science and policy have jointly defined ambitious goals and challenges for a sustainable aviation system. the aim is to reduce specific fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions by 50% by 2020, specific nitrogen oxide emissions by 80% and take-off and landing noise by half by 2020. achieving these ambitious goals in just over a decade will require a concerted effort by all actors.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the aerospace industry is a key contributor to europe's industrial and technological capability in the fields of transport, communications, earth observation, security and defence. europe can only achieve its economic and political objectives with a globally competitive aerospace industry. the european aerospace industry is a world leader in several key market segments. their share of the world market is more than one third. in 2005, the last year for which figures are available, it generated sales of eur 86 billion and employed 457 000 people. despite the difficulties of recent times, the sector continues to grow. in particular, the market for large civil aircraft is growing. airbus delivered 434 new aircraft last year, a record number, as secretary of state hintze has already stressed. airbus has a backlog of more than 2,500 aircraft, which is more than five years' work. with passenger and air traffic forecast to grow by 5% per annum and air freight by 6% per annum, over 22,500 new large civil aircraft will be needed over the next twenty years, with a total value of eur 2 trillion at current prices. however, airbus has made headlines in the last few weeks and months in a rather undesirable way. we would all rather read about further big airbus market successes than about losses and redundancies. the european aerospace industry operates in a highly competitive global market and faces well-positioned competitors in all market segments, such as boeing. industry must continually invest and innovate to meet the needs of its customers with its products. airbus is a major part of the european aerospace industry, a truly european company, currently employing 57,000 in-house and 30,000 external employees and sourcing products and services from numerous companies large and small. this company, like all others, must continually adapt to changing conditions and must design its processes and structures in such a way that it can produce the products demanded by the market profitably. it is indeed aggravated by the fact that airbus has to sell its products in dollars while having to bear its costs in the stronger euro currency. this makes it all the more important for airbus to be able to make rational, difficult business decisions in order to restore its position in the market. unfortunately, airbus' decision to outsource some of its activities to improve its efficiency as a savings and restructuring programme will result in a reduction in the workforce, and this creates uncertainty and calls for political intervention. while politicians cannot and should not interfere in decisions taken by companies to restore their competitiveness politics is not responsible for management decisions by companies there are opportunities and perhaps even a moral duty to help dismissed workers to retrain and find new jobs in other companies, possibly in other sectors. the member states may, for example, draw on the european social fund. the commission notes with satisfaction that airbus had already involved employee representatives in the decisions to be taken for the restructuring in progress some time before. in particular, it is worth noting that the european employee representatives were fully involved and that the impact of the restructuring on airbus' subcontractors was also discussed. in view of the growth that is expected and which is the envy of many other industries, it is also important that the steps that will ensure the long-term success of the european aerospace industry and thus benefit us all are taken today. this is one of the reasons why the commission is taking action wherever possible - for example, by establishing a european space programme or creating a european arms market and a single european airspace - to create favourable conditions for free competition. the eu also allocates substantial funding to research and development in the fields of aeronautics and space in its seventh framework programme for research. all companies involved in such research are invited to submit proposals for projects on a cost-sharing basis, which will then be selected for funding through a competition. i would like to stress in this context the outstanding importance of the clean sky joint technology initiative. this joint technology initiative will enable the european aerospace industry to take up the challenge posed by the climate debate to the aviation industry. i would like to make a very clear appeal to the european aircraft manufacturers and also to the airlines, that they should be very careful not to suffer the same damage to their image as the automobile industry in europe has suffered in recent weeks, because it is too late to respond to the demands of our time. it is in this area that there is an urgent need to be modern, innovative, research and development, and the european union, in clean sky, offers an effective and strong platform for this.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, as deputy mayor of toulouse, i can testify, having visited the company's premises on several occasions, that the airbus restructuring plan is a test, a test for each of the employees concerned, and the way out of it is to identify the causes correctly. of course, there is the appreciation of the euro and the delays linked to the manufacturing errors of the a380, but above all there has been a governance of the group which has been intergovernmental instead of industrial, and we must draw the right conclusions for the future. we all know that what airbus suffered was not a lack of government involvement in the company, but rather the political interference that interfered with the management of the company, which ended up functioning more like an international organisation than an integrated company. for the future, airbus needs a new shareholders' pact, which will give more room to industrial shareholding. this means that the current shareholders must clearly indicate their intentions. do they want to continue their involvement or do they need to find new financial and industrial partners? when we said that, did we mean that the authorities should disregard the case? of course not, and i welcome the fact that europe has been on the scene. commissioner barrot and you yourself, commissioner verheugen, have announced that the union will support airbus' efforts by strengthening its research programmes. however, i would like to ask you, commissioner, to clarify the possibilities of using the european globalisation adjustment fund and the european social fund for the benefit of employees. the member states can also help airbus, and especially its subcontractors, by providing aid for research and training of employees. on the other hand, to imagine rescuing airbus through the participation of a few french regions - i believe that we would end up with 0.6% of the capital - is unrealistic! in conclusion, i would like to remind everyone that although airbus is facing difficulties, this company has achieved many successes. i have confidence in its future, in the success of the a380, in the success of the a350. in times of crisis and difficulty, we must put aside national egos and show ourselves strong and united, strong because we are united.
on behalf of the alde group. in competition with new york city, the city of los angeles has asked airbus to be the first to welcome the very large european carrier, a testament to the expected success of the a380. and yet the crisis has developed in airbus, due to a lack of governance leading, as we know, to the proposal of the "power 8" economy and restructuring plan. it is up to airbus' management to learn from the industrial management errors that led to the delayed delivery of the aircraft. it is up to the states to ensure the future of european aircraft manufacture. from the point of view of corporate governance, the shareholder states must review the two-headed organisation and renegotiate the shareholders' pact. they must also act in solidarity to maintain and develop european aircraft manufacturing. this means, for example, granting additional research funds, placing public contracts, granting repayable advances to meet the investment needs of industrial sites, or even increasing the share of the state in the capital. this is exactly the same logic that the us government has adopted with boeing. from an industrial point of view, it is now imperative that the 'power 8' plan be negotiated with the unions to take account of their strategic arguments. how can we accept the proposed imbalance in the plan between the distribution of activities between the french and german sites? how can we accept that toulouse, which is capable of producing 20 aircraft a month on its two production lines, is limited to 14 aircraft a month in order to transfer the remaining a320 production to hamburg, where investment will have to be made in a new line? how can we accept the consequences for employment at suppliers and subcontractors and the economic consequences for the regions? how can we accept the loss of know-how and expertise of the sites if their activities are outsourced? how can we be willing to entrust innovation and development to others? with a rich order book of 2,589 aircraft, its payload is guaranteed for several years. airbus should be able to withstand the crisis thanks to the quality of the aircraft produced. in reality, there is only one objective: to promote the european airbus project, which is focused on employment, innovation and excellence in the eyes of the whole world, built by men and women in europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, airbus is a crisis, but a crisis that has been announced. i've been ringing the alarm bells in toulouse for years, to no avail, when i live right next to airbus; i have been warning for years about elected officials who have deserted their managerial role to worship the iconic a380 and are now part of the chorus of mourners pouring out a balance sheet that is the fruit of their own actions. i've been warning for years about leaders who are out of touch with reality. remember mr forgeat, the man who left with suitcases full of millions of euros and who had no doubts about prices and deadlines. i have been warning the commission for years, commissioner, and it has never helped me with the alternatives i proposed, including the airship transport of airbus wings. today, in the face of this industrial crisis, there is still, and above all, a human disaster for the workers of airbus and for the subcontractors. the european union has a vocation for aviation, and there is no question of allowing the us military-industrial complex, via boeing, to control the airspace. what are the five conditions for the jump? one, to put the airplane product back where it belongs and not above industrial logic and not above environmental laws. two, recapitalize airbus with public money. thirdly, restructuring its operations, breaking the franco-german intergovernmental blockages which, here as at airbus, paralyse everything. four, streamline the industrial world by stopping the dispersal of the manufacture of a single aircraft to dozens of places. five, finally, diversify its production because avionics is a fragile and high-risk sector. other means of transport and other energy-producing elements can be produced. airbus is rich, mr president, very rich, but only because of the talent of its employees. so, please, let's not squander this wealth.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, airbus, the advanced industry which was supposed to make us swallow the sacrifice of our steel industry, accept the disappearance of tens of thousands of jobs in the textile industry, is now in turmoil and is preparing to sacrifice employees and subcontractors. a very high figure for a company with a six-year order book and a cash balance of 4 billion euros. airbus which could look to the future with confidence if it were not being eaten up by the financial cancer of liberalism. yes, ladies and gentlemen, development and employment are not compatible with a policy of a strong euro and, above all, with the greed for dividends of private shareholders who curb the necessary human and material investments, who listen to financiers rather than to the expertise of employees. by destroying 10 000 jobs and dividing the number of subcontractors by six, the power 8 plan actually weakens the very thing that makes airbus rich: the know-how of its employees and the cooperative network of subcontracting companies. the fact that airbus has become a successful company thanks to cooperation is a reality that 'power 8' will destroy by organising competition between employees, industrial sites and nationalities, which the employees rightly refuse. because it does not meet the company's current and future needs, "power 8" must be withdrawn. to enable the company to overcome its difficulties, it is necessary to return to majority public ownership and financing. only states are capable of undertaking aeronautical projects of this magnitude. the commission must also defend resolutely before the wto the system of repayable advances, which alone can finance the a350 and the nsr, just as it must intervene with the eib to ensure that the company benefits from low-interest loans. if our aviation industry is to have a future, it is urgently necessary to create a european fund for research, employment and training. within ten years, 30% of eads's workforce will retire; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. from the composite materials revolution to the end of oil, the aerospace industry is facing immense challenges, and it is our duty to help it meet them. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, the eads case is emblematic of the blunders, in our view, in the merger design of europe. it is astonishing that some people are making fun of it by talking about the bankruptcy of the europe of cooperatives proposed by the sovereignists, when, since airbus was absorbed by eads, we have abandoned the logic of cooperatives which had made the first airbus models successful, in favour of the fusion design, which, after a great deal of privatisation and mergers, finally mergers, created an eads company, one of the first results of which is to endanger the airbus programme and, with it, the many jobs it provided, particularly in france. france was a good girl, moreover, in agreeing to share with its german partner, on the one hand, its know-how acquired for a very long time, one could say since the beginning of aviation, and on the other hand, the many investments it has made in the field, thus allowing europe not to leave the monopoly in aeronautics to the two giant empires, boeing for the united states, tupolev for russia. it should also be noted that germany did not share its preeminence in the field of machine tools, but this cooperation had produced happy results until the dominant ideology, which was not so much that of liberalism as that of free trade, led to the privatization, especially in france, of the most beautiful industrial flowers, and in particular the aerospace industry, for the benefit of english-speaking companies, whose headquarters were in the netherlands and which were subject to dutch law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the community's energy policy.
mr president, i would first of all like to express my support for all the employees of airbus and all the employees of the subcontracting sector in the face of the announced redundancies. they are now paying for the mistakes of management and management and the mistakes of disengaged shareholders who have made a financial logic prevail at the expense of an industrial logic. but the solidarity of the employees at european level will be the driving force behind the revision of the restructuring plan. this case also shows the shortcomings of the social dialogue in europe with a total absence of employee representatives in the decision-making structures. europe is not to blame for this situation, but because airbus is a jewel and a symbol of european and world industry, european responses are expected. yes to public recapitalisation of companies, yes to repayable advances, yes to research and development credits, yes to taking account of the difficulties posed by the euro/dollar parity, yes to a reform of corporate governance, yes to a reform of shareholder pacts. the eib must be a tool for intervention. the globalisation adjustment fund has to serve us. the future of the company is now assured by the competence of the employees. let us ensure it by our commitment. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank our colleagues barón crespo and guardans cambó for taking the initiative in this oral question to the commission. the issue of our trade defence instruments is a key issue, not only in ensuring effective protection of european producers against unfair forms of competition, but also in the wider debate on the place of the european union in a globalised economy and the rules it wishes to promote to regulate it. in this respect, even though the european union has always defended the multilateral wto system, it seems surprising to say the least that the commission is launching such a public consultation and is considering potentially significant reform of our defence instruments, when the wto negotiations on anti-dumping, anti-subsidy and safeguard measures have not yet been concluded and their outcome will have an impact on how these instruments will be used. i would remind the commission that it itself commissioned a study on the evaluation of european trade defence instruments and that it concluded that the status quo is both the most reasonable and the most adequate solution to address the concerns of all parties. the study also supports the view that there is clearly no urgent need at present to review or alter existing community trade defence instruments. i would therefore like to know what concrete changes the commission is planning and how parliament will be involved at all stages of this process. i therefore call on the commission to take these various elements into account, as well as the opinion of the members and the results of the public consultation it has launched for the drafting of its future proposals, in the context of the forthcoming discussions in the council.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for initiating the debate on the union's trade defence instruments. let me congratulate my colleague, ignasi guardans cambó, on giving us the opportunity to discuss this today. what strikes me in the commission's questionnaire, or more generally in its overall thinking on trade policy, is the absence of any mention of the question of exchange rates between the euro and the currencies of our main trading partners. mr mandelson, how can you effectively defend the commercial interests of the european union with such a relationship between the euro and the dollar, the euro and the yuan and the euro and the yen? so, speaking of an industry which is now in the forefront of the scene with social plans, job cuts, threats of outsourcing or offshoring, that is to say aeronautics, a 10 cent change in the exchange rate between the euro and the dollar is equivalent to a loss or gain of one billion euros in airbus' profit. is this not the first of the dumping, the competitive devaluation of our competitors? as a result, it has become preferable for airbus, the jewel of european industry, to produce some of its aircraft outside the eurozone in order to compete with boeing. thank you for the gift! i encourage you, mr mandelson, to turn to the european central bank and to make it responsible today not just when the euro depreciates but also when it appreciates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the european commission has adopted a green paper to launch a public consultation on the application of the eu's trade defence instruments (tdi) in a changing global economy. this public consultation should pave the way for commission proposals to reform its trade defence instruments (anti-dumping, anti-subsidy and safeguard clauses). however, this proposed reform must be considered with caution. the european union must not act unilaterally and hastily, because any revision of its instruments cannot take place outside the legal framework of the ongoing negotiations on the multilateral disciplines concerning the idcs within the doha cycle. in addition to the need to be in line with the wto calendar, the european commission must also take into account that trade liberalization makes the idcs indispensable. the idcs are characterized by their moderate use and are in no way the safeguards of liberalism or the weapons of protectionism. they are effective regulators in restoring the conditions for fair competition in international trade markets and limiting the negative consequences of illegal practices on community industry, growth and employment in europe.
mr president, the issue of the missing persons in cyprus illustrates more than any other the human tragedy that took place on the island more than thirty years ago. it affects both greek and turkish cypriots and not only the victims of these disappearances but also, even today, the many families of the disappeared. as coordinator of the high level contact group for relations with the turkish cypriot community in the north of the island, i can testify to the sensitivity of this issue in the minds and its widely perceptible effects on the ground. i am planning to raise this subject, among other things, at the conference of presidents when we present our written report tomorrow morning. the issue of missing persons in cyprus is part of this shared past that both communities are now trying to understand and overcome. on this difficult and sensitive issue, however, there is a joint project which symbolises the will on the part of both communities to build a common future. this project is the committee for missing persons. the committee, which is carrying out crucial humanitarian work for the benefit of both communities by tracing the trail of some 2,000 people still missing, is placed under the auspices of the united nations. i can only welcome the interest of my colleagues in the question of the missing persons in cyprus. i share the view that political support at the highest level is an indispensable ingredient for the success of this undertaking. the work on the issue of missing persons must be interpreted first and foremost as humanitarian work, as the european parliament has always stressed. the enterprise must be based on the goodwill of both communities and be carried out jointly. it must, of course, be equipped with adequate material, financial and human resources. the committee has encountered many obstacles since its inception, but today it has entered a new phase and has taken concrete and useful steps. it is in this context that i would like to welcome and encourage the efforts being made on both sides of the green line to open new crossing points, particularly at ledra street in the historic heart of nicosia. the committee on missing persons is therefore not just a symbol, it is an instrument for dialogue between the two communities and therefore an essential contribution to a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus question.
mr schlyter, that is a very important point and it will be taken into account. we'll check all of this and take the necessary action.
the agenda calls for the report by mr francesco musotto, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on island, natural and economic constraints in the context of regional policy (2006/2106 (ini)) (a6-0044/2007).
your speech reminded us of something important: we are always on someone's periphery. the problem of centrality is not easy to define.
madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of article 158 of the treaty and the declaration on island regions annexed to it, the european union takes account of the handicaps and constraints faced by these regions by adopting specific measures to promote the integration of the european islands into the internal market. but francesco musotto, whom i thank for supporting my amendments in the committee on regional development, is now quite right to ask the european commission about the actual implementation of these provisions. i would like to start by saying that the concepts of ultraperiphery and insularity are quite different, whatever the links of proximity and solidarity which unite them, since the outermost regions are characterized by their remoteness from the european continent and their belonging to a geographical area which is composed, in the vast majority, of acp countries. insularity is both a geographical and cultural asset which represents a potential to be exploited in an appropriate development strategy, but also a permanent handicap which adds an additional difficulty to the competitiveness of these regions. the principle of territorial cohesion, reinforced in the regulations on the structural funds for the period 2007-2013, must aim at the polycentric integration of the territory of the union in such a way as to allow equal opportunities for all regions and their population. and beyond the measures you have mentioned, madam commissioner, i ask the commission to take greater account of the possibility offered by the treaty of modulating community policies which are likely to have a negative impact on the economic and social development of these regions, in order to deal concretely with the major problems specifically affecting each region or group of island regions. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate ourselves on the fact that this type of debate is taking place at a suitable time and not at 11 p.m. as is too often the case, mr president.
i am also glad of this because i have always thought that this is an important issue and deserves to be addressed by the european union, including in the treaties. i used to be very attached to it.
the rapporteur. mr president, i have taken the initiative of this report because i am convinced that, at a time of reform of european aid, it is essential to give local authorities a central political role in development cooperation. this is an important year: in 2007, 50 percent of the world's population lives in cities, and this is obviously going to increase very quickly. local authorities are experts in all areas of local development, and the un has already recognised their central role in achieving the millennium development goals. however, in europe, our consultation ends with civil society organisations. i think that's not enough. while the involvement of civil society is necessary, particularly ngos working closely with local communities on the ground, local authorities have a specific added value. first, they are in most cases legitimately elected throughout the territory. this democratic legitimacy is an asset to enable us to advance local democracy and good governance on the ground. secondly, they have expertise in the management of public services, such as water, health, education, urban planning, waste management, environment, etc. finally, they have a territorial approach. they are familiar with the local development problems specific to each region and each community. their active involvement in european development policy would allow aid to be better distributed throughout the territory and better targeted to the specific needs of each area, whether rural, urban, maritime, mountainous, desert or other. in the light of this, my report sets out two major challenges for the future of european cooperation. i didn't come up with my strategy on my own. i spent more than four months consulting the largest international and european local authority organisations to gather their analysis. my report is in fact the fruit of these reflections. the first challenge is that we believe that local authorities must become a full-fledged political partner of the european union alongside central governments and civil society organisations. i mean by partnership the development of a structured political dialogue between the european commission and local authority associations. this dialogue must be active, both here in brussels and on the ground in the developing countries. in brussels we want the commission to set up a dialogue platform like concord, the european confederation of emergency and development ngos. in developing countries, in line with the new development instrument and the revised cotonou agreement, local governments should be involved at every stage of the development strategy, starting from the preparation of country-specific policy documents. the second challenge is that this report presents the european commission with a number of financial proposals. firstly, we believe that decentralisation should be a priority for the union and therefore that it should be a sector of financial concentration of eu aid. in many countries, decentralisation is becoming more and more profound. local authorities have more and more powers without the financial capacity to fulfil this new role. secondly, we propose that part of the budgetary support should go directly to these local authorities. indeed, our recent debate on budgetary aid has shown how problematic it can be in countries where the risks of corruption are high. decentralising budgetary support would make it possible, on the one hand, to distribute it better throughout the territory, but also to avoid concentrating it all in the same hands and thus to ensure better management of european funds. finally, we believe that the involvement of these local authorities and non-state actors is necessary if european aid is to meet the real needs of the disadvantaged. we therefore call for an increase in the budget for the thematic programme, non-state actors and local authorities. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to stress what i consider to be the main issue in our debate. our cooperation policy does not sufficiently take into account the territorial dimension of development, and as kofi annan said at the millennium summit, if the millennium goals are global, it is at the local level that we can provide the solutions. the responses are local and specific, depending on the territory. if we do not take this into account, our aid may remain concentrated in the hands of a central government and not be distributed throughout the country. the former president of benin, mr soglo, recently told me that he thought, when he was president, that aid was distributed equally across the country, but he realised, now that he is the elected mayor of cotonou, that this was not the case. i am glad that the new development instrument recognises the need to involve local governments in political dialogue. it now remains to translate this commitment into action and equip them for their new responsibilities.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr schapira for the preparation of this report, which should be the first step in a very significant development of our development policies. in other words, i am convinced that with this text we will be able to become really more efficient. for what is the use of having generous, often general, objectives, what is the use of having substantial financial means if one does not achieve effective and efficient results? local authorities, and this is very well explained in the report by our colleague, are the operational link which can, on the ground, provide concrete answers to the problems of the citizens of these countries: problems of drinking water, health, education, public transport and social problems. among these problems, which unfortunately are many, health problems should be the most important. in the field, local authorities are best placed to look for solutions. do they have the means to provide the right answers to these various problems? rarely, because they lack either the financial means, the experience or the means to implement it. i am convinced that this text will enable us to provide the necessary financial resources and the necessary intellectual engineering. and i hope that the good practice processes that we have set up at european level with urban will be made available to all local actors. in the face of this great challenge, i also believe that the experience - which is growing - that we have acquired in the field of the structural funds, and particularly in the cities, will be a great asset. i would also like to say, as the coordinator of my group in the committee on regional development and chairman of the urban intergroup, that although 80% of the population of the european union lives in cities, urban population growth is phenomenal in all these developing countries and only local actors can really provide the right answers at local level. these good responses will be the result of new governance: the mayors of these municipalities, in particular, will have to be both operational in terms of power - the application of their legal powers - but also operational as an animator for all these issues of waste, water, health, etc., and this is where the support we will be able to provide will allow them, at the same time, to be operational thanks to their legal powers and to play fully their role as animator. commissioner, i hope that, together with our colleagues and those of the european commission, the various dgs concerned will be fully involved in the success of this operation. our countries are waiting for us to do so. we have the means to grant their wishes. the concrete results must be in line with their expectations. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to join in congratulating our colleague mr schapira on his excellent report. in this report, above all, he stresses the essential role that local authorities must play in development because of their proximity and their capacity for dialogue with local populations, and also because of their knowledge of the terrain. around the world, one can see that the region, whatever name is given to it, province, governorate, department, in short, the first sub-state level is being recognized as a relevant level of spatial planning and development. in many other countries, urban units are themselves organised into regions. the regions are therefore already essential partners. it should be noted, for example, that 35 million euros are given each year by french regions to french-speaking regions of the world. this is why last week in marseille a world organization of regions was created. in other words, twelve global networks bringing together regions from the five continents, irrespective of their qualities, whether francophone, peripheral, maritime or other, are being organized into a network, the forum of networks of regions of the world. they expect the european union, commissioner, to be able to access direct international financing, to be able to participate in the establishment of integrated national programmes and the european development fund, and to be entitled to programmes of their own.
in writing. it is clear that a genuine policy of cooperation with the southern and eastern mediterranean is needed to stem the flow of migrants that europe has long been unable to accommodate. it is also clear that a reasonable trade policy can be mutually beneficial on both sides of the mediterranean. but that is not what mr arif's report proposes, which is nothing more or less than the extension to north africa and part of the middle east of the european union, of its operations and policies: integrated agricultural policy, free movement of persons and goods, freedom to provide services, to name but a few areas. what's the point? we don't know for sure, because a study cited by mr arif himself predicts negative social and environmental impacts in the short and medium term. it is therefore purely out of free trade ideology, and not in the interests of the union countries, or even of the mediterranean countries, that parliament is supporting this project.
in writing. mr voggenhuber's report seeks to make all european legislation subject to the charter of fundamental rights, which is a veritable ideological catch-all, and thus to make the charter binding. that is to say, to ignore the popular rejection of the european constitution, of which the charter was part ii, and to impose a legal constraint which was not adopted by the peoples or their parliaments! and it will have three effects. legitimate the intervention of the luxembourg court in areas which are forbidden to it by the treaties themselves, such as police and judicial cooperation, which is no small paradox. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. how can we change, if not completely marginally, legislation implementing a 'fundamental right'? this text is very worrying: in the name of human rights, it is succeeding in organizing the violation of democracy, the treaties and the rights of the european parliament itself!
in writing. the european parliament has a very particular and partisan approach to the definition of fundamental rights. they are used to fight against individuals whom he considers undesirable, political opponents, or embarrassing governments that are not politically correct. curiously, they are never mentioned in defence of the rights of political minorities in his assembly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in this area, the great principles of freedom of expression and equality are completely disregarded. the european parliament puts into practice the famous formula: 'do as i say, not as i do'. the european political caste is ready to do anything to impose its vision of europe, and to do so against the will of the people if necessary. the european parliament has been working hard to get the european constitution re-introduced in pieces, even though it was rejected in referendums in france and the netherlands. similarly, while the charter of fundamental rights has no binding legal value, the text proposed here is intended to make it an indispensable, or worse, a mandatory reference text for the european courts. far from being innocent, this report is dangerous to the freedoms and rights of peoples.
in writing. the european union is currently experiencing an institutional crisis. but by voting, the french people have expressed their desire for european union, but a europe that is not limited to the single market. the citizens want a europe which also confers social rights. this proposal for a methodology for the effective implementation of the european charter of fundamental rights in the commission's legislative proposals, and in particular the systematic and rigorous verification of compliance with all the fundamental rights concerned when drawing up any legislative proposal, should help to meet this desire of europe. it seems to me therefore essential to find a way of not calling into question the legally binding nature of the european charter of fundamental rights so that it can have all the weight that european citizens want it to have.
in writing. in the globalization of finance, agriculture, migration and the market, the nations of europe must have an alliance of civilization with the nations of central america. our farmers, for example, are facing problems similar to those of the peasants in mexico or the latin smes, facing the confiscation of their intellectual property, their know-how and, above all, facing their gradual elimination by a global trading system which puts our banana producers in the french antilles or the canary islands in competition with those in honduras or nicaragua, for the sole benefit of multinationals like chiquita. the need for this alliance of civilisation between europe and latin america is even more pronounced in the face of global migration. thus, if, since the 1970s, french automobile, steel and construction manufacturers had turned to latin american labour, instead of the workforce of the aurès, anatolia or kabylia, french society would have avoided the tensions of today and public budgets would have avoided heavy burdens. latin america, in alliance with europe, would find the necessary allies in international and commercial forums to defend a conception of the management of human societies and economies different from the anglo-saxon ideology of the market.
in writing. the existence of this report on the integration of the specific features and handicaps of the island regions of the european union into regional policies is in itself a demonstration that these features, if not totally hidden for years, are not being properly addressed. this is probably due to the very nature of the european union, which is a unifying and leveling-up institution. i also regret that the emphasis is not placed on the unbearable burdens that the application, or the threat of application, of european common law, particularly in the field of taxation and competition, represents for these areas. in france, the grant of the sea, the reduced vat or excise rates applicable to corsica or the overseas departments are periodically called into question and must be periodically renegotiated in brussels by the government. finally, i regret that the submersion of some european islands by the influx of illegal immigrants is treated in this report in a local and quasi-clinical manner, when this is an extremely serious problem. the abolition of internal borders and the proselytizing of immigrants in the eu are, it should be stressed, one of the major causes of this problem.
member of the commission. sadly, mr president, guatemala is once again on our agenda following the horrendous murder of three el salvador members of the central american parliament and their driver. the assassination in prison of the four police officers suspected of the crime provided an extraordinary example of the country’s institutional weakness. despite genuine efforts in the last three years to reinforce the rule of law, the government has had to recognise that insecurity and impunity were deeply rooted in guatemala. the commission, together with the member states, has called for a rapid and independent investigation into this very serious affair. we have pressed for decisive action to strengthen the judiciary and security-related institutions. furthermore, the commission has reiterated the importance of establishing an international commission against impunity in guatemala. this project has been in discussion for too many years. the government’s efforts in this respect are to be commended. however, the project is still to be validated by the constitutional court before it can be endorsed by congress. the commission therefore welcomes the fact that this debate is on the agenda today. the european parliament is very well placed to press its peers in guatemala to support the much needed reforms. the visit by my colleague commissioner ferrero-waldner to guatemala in april will be an additional opportunity for such messages to be shared with the government. the european commission will continue to stand by the people of guatemala as it has done since the signing of a peace accord 10 years ago. however, for our partnership to be fully effective, the country must take decisive steps for an all-inclusive long-term security policy, addressing all the aspects involved. it should be supported by adequate national resources for the funding of the government institutions and programmes. it is now more important than ever that a consensual political commitment is made to a courageous fiscal pact, including tax increases. it is hoped that the recent events will mark a turning point in the security debate in guatemala. as part of its new strategic framework for 2007-2013, the commission will be ready to offer support for security-related issues as part of a ‘social cohesion and human security’ focal sector. finally, the commission will continue, together with eu member states, to engage in eu demarches with the local authorities. the recent ratification by the guatemala congress of the 2003 eu-central america political dialogue and cooperation agreement, as well as the perspective of an association agreement between our two regions, will allow intensified dialogue which will undoubtedly include security-related issues.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on cambodia.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission has been closely following the situation relating to trade unions in cambodia. the murder of mr hy vuthy, who was shot dead in the early hours of 24 february while going home after a night shift in a textile factory, is the latest in a very disturbing series of attacks on trade unionists in that country. mr hy vuthy is the third official of the free trade union of workers of the kingdom of cambodia to be killed in three years. this campaign of intimidation against trade unionists is aggravated by a weak police force and judiciary, local power struggles, political interference in the judiciary, corruption and impunity. furthermore, the mix of fierce competition for membership, the low level of professionalism, political influence and a low degree of control over members have made for a tense atmosphere in some of the garment-manufacturing establishments. the commission recently raised this issue with the cambodian authorities to ask for a thorough inquiry into this murder and that appropriate and effective action be taken to follow up the results of the inquiry and bring to justice those responsible. the eu also called on the cambodian government, as a party to all major international labour organisation conventions, to abide by the commitments it has taken. the commission has also raised, and will continue to raise, the issue of the khmer rouge tribunal, and has urged the parties concerned to come to an agreement on its rules of procedure so that the trials can get under way as soon as possible. the commission is providing eur 1 million towards the costs of the tribunal. a successful khmer rouge tribunal will contribute significantly towards eliminating the climate of impunity in cambodia. as recommended by parliament in a previous resolution on cambodia, the commission has recently established a working party to deal with matters relating to cooperation in the areas of institution-building, administrative reform, legal and judicial reform, governance and human rights in order to engage constructively the cambodian authorities on these issues. i would like to assure this house that the commission, through its delegation in phnom penh and together with the missions of eu member states in cambodia, will continue to monitor the situation very closely. the international community – especially the eu – which had such a vital role in the establishment of the new cambodia, should ensure that human rights are upheld in that country.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on five motions for resolutions on nigeria.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission has been following the evolution of the same-sex marriage (prohibition) act submitted early last year to the nigerian federal executive council. the commission shares the deep concern already expressed by international organisations, including the un, through the secretary-general’s special representative on human rights defenders, concerning the heightened level of discrimination, violation of individual rights and restriction of the right of free association that this bill would introduce, if approved. the commission equally shares the analysis by nigerian and international human rights associations concerning the potential repercussions on persons engaging, or being suspected of engaging, in same-sex relationships. the same is true for human rights defenders advocating against the negative human rights implications of this homophobic bill. the bill would put them at greater risk of arbitrary arrest, detention, torture and ill-treatment. it would also restrict and silence the action of local human rights organisations. the bill reinforces the excessively severe provisions already in place. nigeria’s criminal code punishes consensual homosexual conduct with up to 14 years’ imprisonment, while the shariah penal code adopted in 11 states in northern nigeria lays down the death penalty for livat [‘sodomy’]. the bill would also infringe a number of international human rights laws and treaties that nigeria ceded to and ratified, possibly its own constitution and key articles of the cotonou agreement. in view of the above and of the conclusions on eu relations with nigeria adopted by the general affairs and external relations council in 2003, the commission would like to confirm its readiness to contribute to the implementation of the resolution this house is about to adopt. the commission is prepared to actively participate, along with the member states, in the political dialogue foreseen under article 8 of the cotonou agreement. this political dialogue will fully address the specific issue concerning the same-sex marriage bill as well as the essential elements regarding human rights, democratic principles, the rule of law and good governance listed in article 9 of the cotonou agreement. finally, the commission encourages the european parliament to follow up last year’s visit by its former president, mr josep borrell fontelles, to the nigerian parliament, with a view to establishing a regular dialogue between the two parliaments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate, that is to say in a moment.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
is there any objection to the consideration of these oral amendments? (the oral amendments were accepted)
voting time is closed.
i would remind you that there are no explanations of vote on the emergency.
we have now finished with the explanations of vote. before we adjourn, i have a few more communications to make.
it is very kind of you, mr president, to spare me this tedious task, but unfortunately our rules are formal: i have to read you the full list of names. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
it's your absolute right, but you had to file a request by the deadline, so i can't do it.
we have exhausted our agenda and i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 5.05 p.m.)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we have just commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the treaty of rome. fifty years is two generations. it's not much in the eyes of history, but it's already a very old age in the eyes of young people. in recent days, it has been said that the benefits of european integration that are most frequently mentioned - peace, stability, relative prosperity, social model - are no longer relevant for the new generations, because they are their daily lot. to that i will answer two things. firstly, young people must be aware of how fortunate they are that such realities have become evident. secondly, we must put this perspective into perspective, because the instability of the world today - the attacks of 11 september in new york, 11 march in madrid, and 7 june in london, to name just a few - shows each of us, of all ages, that living in peace, security and with certain means is not the lot of everyone on this earth, even in our own countries. i also have a very moving thought for our 15 british soldiers who are prisoners. peace and security, that's what we work for every day. the debate we will have tomorrow morning with mr solana will be a further illustration of this. if, a few days before my 60th birthday, i were to try to put myself in the shoes of a young european, perhaps these would be some of the advantages i would see in the european adventure. the ease of learning foreign languages, the possibility of participating in school exchanges, internships, sports tournaments, cultural events, crossing virtual borders and using a common currency, is not insignificant. living in a village or a town which is twinned with another, benefiting from programmes sponsored by the european union, benefiting directly or indirectly from the economic growth generated by the union of our countries, is not insignificant. being a citizen of states that offer a more united front to our partners and competitors in the world, of states that are the leading donors of humanitarian aid, that ensure democratic elections in the world, or that send peacekeepers to a large number of conflict zones, all this is not neutral. i would like to mention the civilian crisis management mission that the european union will undertake in kosovo after the future status of the independent province of serbia has been established. this will be an unprecedented operation for our countries. yes, ladies and gentlemen, all this is positive, satisfactory and honourable, for young people too, and i would say especially for them. europe is certainly not a panacea and does not solve all our problems, far from it, and no one has ever claimed that. but the union can, better than our individual states, help to solve the difficulties, to face the new challenges, to reorient priorities. whether we like it or not, globalization is the reality we are immersed in. the negative aspects of this are often denounced, sometimes rightly, sometimes wrongly. but globalization also brings certain benefits: ease of communication, the proliferation of information, the opening up of cultures, to name a few. in this globalisation, europe has a role to play, values to defend, a model of society to promote. europe is not condemned to remain silent, to accept everything without saying anything or to go through a compression roller. if we want, we can influence the course of history, as we have done for the last fifty years. madam president-in-office of the council, i will not miss this opportunity to congratulate you and, above all, to thank you, first of all because by coming to the european parliament three times in three months you are showing the respect you have for the work of the members of the european parliament. in this way, you are setting an example that i am sure your successors will follow. secondly, because by organising, as we know, with great success a great european celebration in berlin on 25 march, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the treaty, you have proved that europe is not just about speeches and laws, but can also be about emotion, joy and conviviality. and finally, because the berlin declaration, adopted by the european institutions, is a clear and strong text, a text which puts europe back on its feet and gives us a new perspective with the proposal to find a solution to the institutional question by the next elections in 2009. madam president, your determined public action, combined with your personal modesty and your sense of human contact, is a credit to europe and a way forward. you have organised two european councils under your presidency. each of them has been a success, and all agree that it has. europe has shown the way on the crucial energy and climate issue, europe has decided to equip itself with the institutional tools to face the great challenges and make its voice heard, this is how europe must function and act, this is how our citizens, and in particular the younger generations, will take ownership of this project, which is more modern than ever. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the its group. mr president, fifty years ago the treaty of rome was concluded between countries with comparable levels of social protection, rich in diverse cultures but also in a common civilization. the principle of this treaty was community preference, guaranteeing our producers, and in particular farmers, prices above world prices. this treaty has been totally misused. community preference has given way to the invasion of non-european productions. deindustrialisation is costing europe hundreds of millions of jobs. agriculture and services are suspended. by recklessly opening up its borders, the union has created unemployment, precariousness and poverty. the berlin declaration does not even mention these difficulties. it is a monument of cynical self-satisfaction, totally cut off from reality and people. it gives this europe no content, neither material nor spiritual. as pope benedict xvi noted, it has even succeeded in silencing europe's christian roots. would that require the agreement of a christian-democratic president of parliament and a christian-democratic president of the council? this union is no more democratic. the international institution is drifting into a superstate, a state rejected by public opinion, which throws it out the door and you want to bring it in through the window. none of this is in keeping with the true genius of europe. we will not condone such deviations.
mr president, madam president, the statement reminded me of some europeans. schuman, because you used his method, a statement made in the utmost secrecy. like, it's sometimes fertile. and then i thought of him because, although of french father, he was born german because of the war. his mother was from luxembourg. french was only his third language before he became president of the council. i also thought about de gasperi. he was born austrian. he was an austrian deputy, during the austro-hungarian empire, before becoming an italian deputy. these two men, they're border men. europe is made by the men of the frontier, because the frontier is the scar of history and we are here to never reopen it. then i thought of you three. the peace pen is yours, mr president, because you are of my generation, you are from europe at peace, after europe on fire, with your personal wound. and you, madame chancellor, you are, to me, the french, the chancellor who comes from beyond the wall. a tourist trail today, a barrier in the past. and you, mr barroso, you are the president of freedom found, at 18, a little left-wing on the edges, but you have changed. looking at all three of you - i like that statement, and it's a birthday - i thought: they still have a flaw, they are not socialists. but i remembered what guy mollet, president of the socialist council, said in 1956: don't wait for europe to be socialist to do it! that's a hell of a job!
madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the berlin declaration is addressed to the peoples of the european union, so that they may take stock of the extraordinary success of our common work. it is a reminder of our european values and must be the foundation of a new imaginative impulse, beyond the solidarities which have brought together a number of common policies for half a century. we must be realistic, not hide from the difficulties we face and convince europeans that building an integrated europe that is strong in the world is not only essential but also an opportunity for each of our 27 countries and for all 500 million citizens of the union. to convince them, we must both bring concrete results, tangible proof of the union's added value, but also adopt a more optimistic attitude, as the chancellor has done. europeans are divided on the main directions of european policy. some feel that europe is taking a too liberal direction and is suffering from globalisation without protecting its people. others, on the contrary, feel that it does not go far enough in protectionism. the truth, as always, lies somewhere in between. our continent is one of the few poles of stability in an increasingly unpredictable world. our stories are rich in lessons and our cultures rich in diversity. they are a reference for many peoples. our economy is generally healthy, open to the world. we are working tirelessly for greater solidarity with the most disadvantaged and destabilised regions of the world. i would like to congratulate the president-in-office of the council on her efforts and on the results she has achieved. they demonstrate the concern it has to make progress in europe, to find a way out of the deadlock we have been experiencing for some months, and i would like to thank it warmly for this.
president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the debate was interesting. i had prepared one or two answers to some specific questions, but as the members who asked them are not here, i may perhaps leave those answers for another time. i would like to make a general reference to the question of substance and procedure. we need both. we need to solve the big problems that we have in front of us in europe and the problems of globalization, but we also need to have the best processes and the best institutions. i do not agree with those who try to focus the debate on one aspect only. if we want to solve the problems and if we want to have an answer to the great challenges we need to have more efficient, more democratic and more coherent institutions. we need to resolve the constitutional issue. whether or not we call the treaty 'constitutional', we need to resolve this issue and that is the appeal i want to make to all members, even those who are not as enthusiastic about the constitutional idea as others. i know that you share the desire to solve problems pragmatically. i hope that you will contribute and help all the governments of the european union to find a solution in terms of procedures and institutions, because if we want to deliver results, we need these institutions. as regards how to involve civil society and citizens in general in the debate on the institutional question, i would also like to say that we in the european commission have been active (i myself, before the berlin declaration was adopted, had meetings, together with vice-president margot walström, not only with the leadership of parliament but also with representatives of civil society) and i think that the proposal put forward today by chancellor angela merkel for the european parliament to organise a civil society hearing in may is a good idea. the commission wishes to join this initiative if this parliament carries out this proposal. we are ready to launch a debate on these issues together with parliament, while also respecting the negotiating space between governments, and i therefore want to support this suggestion by chancellor angela merkel. to conclude, i will continue in french to respond to mr poignant's very important remark. i should like to thank him because, with humour, he has raised a very important point: he has shown that one can have different positions on political and ideological matters while sharing the same european spirit. that's a lesson for all of us. i believe that our european project is exactly that, it places itself, to a large extent, above political and ideological differences. we can be more to the left, more to the right, more to the centre, but we need a coalition of the european spirit. it is a lesson for us all and i would like to thank you, mr poignant, as i thank those who, within the various political families, with nuances, of course, have this spirit, because it is only with this spirit - which i saw in berlin - that we can meet the great expectations of europe. as regards the spirit of solidarity, i would say, addressing in particular some members who come from political formations a little more cautious with regard to integration, that it must not be forgotten that solidarity plays both ways. do not forget that your country will probably need the solidarity of other countries one day. we must therefore all show a spirit of solidarity, understanding that it is only in this spirit that we can find a solution to the institutional questions, and above all to the major challenges facing europe.
in writing. as the french representative of the citizens of the union in the european parliament, my first words will be to express my gratitude and admiration to the president of the french republic, my friend jacques chirac, whose participation in berlin on 25 march 2007 was his last european summit as head of state and who has always acted with lucidity, competence and humanism for a strong and independent france within a strong and united europe. while i am disappointed that the members of the european parliament, who represent the peoples and citizens of europe, were not involved in the berlin declaration, i welcome the confirmation of the will to move forward in the construction of europe, the proclamation of our values and the fixing of the political timetable for the 2009 european elections for the resolution of the institutional file. i would like to congratulate the president of the union, angela merkel, chancellor of germany, my friend hans-gert pöttering, president of the european parliament, and josé manuel barroso, president of the european commission, on the work they have done.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has considered it necessary to discuss supervision among the european institutions and we wished to be able to do so in the presence of the council and the commission. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs we welcome the resumption of discussions and work in both the council and the commission on crisis management in financial markets. improving the efficiency of supervision and cooperation between supervisors is a necessity. nevertheless, if we are to succeed in the end, we believe that at this stage of development and profound transformation of the financial markets, the opening of an interinstitutional debate on this subject is probably the best way forward. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has developed its analysis of the state of the european financial system and the implications of financial consolidation in many papers, notably in the report by our colleague mr joseph muscat. in this report we support the establishment of a committee of experts to study not only the implications of consolidating financial markets and institutions, financial supervision, financial stability and crisis management, but also to come up with concrete ideas on the current structures which would be reported to parliament. the interinstitutional debate taking place today is intended to signal clearly the need to open or reopen the great debate on the future of the european supervisory architecture. it is essential for the competitiveness of the financial market itself and for the stability of the financial system in the european union. let me make a few observations at this point. the first is that the financial system in europe and the world has changed profoundly. every day we are witnessing the constant transformation of markets, the innovations that are taking place, which is reflected, among other things, in the rise of hedge funds or private equities. the continuing consolidation of financial markets has led to the emergence of major players operating on a totally transnational basis. mergers and acquisitions motivated by the search for competitiveness and efficiency have increased at national, european and global levels. they became an engine. as a result, the structure of markets, the way players operate in markets has changed dramatically. this transformation has brought new challenges and new stakes. secondly, the consolidation of financial supervision structures must go hand in hand with the consolidation of the markets themselves. but sometimes it seems to be a different rhythm. in this context, it is questionable whether the current supervisory system in the european union - supervisors under very different supervisory structures with very different competences, powers and responsibilities and acting on the basis of a national mandate - is capable of ensuring good supervision of large cross-border financial groups, whether it is sustainable and whether it does not endanger the financial stability of the european system itself. thirdly, the financial system of the european union has its own peculiarities. it is distinguished by its diversity and the richness of its operators: local actors, such as community banks, and cross-border, transatlantic and global actors. it requires a robust, effective and appropriate prudential framework to meet the challenges of regional integration, globalisation, innovation and centralisation of management, while ensuring the quality of prudential supervision and the soundness and stability of the system. fourthly, improving the supervisory arrangements is in the interest of all the players: first of all in the interest of the system itself and secondly in the interest of the market players who ask us to improve the supervisory arrangements in order to facilitate their activities on all markets. i am convinced that the end user will also be interested in an improvement of the system. my fifth and final comment concerns the transatlantic challenge of european regulatory excellence. in this respect, i think it is time to make some progress. in conclusion, and in the light of these observations, we as european legislators are faced with a major challenge: to provide europe with strong and effective supervisory structures capable of ensuring proper supervision of all financial actors, whether large crossborder groups or local banks, and also capable of making supervision an element of the competitiveness of the european model on a global scale. the question is, how? should we set up this committee of sages? or should we imagine that, on an interinstitutional basis, we may have the best capacity to make the european collective intelligence work? that is in any case the message that parliament is sending today in this debate, and i thank the council and the commission for agreeing to bring it here.
the seconds you saved are the ones you lent to mrs. gill.
i'm sorry, but we have to move on to the next item on the agenda. i would like to inform you, however, that all those who have asked to speak today will be given priority for the strasbourg session in april, on the understanding that they will have to register again, for the sake of formality. the presidency scheduled at that time will be informed and they will be placed at the top of the list of speakers.
mr. stoyanov, i'm interrupting you from your speech. i would like to know on the basis of which rule of procedure you are asking to speak and on what subject, because at the moment your speech is rather general.
i would remind you that article 145 states that a speaker who intervenes on a personal matter 'may not speak on the substance of the debate, but may only refute statements made during the debate which concern him personally, or opinions which have been put forward to him, or correct his own statements'. so if you will, avoid general speeches and come to the point that concerns you, since this is an intervention for a personal fact.
you don't have to agree or disagree, that's the rule.
it is not a dictatorship, on the contrary, it is a democracy. we have a policy and it must be respected. it is not the place for every member of parliament to make general statements about what he wants. mr. stoyanov, i understood you wanted to intervene on a personal matter. it's not, and i can't let you pursue it.
the agenda calls for the report by hélène aubert, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on organic production and labelling of organic products (com (2005) 0671 - c6-0032/2006 - 2005/0278 (cns)) (a6-0061/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome this opportunity to discuss our proposal for a new council regulation for organic production. i want to start by thanking the rapporteur, mrs aubert, and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for their efforts. the thorough work that they have been doing is a very valuable contribution to our discussions. with 160 000 organic farms and more than 6 million hectares of land in the european union, the turnover of organic products is estimated to have a value of between 13 and 14 billion euros. this tendency is on the increase, so it is indeed a very important sector. there is no doubt in my mind that this expanding sector has an essential role to play. it addresses a range of expectations on the part of the public and of consumers; expectations about food quality, care for the environment, animal welfare and opportunities for developing the countryside. it is also a sector with plenty of optimism and confidence about what the future has to bring, as i was able to see clearly during my recent visit to the biofach in nuremberg. but in order to develop and reach its full potential, the sector needs an appropriate regulatory framework, and this is actually what we are trying to achieve with our new regulation. it is therefore a very important legislative proposal, and i am pleased with the progress that we were able to make through our deliberations last year. in 2006 very intensive discussions were held on our proposal in the council and in parliament. as a result, some elements from the original proposal that proved to be very sensitive ones have now totally disappeared. this includes a prohibition on higher claims, the mutual recognition of private standards by inspection bodies, and the eu organic indication. parliament has also proposed a range of amendments in order to improve the wording of the objectives and principles of organic farming, on the indication of the origin of the products, on the explicit right to use national and private logos, on embedding of the control system in the official food and feed controls, and the reinforced guarantees on imports. these are amendments that improve the original proposal and i am therefore happy to take them on board. we have also managed to improve the emphasis of the regulation on soil fertility, soil life and soil management practices. the question of gmo and organic farming has generated a lot of debate. i have noted parliament’s wish that operators provide proof that they have taken all the necessary steps to avoid adventitious or technically unavoidable presence of gmos, and i could not agree more with that. so although these amendments present a reiteration of an existing requirement, i have decided to accept them because of the huge sensitivity of this issue. but let me also be completely clear: the threshold for adventitious presence of gmos is not, as some suggest, a de facto threshold for gmo tolerance. gmos and their derivatives remain strictly banned for use in organic production. although the commission and parliament agree on the fundamental aspects of the new regulation, there are certain issues where we have not managed to see eye to eye, and i would like to touch briefly on some of these. parliament is asking for more details, and it is clear that a lot of the detailed rules as we know them in the current regulation have been removed. but let us not forget that one of the main purposes of this proposal was to set out the basic rules more clearly and more logically. this, however, does not mean that the detailed rules that form the unique fabric of organic standards should disappear altogether. certainly not. but i believe that they are better placed in the implementing rules, and the content of these detailed rules will, as i confirmed to you earlier on, be very similar to the detailed rules that we have in the current regulation. on our wish to extend the scope to cover mass caterers, cosmetics, textiles and preserved fish, i would like to point out that we cannot take all steps in one go. we are substantially extending the scope now to wine and to aquaculture. the other sectors are still at a very early stage of the development, and i think that harmonising them could hamper their development. the current text actually provides for the possibility of looking at the issue again in 2011. linked to this, i have also noticed that you would like to see a double legal basis for this proposal. it is no secret that there is a wider discussion on the introduction of codecision for agricultural matters. this is an important issue and it is a discussion that i have clearly indicated that i welcome. but it is an issue that should be dealt with in a horizontal manner, at the proper level and in the proper context. i do not believe that it serves anyone to take an approach on a case-by-case basis. therefore i cannot accept a change to the legal basis for the new regulation on organic farming as you have proposed. finally, you propose that member states may maintain or introduce stricter national rules. that is not acceptable to me. the very purpose of this regulation is to bring about a solid harmonisation at a strict enough level, with a flexibility mechanism for exceptions. by harmonising the rules at a fairly high level, with flexibility, i think we are reaching the same end, but with a reduced risk of unequal treatment of operators in similar conditions. i am convinced that this is a way to foster a thriving internal market for organic production. i am sorry to have spoken at such length, but it is a very important issue that i wanted to address in detail.
the commission is free to speak as long as it wishes and as much as is necessary.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the situation of organic farming is rather paradoxical today. on the one hand, it is generating a growing demand because it is a mode of agriculture that creates jobs, preserves the environment, biodiversity and, ultimately, our health. on the other hand, organic farming still represents only a little over 1% of european agricultural production and a little over 3% of the useful agricultural area, which is a small amount. i think it is our responsibility to contribute to the development of organic farming in the european union. it may be a small issue in terms of quantity, but it is a huge issue in political and symbolic terms because organic farming is also a form of vanguard for a necessary reorientation of the common agricultural policy towards a much more sustainable agriculture. throughout 2006 we worked on a commission proposal which caused a lot of concern, a lot of protest and a certain amount of haste, since we were originally asked to give our opinion within two months on a proposal which was not really thorough. but i am happy to say that the work has been constructive and that there has been regular exchanges with both the commission and the council to improve the original proposal. what was the purpose of all this exchanges, all this discussion and back and forth, in the end, by the committee on agriculture of this parliament? you have recalled the essential elements. firstly, it wanted to extend the scope of this regulation to non-food products such as textiles and cosmetics, but also and above all to mass catering, because mass catering is a formidable lever for the development of organic agriculture in our countries. it would be a mistake not to use it. this is also why we want a dual legal basis - article 37 and article 95 - covering both the internal market and consumption. it seems that you have only praised our work, our contribution and, therefore, the fact that the european parliament is much more widely involved - not to mention codecision in general for agriculture, because that is another debate we have yet to have. it seems to me that if we want to continue this work, if we want members of the european parliament to really have a say in these famous decrees which will play a vital role in the application of this regulation, you should accept this double legal basis and we will continue this debate. secondly, you mentioned it, we asked for much more precise definitions of what is meant by control, certification, products authorized or not in organic farming practices, soil connection, animal condition, etc., on the basis of a text that was vague. and then you touched on the very sensitive issue of the absence of genetically modified organisms in organic farming, which must be total, like the absence of pesticides or synthetic chemicals. on the question of genetically modified organisms, we are very keen to confirm to consumers that organic farming does not contain any gmos, from seed to distribution. the current threshold of 0.9%, which is a threshold for exemption from labelling, creates confusion. we therefore believe that this issue should be reviewed in such a way that the detection threshold is chosen for both conventional and organic crops, and that all necessary measures are taken to avoid any contamination of organic crops by gmos, even accidental ones. you say that it is not possible to accept the stricter measures that the member states would take. it seems to us that the existing specifications, whether private or those of the member states, which are well known to consumers, should be allowed to continue. in any case, that is what we want and, if there is flexibility, harmonization must go upwards and not downwards, which we fear. you've given us a number of answers. i think this debate will continue, perhaps beyond tomorrow's vote. finally, i would like to conclude by saying that this regulation is not all there is to it and that it will not solve all the problems relating to organic farming. we also need much stronger support for organic farming than we have today in the framework of the common agricultural policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs marie-hélène aubert on the excellent work she has done since the beginning of her mandate, first on the european action plan for organic food and farming and then on this proposal for a regulation. the task was not easy because the proposal undermined the strong and credible identity of organic farming. we can be satisfied with the progress made in the committee on agriculture on several points: stricter controls on the use of plant protection products, veterinary treatments and national derogations; strengthened controls on certification, including on imported products; an extension of the scope of the regulation and the maintenance of the regulatory committees. i also support the dual legal basis which would make it possible to move to codecision. however, i remain very concerned about the presence of gmos, even accidentally, in organic products. the regulation states that a product cannot be labelled 'organically produced' if it contains gmos, but it does accept a 0.9% accidental contamination threshold for gmos, which is not acceptable. i therefore ask for your support for amendments nos 170 and 171 tabled by the pse group, which call for the presence of gmos in organic products to be limited exclusively and for the term not to be used.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the owninitiative report we are debating today deals with an area of crucial importance for the future of the union, namely its resources. to speak of the union's resources is to speak of its means of subsistence, but above all it is to speak of its means of undertaking and producing public policies. it is about the continuity of the european idea and the innovative policies that only europe can give us. the socialist group wants to achieve these two ambitious objectives: the continuation of the european project and political and economic innovation. the imperative for parliament is to show the member states that a europe of projects, a europe of sharing, of solidarity, is possible. this requires that we not be so focused on our national advantages. it is to adopt a responsible parliamentary proposal and hope that the council will move towards a transparent, fair and efficient system. the resources of the union are now in great need of simplification. this complex system has become incomprehensible to the european citizen and decision-maker. it's an unfair and inappropriate system. the work done in consultation with the national parliaments has convinced us that the introduction of a new budgetary order for resources will be long and that it should be done in two stages. at present, the community budget negotiations are reduced to a confrontation of national egoisms. it is the consecration of a wrong principle: that of fair return, which undermines european solidarity and runs counter to our project. this is the poison of community europe. the very notion of net balance must be abolished. the rapporteur, thanks to the amendments of the committee on budgets, has emphasized the importance of abolishing, once and for all, all forms of compensation and discount mechanisms. it is therefore logical to abolish the vat resource provisionally, because the vat resource in its present form is a legitimation of all cases of rebates. we also confirm the options in the böge report on the financial perspective. it is essential to link this revenue reform to the expenditure reform. in this context, co-financing of the cap may be considered, but without renationalisation. the first step is to denounce an unfair system and then to provide europe with resources built on sound and fair foundations. and only in the second stage does alain lamassoure propose the creation of a tax which could take various forms while preserving the fiscal sovereignty of the member states. we support the idea of a unified tax, for example, the tax on corporate profits or the ecotax, as jacques delors proposed in 1991, or a tax on financial transactions, a tax on foreign exchange transactions. in this report we do not limit the range of possibilities. we are preparing the second phase of our work. so we're taking notice of a devious system and we're taking it down. with the exception of customs duties and certain agricultural taxes, other revenue is not own resources. in conclusion, to provide the union with real resources is to increase europe's autonomy in terms of resources so that it is no longer subject to the blocking power of a state. it also means restoring budgetary coherence. the person who decides on expenditure must be responsible for revenue to the public. and it is finally to get out of the logic of returns that for years has undermined all our european projects, destroying the very idea of solidarity, which is the foundation of europe, of which we are celebrating its 50th anniversary.
for the greens/efa group madam president, there were a lot of people in this chamber earlier, when we were discussing the berlin declaration. but tonight, in a much more empty chamber, we shall, yes or no, give substance to this declaration, because if we believe we are making europe without giving ourselves the means, we shall not get very far. the budgetary resources have so far been used to support the wheels of six countries, but in 27 countries they have been completely worn out. the great merit of alain lamassoure's report is that it denounces it in a very clear way. financing, when it's nationalized to the point where every time you put in a euro, you wrap it in a national flag and try to get back more than you give, doesn't work. however, this denunciation is the aspect of the report that pleases the green group. but there are things we like a lot less. we do not understand why we are limiting ourselves when this is an own-initiative report. it is true that we would have liked to have found the word 'european tax'. i am sure that we are in the majority in this house in saying that we must dare to use this word to replace this european tax which does not say its name: a pinch of vat here, a small contribution there. i think it was a good idea to put it in the report. and why talk about a transitional period when we know very well what we have to do? the desire to please and reassure each other, however much it may be, can drain the relationship of all its strength, even though the foundations were excellent. the last point, which is very important for our group, is why should we self-mutilate before the race starts by specifying the 1.24% mark? what is this sacred cow before which parliament, which has always denounced it, should bow? we know - and we will debate this next year, in 2008 - that this bar prevents european policies from being supported by real means. let's compare what our neighbors are doing. in the united states, they pool 20 percent of their gdp. it is therefore clear that the lamassoure report has unfortunately had to give way here and there, to the point of limiting itself. our question is: how do we push alain lamassoure to move forward without knocking him down? the best answer we have given is abstention.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission shares parliament’s view that the current own-resources system is not optimal. the commission has repeatedly indicated its willingness to explore different options which could improve and simplify the current financing system. the commission takes note of the fact that the current report is a first basis on which parliament will pursue the examination of possible options in future, in close cooperation with the national parliaments, before adopting its final position. the commission will consider the outcome of any interparliamentary conference as a contribution in the context of the consultation process. the commission recalls that, as explicitly indicated in the declaration annexed to the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management from may 2006 – as i mentioned previously – its proposal will be put forward under its own responsibility.
, in writing. this report, which explores all possible avenues for a two-stage reform, provides a valuable synthesis of the working hypotheses on the reform of the union's own resources. the revenue and expenditure lines should be flattened, with an emphasis on economic, social and research and innovation policies, without denying the development opportunities made possible by the cap over the last 50 years. i hope that agreements based on fairness and solidarity between member states will break the rule of unanimity in tax matters. in view of the clear disproportionate nature of the contributions of the member states to the budgetary effort of the union, it is essential to implement a reform of the own resources system today, guaranteeing a contribution of each member state equal to at least 1.24% of gni. it is time to put an end to the system of compensation that has endured over time, creating unjustified advantages and gratuities. the europe we are building today, 50 years after the signing of the treaty of rome, must be inspired by the spirit of the founding fathers so that the financing of the union regains a fairer, more transparent image in the eyes of our fellow citizens and embodies the effort of solidarity for the benefit of the community of destiny to which we belong.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is essential not only because it highlights the financial means for the functioning of the european institutions, but also because it emphasizes the role of parliament in the area of control and offers a concrete expression of the functioning of our europe. as this report stresses, we need to stabilise our finances and our budgetary strategy for 2008 needs to be prudent. this requires, among other things, priority to be given to improving the performance of our services and to redeploying staff. i shall make three quick remarks. firstly, while welcoming the very high quality of the translation services, i would like to point out the increasing delays in the distribution of language versions, which have a negative impact on our work upstream. secondly, i would like to reiterate my request that the same technical and computer resources be available at the various workplaces, strasbourg and brussels. in this period of the anniversary of the treaty of rome, i would also like to stress the possibility for parliament to have an ambitious communication plan for the media. i will also stress the need to improve information for citizens, for example by improving their reception during the sessions. visits by our citizens are often an effective way for them to discover europe. so i would like to see more capacity for visitors, especially in strasbourg, at the seat of the european parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we are in a rather surprising situation. we are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the european union and if we explained to our fellow citizens that the european union does not care for sport for a single second, they would be surprised. it was therefore time for the european union to take up the matter, and to do so as i believe it has been done in the european parliament. i would like to thank the lead rapporteur, mr belet, for the way he has worked on this report for the last six months, a collective effort between different committees and between different democratic political groups in this house. we have therefore taken up this subject in order to respect, as i believe this parliament wants, both the european sporting exception, particularly in relation to the way professional sport is managed in the united states, and the various bodies and structures dealing with professional football: federations, professional leagues, players' unions, agent associations and so on. i believe that this report is useful if we can get these positions across to the various structures and enable them to make their own of the report we are going to vote on tomorrow. i think that the round trips we made between these structures, where the response was extremely strong, were very interesting and made it possible to bring about a number of proposals. so we welcome, and i think everyone will, the different recommendations, the different proposals regarding the training of players, the training of young players, the efforts of uefa in relation to this, to allow young players not to be immediately sold and to play in the training club. we welcome the recommendations concerning what can be called the 'trafficking of young players', with the use of hundreds of young african players, who are left to fend for themselves. we welcome the fact that the report reminds us that immigration laws are meant to be respected, even in the world of professional sport, even in the world of football. the commissioner said that we also welcome the repeated call for the indispensable social dialogue. as mr belet has reminded us, the financial resources at stake in professional football today are exponential, gigantic, and there is a need, in relation to this, for social dialogue, and of course regulation and redistribution. one criticism, however, that came in today, and i'm surprised. everyone is talking, including all the committees, about financial transparency. i have heard some colleagues today suggest that simply saying so is enough. no, the proposal to set up an independent body, perhaps under the aegis of uefa, but independent, would make it possible, and this is the only solution, to move towards financial control and financial transparency. it's not enough to say it. it is as if we were saying, with regard to doping, that we must fight against doping, but without creating any national, european or international body to do so. we need it. i see my time is up. i still had a lot to say. i also welcome the fight against discrimination and racism, which are regularly addressed by the european parliament and the european commission, as well as by the football world as a whole.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the rapporteur, mr ivo belet, for trying to find a compromise between the various committees and political groups in our parliament. but i would like to say right away that i am very disappointed. we had found a compromise between the groups, particularly between the pse and the ppe. this compromise was voted in committee and now it is being amended on essential points, namely the independent regulatory body and the legal status of sports companies. this report will not mark the beginning of a new era for european football, and i regret that very much. nevertheless, i hope that he will be able to establish a collaboration between uefa and the european union in order to make the world of football as clean as possible, because as uefa president michel plattini has said, football is a game before it is a product, a sport before it is a market, a show before it is a business. the deregulation caused by the bosman judgment must now be counterbalanced by clear rules in order to restore the true values of the european union's foremost sport. the european football authorities do not have all the guarantees which would enable them to exercise fully satisfactory regulation. in addition to their limited legal prerogatives, they are both judge and party. they have a difficulty in reconciling their functions as commercial operators and regulators. on this point, as i said at the beginning of my speech, it is regrettable that the epp and the liberals did not follow my twofold proposal, namely the creation of a european legal status for sports clubs and the establishment of an independent body for the supervision of major clubs whose primary function would have been to ensure that the financial, economic and sporting balance of football in europe was preserved. i hope, however, that the european commission will take note of these proposals, which are intended to be a bulwark against current deviations, but also an instrument for promoting a fair and supportive european sporting model. as we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, europe must show its citizens that it remains for them not only a framework for peace and democracy but above all a protective framework against the deviations of the liberal. it is only on this condition that europeans are proud to take part in the great project of european integration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the fictitious rapporteur of my political group in the committee on civil liberties, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr catania, with whom we have had an effective and fruitful collaboration throughout this procedure. sports events are designed to drain large, family-oriented crowds who legitimately want to watch the games in peace and security. in recent years, however, some have used the football stadiums as a venue for violent or racist demonstrations. these deviations are totally unacceptable. football is the most popular sport in the world. in order to prevent such incidents, member states have since 2002 put in place an organised and efficient system for exchanging information on the risks posed by certain matches, and especially by certain dangerous supporters. a single, direct point of contact has been designated in each of our states. these national football information points prepare meticulously for international matches by improving police cooperation between services. it is therefore necessary for them to further improve their exchange of information and to use, for example, standardised forms. this will enable these contact points to work in a more structured and professional manner. i would also like to congratulate mr belet on the inclusion in his overall report of several paragraphs on the fight against racism. i think this is particularly necessary in view of the rise of all forms of intolerance in our society. football can only retain its social and educational role if the matches are non-violent. my colleagues, mr belet, mr bennahmias, mrs hazan, mr bono and i will be tabling a written declaration in the next few hours on the fight against all forms of child trafficking and exploitation in football. i would ask you to support us in this endeavour and to sign this text as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. mr president, once is not customary and that's all right? we will be able to legislate on a maritime safety package in the absence of any accident. we have had to lament the sinking of the erika before, a catastrophic sinking with pollution at sea and very difficult salvage of the wreck, and the sinking of the prestige, which you know better than anyone as a spanish national and which had hit the coast very widely. so i think we should congratulate the commissioner on having proposed this package of seven texts which must remain an overall proposal from the commission and parliament to the council, even if two are now a little ahead of the curve. we have indeed worked a lot on this and i would like to thank all my colleagues, particularly the other political groups, for the excellent work we have been able to do and the remarkable vote we have obtained, which shows the very strong will of parliament to sign today its agreement with this maritime safety package. i am naturally required to present a report, which is probably rather complicated, on the civil liability of ship owners and the insurance companies which are mainly responsible for covering damage to third parties. this does not include damage between two ships that may collide, or between the parties to the transport, i.e. the charterer and the shipowner, but damage to third parties, in particular environmental damage. what the commission is proposing, and i think this is really the minimum that should be assigned to the member states, is to ratify the major conventions of the international maritime organization on liability and compensation for damage to third parties. in this respect, there is a general convention covering all types of damage, the llmc, which has not been ratified by a number of member states, particularly in its 1996 version. the hns convention, which deals with chemical hazards, has not been ratified. we are now completely exposed to chemical risks, far more than to oil risks, and we know that what is transported on european seas is often very dangerous. and then there are two other conventions: one on the protection of abandoned seafarers - you have heard of those extravagant situations where sailors cannot leave the ship after the ship owner has gone bankrupt and they remain at the dock for months - and a convention on liability for damage caused by oil spills, or in other words, by gas leaks. what the commission is proposing is that we ratify these conventions. parliament voted in favour of this proposal and wanted all these conventions to be ratified, in particular the chemical convention. this was not directly proposed by the commission, but we add the desire for ratification. secondly, we believe that a system of transfer of responsibility should be introduced for ships belonging to states which have refused to ratify, whether non-european states or european states which are reluctant to do so. i think that georges jarzembowski is very keen on this increased severity for the ships of states which have not ratified, in order to encourage them to do so. and in those cases, it's not the unforgivable fault that's reprehensible, it's gross negligence, and gross negligence actually makes the system of compensation and liability infinitely more severe. finally, we supported the commission's proposal to create an insurance certificate and to control it by creating, within the maritime safety agency or elsewhere, an office which would make it possible to inquire about the validity of the certificates, in particular for vessels transiting territorial waters and not calling at ports in order to ensure maximum safety. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this text is a tribute to the european parliament and a challenge to the member states. i am one of those who suffered greatly when the erika sank, when i heard a number of heads of state and government, including myself, blame europe for the sinking, saying: 'erika is europe's fault; europe is to blame for the accident. there is no legislation". well, today, there's legislation. it is extremely severe and we say 'shh' to the council and the member states for implementing it.
member of the commission. mr president, let me start by apologising for missing the first few minutes of the very interesting and very important speech by the high representative. the commission agrees with the points made by the high representative in the annual programme he has presented. european citizens may sometimes be ambivalent about the eu. however, in a world of growing challenges to peace and security and where our values are under threat, individual member states can do little alone. as we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, the european union has become a global player, with a population of half a billion across 27 countries, accounting for a quarter of world income, over a fifth of world trade and some 60% of global development assistance. we have the means to play our role in world affairs. the internal market has been the main source of our strength. it has also been the key factor for enlargement, the most successful peace and security initiative ever carried out in europe, and for the european neighbourhood policy, which aims to bring both the eastern european and mediterranean countries closer to us and our values. in order to take on the new long-term challenges, in particular the fight against terror and arms proliferation, poverty and disease, organised crime and illegal migration, climate change and threats to our energy supply, we need a fully joined-up foreign policy – one which includes common foreign and security policy aspects, but also goes well beyond. the point of departure must be increased coherence in the use of our instruments. as we said in the commission’s communication ‘europe in the world’, the overall effectiveness and therefore the global influence of the eu depend on optimal use of all available leverage in support of external goals. the commission is already doing this. experience has shown that dealing with crises is not just a matter of sending soldiers and policemen. it is about rebuilding and strengthening institutions, improving governance, reinforcing human rights and democracy, and setting the conditions for economic life. these are long-term tasks, and they need to bring security together with humanitarian and development aid, trade, investment and all relevant external aspects of internal policies. we are present in almost all the hot spots. we will remain a major player in afghanistan, where we have spent more than a billion euros over the last five years; in the middle east, where we are using the temporary international mechanism to support the palestinians; and in iraq, where we are preparing for a long-term engagement. institutionally, there are many recent examples of positive synergies: the eu’s contribution to the aceh peace process is a mix of common foreign and security policy and community instruments; the border assistance missions in the palestinian territories and in moldova and ukraine illustrate how community assistance helps reinforce the impact of the cfsp and vice versa. in kosovo and afghanistan, the major esdp operations under preparation will be supported by community initiatives. we shall also help finance the future international civilian office in kosovo. that being said, the biggest challenges for the common foreign and security policy are still before us. it is much easier to agree to set up mechanisms to address instability in the developing world and support effective multilateralism than to make common decisions which affect member states’ vital bilateral relationships outside the european union. the risk of splits is always present. we need to have faith in our own strength. my conclusions are simple: the more consistent we are, and the clearer we speak with one voice, the stronger we shall be.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr high representative mr solana, mrs kuneva, representative of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are determined to build the foundations of peace and security and to ensure the stability of our continent. enlargement has been one of the great successes of our foreign policy in encouraging new countries to emerge from decades of totalitarianism. we welcome the pace of negotiations with croatia and are confident that both croatia and the european union will be ready to allow croatian citizens to participate in the 2009 european elections. after ten years of ethnic conflict in the balkans, the european union has a duty to contribute to peace and stability in the region. our group supports the plan presented by martti ahtisaari. it is essential for the establishment of a politically stable and economically viable kosovo, which also respects the rights of minorities. we must also make every effort to help the democratic opposition in belarus. i am particularly concerned about the actions of the armed forces in minsk on sunday and the treatment of alexander milinkevich, who is the winner of the sakharov prize of parliament, and his wife. nevertheless, alexander knows he can count on our support. europe must continue to fight on the human rights front. our group deplores the continuing violation of human rights in north korea and condemns the imprisonment of more than 200,000 political prisoners. it is developing weapons and striving for nuclear supremacy, while its citizens suffer from malnutrition. let us not lose our vigilance. as far as darfur is concerned, we are dealing with a real genocide. the sudanese government must disarm the militias, cooperate with the international tribunal and cooperate with the international community, and the european union must urgently call for a large reinforcement of men on the ground. the crisis in zimbabwe also deserves our full attention. the brutal treatment of the representatives of the movement for democratic change is an affront to us all. if we do not act, zimbabwe as a whole is in danger of falling into chaos. the epp-ed group is calling for a stronger europe in a safer world. and the proliferation of nuclear weapons makes our planet even more dangerous. we must continue our efforts to reach a negotiated solution to the iranian nuclear programme. iran will only become a full member of the international community if it fully complies with the security council resolutions. the capture last week of 15 british seamen by the iranian armed forces is an unacceptable and very worrying development. everything must be done to free all british sailors as soon as possible. finally, we must strengthen the partnership with the united states, take further steps towards a transatlantic market and, above all, conclude the doha round of the wto. this cycle must indeed end, since it is a cycle of development for the poorest people in the world, and i hope that very soon, we will find a solution to this cycle. mr solana, we trust you and we support you in making much more progress towards peace on the question of palestine. you mentioned it this morning, it's very important to us. on behalf of all europeans, thank you for your action.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, i would first like to express my solidarity with the british sailors and nurses who are in prison in bulgaria. we should put pressure on both iran and libya to release these two groups. mr president, i am speaking in french so that comrade javier solana can understand me without any problems. for what is nuclear disarmament: yes. everyone knows, however, that the one who has the civil nuclear is a great country, the one who wants to have the military nuclear. the key to nuclear disarmament is civil denuclearisation: which does not denuclearise, does not arrive at nuclear disarmament. we have seen it with korea, we see it now with iran, we see it now with india, we see it now with pakistan, and so on. all this is lying, and that is not always understood in many countries. i tell you this: this is the problem we have. the european union must take the initiative. i agree, and our group agrees, with our former colleague, chris patten, who wrote a very good article, i agree with the intellectuals who called for the european union to take the initiative. it is not a question of discussion. it is to prevent hundreds and hundreds of people being killed and massacred by the sudanese forces every day! i have to say it! every day we pass by, they die! that is why i agree with graham watson: we must take the initiative at the un. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the reality of the situation. this is the least we can do for darfur! at the same time, we must also find a solution. that's how you tell things to the chinese. the chinese are accommodating all the massacres because they want oil. human lives are sold for a litre of oil! that is inadmissible for the european union. the anti-missile shield, then. here too, we must be clear. this anti-missile shield, i don't know if it's directed against russia. i don't know who it's directed against, but if it's directed against iran, it's completely ridiculous! this is ridiculous! if the iranians want to attack us, how can we use their fonts? par of the suicide bombing! what are you doing? inventing a star wars shield? it can't walk! on expenses of the billion and the billion! pour what? pour rien! what are you doing? the problem is that once again the americans are unilaterally defining what is necessary for a part of europe. that's the political problem. the europeans, the poles, the czechs, the french and the germans must understand that european political union is the reason and also the only possibility for our independence in order to impose a multilateral world. this debate is political because it is a question of the very existence of the european union. this is article 16 of our treaties! in foreign policy, we must have a concert. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr high representative, i shall confine my remarks to one subject, but one which is central: the middle east. a few weeks ago, it was feared that the worst was about to happen, with all political outlets closed to an occupation that had become intolerable for the palestinian people, and the spectre of civil war looming. this terrible danger has been averted, but unfortunately not by the efforts of the international community, including the european union. the embargo decided by the quartet has, on the contrary, ended up drowning the heads of the victims and fuelling extremism. no, the unexpected glimmer of hope is due to the authors of the prisoners' document, in particular marouane barghouti, to the tireless efforts of president mahmoud abbas - as you said - to the joint action of all the palestinian democratic forces and also, as you said, to the renewed diplomatic initiatives of the arab countries. here's the result. the mecca agreement paved the way for the formation of the government of national unity. moreover, a prominent representative of these democratic forces, now a minister in this government, mr bassam al salhi, secretary-general of the palestinian people's party, is at this very moment honouring us with a visit to the european parliament. he is following our debates in the gallery, and i wish to be able to greet him and through him to greet this whole union government. (applause) i would like to thank this government agreement was made on the basis of far-reaching political commitments by the entire government, commitments which unfortunately have no equivalent on the israeli side, and which reflect the quartet's conditions. in my opinion, in our opinion, and i think in the opinion of many colleagues, mr high representative, it would be a serious mistake not to take this opportunity to revive hope. we therefore call on the european union to resume direct aid to the palestinian authority, to recognise the new government of national unity and to advocate for such recognition within the quartet. this request is the core of an appeal by meps whose first signatories represent a very wide political spectrum and often assume important responsibilities in relation to the issues of the middle east. in the hope, mr high representative, that after the adoption of the berlin declaration, the twenty-seven will be keen to realise their ambition to be a global actor in the service of peace, i have the honour to hand over the text of this appeal to you at the outset.
the rapporteur. mr president, i ask for referral back to committee on the basis of rule 53. amendment no 1, which calls for a double legal basis, namely article 37 and article 95, was adopted by a very large majority in this house, by 585 votes. the commissioner replied yesterday that she did not accept this amendment. i therefore think that we must go further in the negotiations with the commission, while keeping the report, which i welcome, as it stands; but we must go further and i therefore ask for referral back to committee. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr thomas ulmer on the amendment of various directives on medical devices. the term 'medical devices' covers a wide range of products covering syringes, eyeglasses, devices for diagnosing diseases, small implantable devices, medical imaging etc., and it became essential to strengthen the competitiveness and medical safety in this sector. to do this, the current legislative framework, which, with three directives, defines the essential requirements to be met by medical devices, needed to be improved, in particular in terms of clinical evaluation, transparency, market surveillance, conformity of tailor-made devices, use of human tissues, coordination of independent bodies, among others. the practical provisions voted in this text will improve the harmonisation of this highly complex and diverse sector by providing clearer and simpler rules. it should be remembered that many manufacturers in this sector operate on the world market and therefore efforts will have to be made to encourage the process of international cooperation, particularly in the area of harmonization of standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this revision. it is regrettable that the proposal to ban all carcinogens, mutagens and substances toxic to reproduction in medical devices has been rejected. nevertheless, this compromise is a crucial first step towards the elimination of toxic chemicals used in medical devices and found in the bodies of patients. the legislation will require medical device manufacturers to label devices if they contain phthalates, a family of chemicals used to make plastic flexible. the european union has classified dehp phthalate as toxic to human reproduction and there are considerable concerns about its migration from devices to patients, including infants and dialysis patients. the labelling of devices will alert doctors to the risks of exposure of their patients, and hospital purchasing managers will be able to easily identify dehp-free plastic devices already on the market. for sensitive patients, manufacturers will have to provide explanations of the risks of using devices containing toxic chemicals and suggest precautions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs vicenzi's report aims to harmonize the rules, particularly as regards the derogations which flag states may grant in the union from the standards laid down by the international labour organization and the maritime organisation for international trade. this is a very good goal, but it does not solve all the problems. as everyone knows, the main problem in commercial shipping is that of flags of convenience; the fact that a country like liberia, which was in a state of total anarchy, actually has one of the largest navies in the world, over which it is obviously incapable of exercising any real control, is a particular reason for this. we must put an end to this completely abnormal situation which leads to social dumping and we must examine the safety conditions which have been observed in this case. while the flag state retains control over the conditions under which it grants or refuses the right to do so and the rules it imposes on vessels flying its flag and on its crews, this freedom is not equalled by the right of states to refuse access to their territorial waters, exclusive economic zones and internal waters to vessels which clearly do not comply with the minimum rules and are a danger to the security of coastal states. we would like to see this parliament's thinking go in that direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of referring the aubert report on organic production and labelling to the committee on agriculture. it is necessary that the threshold for accidental contamination with gmos should not be the same as that for conventional agriculture, i.e. in the order of 0.9%, because this would de facto mean that contamination could no longer be prevented, nor could it be guaranteed that a product, even if certified organic, is free from gmos. in this respect, i supported the proposal from the european socialists that the presence of gmos in organic products should be limited exclusively to unpredictable and technically unavoidable volumes up to a maximum value of 0.1% and that the term organic should not be used to designate products with an accidental contamination of gmos above the detectable threshold of 0.1%. finally, i support the request for a change of legal basis on the issue of organic farming. the european parliament is moving from being a consultant to being a co-decision-maker on this issue, which is a step forward.
in writing. in the light of current football news, the problem of security at international football matches is real. europe is facing violence in football stadiums, especially for european or international matches. in order to avoid tragedies or fights between hooligans, the european union has had the idea of creating an information network on the possible risks of such violent outbreaks. european solidarity and foresight will thus play a very important role in ensuring the safety of european citizens attending meetings. we must not allow the "fake" fans to degrade the image of football values. the report thus makes it possible to create national football information points, which will serve as places for the exchange of information. the purpose of this exchange is to prepare and take appropriate measures to maintain order at a football event. it may, in particular, concern information concerning individuals who present or may present a danger to public order and security. the spectacular nature of football matches has been altered by the recurrent and persistent incidents of violence. the european union cannot let this go on any longer.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lamassoure report on the future of the eu's own resources. the current system makes the union's budget too dependent on national wishes. i support the rapporteur's analysis that this system has become over time far too complex and, above all, inadequate to meet the new challenges of the union, thus requiring a return to a genuine system of own resources provided for in the union's founding treaties. i welcome the proposal to abolish all forms of rebates and compensation granted to member states as a first step and to use a tax already existing in the member states to feed directly into the union budget. this would be the best way to ensure sustainable eu funding that is at the same time acceptable to national parliaments. i voted against paragraph 25 of the resolution, which was rejected by a small majority. i am not opposed to any consideration of a new financing system, but i reject the idea that the eu-15 should be able to implement a process of compulsory co-financing of the cap, which would be tantamount to renationalizing the first common european policy.
in writing. i abstained on mr lamassoure's report because i do not approve of the co-financing of the first pillar of the cap mentioned in paragraph 25, which opens the door to a certain renationalisation of one of the few integrated common policies. moreover, this hypothesis had already been raised, but was rejected at the berlin agreement in 2000. it does not seem to me to be wise to base the new direction of the cap - which is necessary in order to be fairer, more in line with sustainable development - on this basis of co-financing by the member states.
in writing. unlike the ecsc, which was financed by a genuine own resource, the european union having almost abandoned the collection of customs duties which now represent only 9.8% of its resources, the financing of the european budget is that of a common intergovernmental organization financed by state contributions: in this case, a gni contribution representing 73.8% of community resources. the resources are currently capped at 1.24% of gni and will remain so. it is simply foreseen that after 2014 a new system would apply, inspired by the classic federal solution of sharing the tax revenue of a tax between the union and the national states. twelve taxes are proposed for this sharing: from vat to the tobin tax and from corporation tax to eco-taxation. this is the french system from 1791 to 1917, on the additional pennies to state taxes to finance local governments. if the union were to pursue a major policy of investment in health, research, universities and railways instead of the malthusianism of article 104c of the maastricht treaty, the accession of national citizens would allow either financing by borrowing or even an allocated tax on which the profits of companies would be the right base.
mr president, the total amount of european aid to darfur since 2004 is eur 304 million, and that is a positive figure. but what are we waiting for to act more effectively at the political level, so that the crimes against humanity committed in this part of the world finally stop? two hundred thousand dead, two million displaced people, what more do we need to do to take real action and stop being satisfied with conclusions that merely state our concerns? how far should we go in counting the dead before we finally decide to turn statements into deeds? the prosecutor of the international criminal court has presented substantial evidence against individuals accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity, including a minister in the sudanese government. we have been able to deploy a whole arsenal of sanctions against moldovan separatists, against agitators in congo, liberia, côte d'ivoire, against belarusian leaders. let us impose the same sanctions - visa bans, asset freezes - on all those named in the reports of the commission of inquiry and the un group of experts. let us stop declaring our good faith and finally act more concretely, more politically, without worrying about geopolitical assumptions.
mr president, our assembly must mobilize to demand and obtain the resignation of paul wolfowitz as president of the world bank. everyone here remembers the conditions under which, as a result of american domestic policy arbitrations, he was appointed to head this institution, one of the most important in our international financial system. today, for reasons of methodology, we will not be able to argue under article 115 that the retention of paul wolfowitz as head of the world bank constitutes a breach of the rule of law within that institution. however, i call on all the political groups to use the resolution we will adopt on transatlantic relations to show our determination to get this resignation and if, unfortunately, this was not the case at our mini-session in brussels, to get the commission to come and make a statement to our assembly, so that we can argue that the world bank must have at its head someone who does not undermine the credibility of an institution that must be able to function at a time when the world order urgently needs it.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and in particular the rapporteur, jean-paul gauzès, for their excellent work in preparing the report on the directive on payment services in the internal market. i also thank you for your patience regarding the deferral of this plenary vote. this has provided the time needed to find common ground between the three institutions. currently, 27 different sets of national rules apply to payment transactions. although we have the euro, national payments markets continue to be fragmented and, sadly, all too often payments are slow and expensive and consumers poorly served. this makes life for our citizens and businesses more difficult than it should be. it holds up their daily activities and hinders their business development. in some cases, desirable payment products, such as direct debits, are simply not available. the directive aims to remedy this situation in two main ways: on the one hand, by providing greater legal certainty and improved consumer protection, and, on the other hand, by opening up the payments market to more competition to encourage greater efficiency and innovation. the directive provides greater legal certainty by establishing a harmonised set of rights and obligations for users and providers, as well as clear information requirements. both are essential to an integrated eu payments market, at the heart of which is sepa, the single european payments area. sepa is an industry initiative strongly supported by the european institutions. sepa will allow for the creation of an integrated market, enabling payments to be executed more quickly and easily throughout the european union. the efficiency of our payments systems should be enhanced and the cost of payments to the economy as a whole reduced. adoption of the proposed directive is therefore crucial for the successful launch of sepa. but the picture would not be complete without the other objective of the directive, namely that of fostering more competition in payments markets through the establishment of an appropriate and balanced prudential framework for new entrants. new payment institutions, such as money remitters, mobile operators and retailers, should act as a spur to innovation. throughout these long months of negotiation, both the council and the commission have been very aware of the views set out in the report adopted by the economic and monetary affairs committee last september. the compromise text, which is now on the table as amendment 286, therefore seeks to meet these objectives and, in particular, calls for a strengthened prudential framework for the new payment institutions. in addition to the qualitative prudential requirements already proposed by the commission, these new institutions will now be subject to a regime of appropriate and balanced capital charges – both initial and ongoing, and hybrid institutions, such as retailers or telecom companies, must also meet safeguarding requirements such as ring-fencing. the directive’s scope will be limited to payments that both originate and end in the european union. it is, however, important not to forget about payment transactions involving non-eu member states or non-eu currencies. consumers rightly expect the provisions protecting them with regard to theft, loss or misappropriation of payment instruments to apply irrespective of whether non-authorised use takes place inside or outside the european union. performance, quality and price of payments made towards third countries should also improve. eu consumers transfer considerable amounts of funds to third countries, often to support their families. the costs of such payments can be very high. therefore, after three years of operation, the scope of the directive should be reviewed in order to assess whether ‘one-leg payments’, where only one of the parties involved is in the eu, or payments in non-eu currencies, should be included. let me conclude: european citizens and businesses today need a single payments market, in which payments can be made as quickly, efficiently and conveniently as domestic payments. this directive can provide the market with the necessary legal foundation for sepa and with a new prudential framework fostering new competition.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 december 2005, the european commission published a proposal for a directive on payment services in the internal market with the aim of creating a genuine single market for payments in the european union. as rapporteur for parliament in january 2006, i felt that, although some of the european commission's forecasts seemed optimistic, the achievement of such a market through harmonisation of national legislation would remove some obstacles and have a positive effect on growth. i therefore approved the european commission's initiative in principle. the proposal for a directive also came at an opportune time to make the banking sector's initiative to create a single area for payments in euro a success. the objectives set out by the european commission were to strengthen competition by creating new players - as you have just mentioned, commissioner - to improve market transparency for both providers and users, and to clarify the rights and obligations of users and providers. in order to make this legislative proposal more effective and to take account of the technical constraints of industry, while maintaining the objective of reducing costs for the benefit of users, the economic committee adopted a number of consistent amendments which were finally unanimously approved by the members of the committee. throughout the procedure, informal contacts were maintained between representatives of the european parliament, the successive presidencies and the european commission. these discussions enabled parliament, which, as is rare, took its position before the council reached an agreement, to exert tangible influence on the negotiations in the council. i am particularly pleased with the fruitful cooperation with the german presidency, which has spared no effort, and with your commission. on 27 march 2007, the finance ministers meeting in the economic and financial affairs council finally adopted unanimously a general approach on a compromise text. i think that compromise is acceptable today. i would like to thank the german presidency. his efficient work and good cooperation with the european parliament have brought this matter to the point where it is now close to being settled. the council agreed with parliament on the main points, namely the reduction of the scope of application to payments in euro or other currencies within the european union - an arrangement that could be introduced after a trial period - the restriction of the activity of payment institution to legal persons, the introduction of strict conditions for authorisation, the introduction of initial and ongoing capital, the limitation of funds for hybrid institutions, the limitation of the granting of credit to twelve months with the prohibition of revolving credit, and the introduction of a provision indicating that the granting of credit must not be in contradiction with european and national rules, in particular those relating to consumer credit. the commission has also made progress in the areas of better information for consumers, by distinguishing between information which must be actively provided and information which must only be made available to consumers, the possibility for micro-enterprises to benefit from the same protection as consumers with regard to information, and a limited possibility of derogation, with a maximum transaction volume of eur 3 million. the text as it stands sets a deadline for execution at j+1 and a clear division of responsibilities between the different payment service providers in the event of a transaction being executed incorrectly. this is the compromise text on which parliament will vote tomorrow. given the significant progress made at ecofin towards parliament's position and the stakeholders' objective of reaching agreement at first reading, i tabled only one amendment in plenary, which takes up the ecofin compromise. i would ask my colleagues to support this amendment. an amendment 287 on data protection, which aims to amend article 71, was tabled by the european unitary left. i do not think that this amendment should be accepted by parliament. on the other hand, commissioner, it would be desirable - and i am also addressing the representatives of the presidency and the council - that parliament should be given assurances in this respect. the compromise text is certainly not perfect and some of my colleagues may have the opportunity to say so. however, it has the merit of laying the already solid foundations for an internal payments market. it is important to stress what this step forward represents, which leads to the harmonization of payment systems which are now strictly national. it is worth noting that this is not just the case for crossborder payments, which account for less than 5% of payments, but for all payments made. despite its obvious technical aspect, this text has a certain political significance. it improves the relationship between consumers and payment financial service providers and participates in the lisbon strategy. but i would also like to emphasize that on this specific and particularly sensitive subject, since it could create conflicts of interest, parliament, in its diversity, has found a solution more quickly than the governments. maybe it's because we have more here than elsewhere... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, eight years after the euro, i think it is reasonable for the union to have a single market for payment systems. i think it is equally reasonable that this parliament has insisted that at the same time as we are setting up this single market for payments, we should legislate for payment institutions, the new entrant in this market. when i look at all the parties involved in the establishment of this new dimension of the internal market, whether they are banks, distributors, administrations or consumers, it seems to me that we will finally appreciate better the validity of the legislation we are going to adopt if, in the future, payment services are not more expensive for consumers and if their diversity is valued in such a way as to facilitate access to modern means of payment. i also think we were right to insist that payment institutions may not be subject to all the standards set by basel ii, but that at a minimum their stability and viability should be ensured in the interests of the consumer. i also regret that there is a certain confusion between the concept of a loan and that of a payment. i hope that the agreement reached with this text will not jeopardise agreement on a consumer credit directive which the union so badly needs. finally, let me stress the meaning of amendment no 287 and, above all, the letter that the president of our institution received from the chairman of the group of the party of european socialists, the so-called article 29 group, which is responsible for data protection in the european union. we cannot accept today to vote on the report by our colleague mr gauzès without guarantees from both the commission and the council. i therefore appeal to our two institutional partners that when the sepa system is implemented we should not be in a situation where, with what we know about the swift system, we are forced to increase the drift we are experiencing. we need to know that by the time the sepa system comes into full force, we will have a system that allows the protection of data exchanged through swift. we also need, and i am awaiting a statement from the other two institutions on this point, that negotiations be opened with our american partners to verify the conditions under which the data transmitted by swift are being transmitted to the american administration.
mr president, the council is represented here and very clear questions have been put to it directly, in particular on the council's commitment to support the european parliament's concerns on data protection. i would therefore like the council to comment on this.
mr president, tonight we are discussing a particularly important breakthrough which should enable future generations to benefit from high-tech medical treatments. it is therefore necessary that european patients have access to these breakthrough products without discrimination because of the potential they offer. it is also important to ensure that these products are safe and effective. in the absence of community legislation, the situation varies from one country to another and is not fair to patients: some have access to products while others are deprived of them. commissioner, you yourself said that in such a situation there would be medical tourism. so to overcome these obstacles, we need a clear, strict framework to encourage investment and growth in the biotechnology industry in europe. the technical aspect is completely unnecessary in this context, since, due to subsidiarity, each member state retains the freedom to decide whether or not to ban this type of cellular technology on its national market. i particularly support the technical package tabled by mrs roth-behrendt in the form of amendments, which takes up all the points of agreement that have been found during the various informal trilogues with the council and the commission. i really hope that we will vote in favour of this technical package because it will enable us to reach agreement at first reading and to respond more quickly to the expectations of patients. i am absolutely sorry about the legal affairs committee's amendments nos 3 and 17. they simply prohibit any centralised authorisation of innovative therapy products derived from embryonic stem cells. i would like to remind you that the purpose of this text is to guarantee the safety of new therapies, while facilitating the research and development and the authorization of products derived from these innovative therapies. amendments nos 3 and 17 create a real danger to patient safety by excluding certain products from the very strict public health requirements of the regulation. when the health of patients is at stake, any form of discrimination is unacceptable. the establishment of a european technical framework, which patients and industry have been waiting for for several years now, should not be used as a pretext to impose one ideological viewpoint or another.
mr president, we all want to move forward to effectively punish counterfeiting, which is economically, socially and culturally unacceptable, and mr zingaretti has made a great deal of effort to arrive at this compromise proposal. however, i am struck by the great confusion in this debate between those who defend consumers and trash the rights of creators and performers and those who at the same time defend community jurisdiction and want national courts to remain sovereign. i think there are real problems here that deserve further consideration. on one point, at least, my ideas are clear: it is the cultural impact of this text. i am referring to the amendments adopted by the legal affairs committee to articles 2 and 3. they propose definitions of intellectual property rights. that is not the purpose of the directive. they propose a restrictive wording of the intentional infringement and the commercial scale. this is contrary to the discretion of national courts and, above all, does not actually lead to the incrimination of downloading from person to person. it follows that the provisions are contrary to the acquis communautaire, in particular the 2001 copyright directive, and that they pose a considerable risk to creativity and cultural diversity by calling into question national legislation which represses such conduct contrary to the rights of authors and performers. that is why i support the drafting of the original proposal by the executive committee and, in any case, in our debate, amendment no 30 by mrs sharon bowles. we are on very serious ground for cultural diversity.
in writing. in the face of the increase in piracy and counterfeiting, it is essential to work effectively to ensure that intellectual property rights are respected. this protection must be accompanied by sanctions, because counterfeiting is unacceptable from an economic, social or cultural point of view. the european commission's proposal, by introducing criminal sanctions for any intentional infringement of an intellectual property right committed on a commercial scale, is therefore in line with the recommendations adopted in 2005 on the future of textiles and clothing after 2005. the will to fight for the respect of intellectual property rights, which guarantee the competitiveness of our economies, the dynamism of industry and the creative world, can only be welcomed. however, by proposing definitions of intellectual property rights, and by introducing a restrictive definition of 'commercial scale' and 'intentional infringement', the legal affairs committee of the european parliament is infringing the principle of subsidiarity in criminal matters and calling into question the community acquis in this field. the strengthening of intellectual property rights in the european union must preserve the free interpretation of national courts in respect of the two elements mentioned above. the drafting proposed by the european commission should therefore be supported.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, this is a very important report and, in my three minutes of comments, i would like to make five points. first of all, i fully share your assessment of the importance and successful outcome of the cohesion policy in curbing disparities through growth-enhancing investment, in contributing to europe’s social, economic and territorial cohesion and in improving administration and public governance, particularly at sub-national level. the fourth cohesion report, which will be published at the end of may, will analyse the situation and economic, social and territorial cohesion trends in the union, as well as the contribution to the union’s cohesion of european cohesion policy, of national policies and of other community policies. on this basis, the report will set out initial reflections on the future shape of european cohesion policy and hopefully, therefore, will also contribute to the overall review without prejudging options. the fifth cohesion report, due in 2010, will take account of the budgetary review and is likely to contain the commission’s detailed proposal for cohesion-policy reform. secondly, i fully share your views on the new challenges facing cohesion policy, both internally and as a result of global trends, in particular your views on the impact of demographic trends, climate change and increasing pressure from dynamic competitors. let me also assure you that i find your question about the impact of possible future enlargements on the scope of cohesion policy legitimate. but let me also stress that it is precisely with the aim of addressing all these challenges that we have reformed and modernised the cohesion policy for 2007-2013. thirdly, with regard to the impact of the possible accession of croatia and the western balkans, let me first of all underline that the potential effect of croatia’s accession is estimated to be rather small, with a decrease of 0.5% of gdp per head compared to that of the eu-27. the budgetary impact of croatia’s possible accession will be assessed by the commission at a later stage in the accession negotiations. in line with the approach to previous enlargements, the final decision on financial allocation lies with the european council. fourthly, as regards turkey, i would like to stress that under the accession negotiating framework the negotiations are an open-ended process, the outcome of which cannot be guaranteed beforehand. as turkey’s accession could have substantial financial consequences, the financial aspects of the accession negotiations can only be concluded after the establishment of the financial framework for the post-2013 period, together with possible resulting financial reforms. any arrangements should ensure that the financial burdens are fully shared among all member states. however, we must realise that turkey’s economy might differ greatly in the medium term from its present state. fifthly, i agree with your proposals as regards the financial allocation, effectiveness and sound management of cohesion policy. i also consider that a sufficient financial allocation is a prerequisite for the policy’s success. the impact of cohesion policy goes far beyond its financing aspects and embraces governance, networking, best practice and growth-leverage. the cohesion policy reform has already focused on the policy’s increasing leverage effect by strengthening private-capital participation and by using innovative financial instruments. however, i agree that further work in this direction, aimed at further increasing the impact of cohesion policy on new growth cohesion and competitiveness, is necessary. we are also well aware of the importance of developing administrative capacity, implementing sound control and management systems and fighting corruption so as to ensure the effectiveness of cohesion policy. i will listen carefully to your debate on the report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, the role of cobu was to provide, in a vote which was unanimous with one abstention, an opinion on, of course, the budgetary consequences of future enlargements on the effectiveness of cohesion policy. however, if cohesion policy, together with all structural policies, is the best expression of the solidarity of the european people, the desires for intelligent solidarity must be met by appropriate budgetary means. it is in this sense that i would like to emphasize two important ideas expressed by cobu. the first is to require that the commission and the council systematically present financial scenarios before deciding to enter into negotiations with a candidate country and, secondly, detailed financial scenarios throughout the negotiation process. the second idea is to emphasize that, in the present state of the union's resources system, any future enlargements could not be financed without undermining the effectiveness of current policies. that is why i would like to urge the council and the commission tonight to engage in a constant and constructive dialogue with our assembly, which, i remind you, shares the budgetary authority.
mr president, commissioner, i think this report has both an advantage and a disadvantage. i hope that this will help to provide a better understanding of the consequences of future enlargements. it could be a disadvantage if we only consider the negative aspects of these future enlargements, since our colleague has pointed out a number of disadvantages which can be quite worrying, and i can understand that. the commissioner, i personally have to ask you to give us three points in the answer which i think you will give us. it is not just a question of giving us the financial consequences in terms of expenditure but also in terms of revenue, and also the other revenue from a human point of view for example. and it is also a question of showing us what the other political paths and consequences are. let us not hide our faces, the question is turkey. i am not in favour of turkey's integration, but i am in favour of examining this question very quickly, with clarity and realism, and finding the right answers in the interests of the eu, turkey and all turks. i thank you, commissioner, for your answer on these three points: revenue, expenditure and political developments.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has been conducting accession negotiations with croatia and turkey since october 2005, without prejudging the outcome of this process. it also recognised the candidate status of macedonia and the vocation of the other balkan states to become candidates. with the exception of the special case of turkey, i share this view. i am convinced that without the balkans european unification would remain incomplete, but i also believe that the road ahead will be long and full of obstacles and, above all, that the possibility of further enlargements requires us to provide precise and urgent answers to three essential questions relating to the institutional, political and financial reforms that the union urgently needs. firstly, we must settle a debate which has been avoided for too long by our member states and define the ultimate frontiers of the union for the future. this decision would also allow us to specify the content of a preferential partnership to be proposed in the context of a strengthened neighbourhood policy. the second question is to clarify the future of the principle of economic, social and territorial cohesion within the union. it is unacceptable that successive enlargements lead to more and more regions being excluded from european solidarity merely because of statistical reasons, without the existing disparities having been effectively eliminated. we must look at a more progressive model for cohesion policy, with longer transition periods, both for new beneficiaries and for those who are no longer entitled to them. finally, the last question naturally concerns financial reform. in the present state of our budget, any future enlargements could not be financed without jeopardising the effectiveness of the current cohesion policies. the union needs new own resources and a budget that is commensurate with its ambitions. all these questions can be summed up in one question: do we want to give the union the capacity to integrate new member states? we must take a decision, it is a duty of responsibility towards our fellow citizens and the countries that knock at our door.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate our rapporteur on his work and the content of his report on the annual political strategy. this work is the beginning of our budgetary procedure and we share most of the concerns and often the priorities expressed therein. i would like to focus on two specific points. as every year, parliament sets out priorities which it would like the european commission to implement. this year, among the objectives which parliament intends to assign to the budgetary procedure is the idea of a budget oriented towards results, which in our view means clear objectives for precise implementation. i agree with that. it is important that we demonstrate our willingness to ensure that the union's spending programmes contribute to the achievement of the political objectives they are intended to achieve, for several reasons: the achievement of these political objectives is crucial to the union's legitimacy in the eyes of its citizens; we must support the commission's intention to develop the principle of 'better lawmaking' in its new initiatives and working methods. finally, i am firmly convinced that an effective administrative system for the union must be equipped with the necessary resources. i would like to express my doubts about the use made of the results of this year, and i am addressing the council here, which is unfortunately absent. agrees that greater attention should be paid to the objectives and evaluation of the results of implemented policies. i also think that this evaluation must go beyond the mere information on the administrative process as it was previously part of the bops. however, my group will strongly oppose the use of this evaluation as a basis for possible budget cuts in administrative or human resources choices. personal accountability for the functioning of the union is an important element of the activity-based budget approach. but if this responsibility is to be transformed into a spirit of initiative, the european commission must be given the means to act. finally, i would like to remind you of the importance my group attaches to communication problems. it should be remembered that the essential aspect of communication and information policy is to inform every citizen of the union about the work of the institutions. i therefore support the commission's proposal to launch campaigns on the political priorities of the union. these campaigns can be launched as soon as parliament has voted on these priorities. we are, however, expecting a lot from the hearing organised by the committee on budgets. its conclusions will serve as a basis for the development of a new communication policy. democracy is a difficult exercise, one of the pillars of which is information.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, the annual strategy proposed by the european commission for the 2008 budgetary procedure must strictly implement the decisions of the legislator. she mustn't upset them. despite the fact that climate change is a major topic - i would remind you of the stern report, the conclusions of the ipcc - the commission proposal dilutes the notion of sustainable development. it mentions only the headings prosperity, solidarity, security and external radiation, the contents of which remain arbitrary. we can recall, madam commissioner, our fight to obtain, at the time of the financial perspective, a boost of 100 million euros for environmental protection, which the commission immediately reduced by 50%. while it has been so difficult to obtain funds for the environmental programme, i note how easy it has been to find additional means to finance the frontex agency as an instrument to combat illegal immigration. these budgetary signals illustrate how much the financial perspective limits our room for manoeuvre and demonstrate, once again, that the environment budget is still a sore spot. despite the urgency and importance of the environment to our citizens, this budget is severely limited to meet the challenges of combating climate change and the erosion of biodiversity. the natura 2000 network needs €6 billion a year to function properly. despite these imperfections, i would like to express my interest in the new initiatives of the european commission in the area of external radiation. the renewable energy and energy efficiency fund and the global climate alliance must enable the acp countries, and africa in particular, to embark on a development which more openly integrates the environmental and social pillars than we have done, and thus to give value to the notion of sustainable development. the green group also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. our group has always been in favour of sufficient and stable human resources. and in the case of executive agencies, it needs to be considered on a case-by-case basis whether programmes are better delivered with an executive agency or whether a centralised approach should be maintained, as the european parliament has called for for life+.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to support the intervention of our rapporteur on the budget, mr kyösti virrankoski, and also to thank him warmly for the quality of his work and for the constant willingness to dialogue he has shown. i shall confine myself to four brief remarks tonight. first of all, i would like the commission to take even more account of the rules of budgetary reform in order to construct an annual activity budget which makes it possible to hold each directorate and division responsible for its implementation accountable. secondly, as far as the agencies are concerned, the european commission cannot, as it stands, envisage the creation of new decentralised bodies without first assessing the budgetary implications in terms of the union's financial resources. thirdly, there should be even more transparency in staff expenditure and provision should be made for staff redeployment to take even more account of the legislative priorities of our assembly. fourth and final point to conclude. if we are to meet the challenges of globalisation and reap the benefits for our economy in terms of jobs, we need to further step up our efforts in research and innovation. however, until the european union has more resources, the european commission will have to concentrate its efforts on the political and budgetary priorities decided by parliament.
mr president, commissioner, you have a difficult task ahead of you, because i can see that there will be very different opinions on both sides. on the one hand, you will have the support of a number of consumer associations which will welcome your proposal. on the other hand, you will have many interest groups who will denounce the risks of such a direction in the field of competition law. however, if you propose an initiative in your own area of anti-trust, you are at a level where the commission's action is probably less contested than elsewhere. i am thinking in particular of the way in which the commission assesses a particular merger proposal. in the area of cartels, the terrain is, in some ways, more favourable to a wider agreement between member states and public actors. the idea is therefore to complement public action with private action. we are still in the preliminary stage, and we can see that the road will be full of obstacles. there are those who, like my colleague mr doorn, imagine that the commission does not have to take a decision on initiatives in this area, because all this would be a matter for the civil law of the member states. and then there are those who - and i think all the speakers have said so tonight - are concerned about the potential for misuse of such an initiative, and when we think of misuse in this area, everyone has in mind the misuse of the american system, where the victims whose help the defence claims to steal are actually - if i may say so - the cash cow of the legal profession. and clearly no one in this house wants to see european competition law engage in such action. you have announced a white paper, you have announced an impact study: once again we will examine your proposals in a spirit of contribution, with the intention of improving, through these proposals, the capacity of competition law to address the concerns of citizens and to respond to what they can normally expect from the correct application of competition law. but again, and i am not the first to say this tonight, anything which might lead us into a drift from the procedures which help to feed professions which, by the way, find many other ways of making a profit, would not have our support. it is in this spirit of openness and in the concern often shown in this house to defend the rights of consumers that we will support and consider your proposals.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to call on all the groups to reject this urgent request, which is completely unnecessary. on the one hand, we are talking about a regulation which will not apply until 1 january 2009, and on the other hand, the committee on agriculture is doing its job perfectly. it has raised this issue at its last meeting and will raise it again on 7 and 8 may to make progress in the discussions we are having with the council. there are still two plenary sessions left here in strasbourg before the end of the german presidency in particular, and we have got things under control. we are continuing the discussions. there is therefore no need to respond favourably to this request for urgency from the council.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the discharge to the agencies, i would first like to make a number of observations. the first is that the number of agencies is constantly increasing and this increase is worrying because it seems to be happening outside any framework of overall orientation. this situation raises various problems, including the financial control of these agencies and the weaknesses in their organisation, which are not always resolved. as regards the first aspect, i think it is essential to establish clear rules in the discharge procedure. of the 35 agencies, 16 are now the subject of individual discharge by parliament. in order to avoid the current inconsistencies in the application of article 185 of the financial regulation, since many agencies are still subject to a general discharge under the general budget of the european commission, it would be appropriate in the future for all agencies, irrespective of their status, to be subject to a separate discharge from the european parliament. the second aspect i would like to mention concerns the effective functioning of the agencies. although some progress has been made in this area, it is still not enough. the first priority is to strengthen accounting systems, ensure the proper application of tender procedures and internal control rules and finally make recruitment procedures more transparent. at the same time, the commission must continue its efforts to increase the visibility of the agencies by developing an effective communication strategy, to develop synergies and to provide them with more technical and administrative services adapted to their needs. i also support the two proposals to make it compulsory to publish a cost-benefit study before the creation of any agency, and to require the preparation of an evaluation report every five years on the added value generated by each agency in its field of activity. these two proposals are essential to ensure that the activities developed by the agencies meet the specific needs of the different sectors. in conclusion, i would like to stress that, although the court of auditors has expressed reservations on three of them, i welcome the fact that the agencies as a whole have made progress compared to 2004 and i invite them to continue their efforts in this direction.
in writing. aids is the most global epidemic in history, affecting all lands, all social classes, all ages. now, one person is infected every six seconds. the european parliament must give fresh impetus to a mobilization which is running out of steam and i welcome the own-initiative report we are voting on today. aids is being forgotten, but it is not forgetting us, it is growing especially among young people, women, migrant populations and in the new member states of the union. young europeans are becoming less vigilant, and seem to confuse existing treatments with a cure. let us remember that aids is still killing. the disease knows no borders, and more than ever our solidarity must be transnational. i am therefore pleased that the report calls for european action in the areas of prevention, information and research, but also for global action, through the neighbourhood policy and the tacis programme. the fight against aids is not just a fight against a pandemic, it is also a fight for sexual health and rights, and also for women's rights. this is not just a common political action, it is a universal duty.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report before you is the result of a long process of consultation with the council of ministers and the commission to secure a vote at first reading. i therefore urge you to vote for it. i would ask you, however, to reject the amendment to article 71, which has nothing to do with the draft directive. this is in fact a question of data protection in the swift system in particular and in this connection i must inform our colleagues that yesterday in the debate the commission indicated that it would be working to ensure that data security is ensured. i have just received a letter from the german presidency supporting this position. i therefore ask you to reject the amendment to rule 71. i am, however, in favour of the oral amendment which will be tabled by mrs berès when the vote on the legislative resolution is taken. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the drafting of this report, the committee, the non-attached rapporteurs and the rapporteurs for opinions, and all the technical collaborators who have assisted me.
mr president, in agreement with the rapporteur, i would like to propose an oral amendment to this report which would allow the addition of a footnote, the text of which i am reading to you: 'having regard to the letter sent to the president of the european parliament on 1 march 2007 by the chairman of the working party set up under article 29 of directive 95/46/ec on data protection issues, in particular in the operation of the swift system, i would ask you to have this oral amendment to the excellent draft report by our colleague, mr jean-paul gauzès, approved by this house.
in writing. i have tried to support the following amendments. amendments nos 25, 20 and 28 because adequate funding for regional policy is needed to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between regions and to carry out future enlargements. amendments nos 22 and 39 because i do not think it is acceptable to talk about 'a special form of eu accession', 'a progressive concept' of regional policy exclusively for this country or to envisage, at this stage, any other outcome to the negotiations currently under way with turkey than accession. amendments nos 14 and 24 because the increase in national co-financing in regions which have benefited from structural funds for several programmes, as proposed by the rapporteur, would condemn the continuation of this policy in the most backward regions of the former member states. i am against the rapporteur's overly accounting approach, which proposes a maximum period for the collection of structural funds by the regions. in my view, it is precisely those regions which suffer from natural or human handicaps or from difficult economic conversion and which are not really equipped to face global competition that need to continue to be helped by the structural funds.
in writing. territorial cohesion in europe aimed at reducing inter- and intra-regional disparities is a fundamental objective of the european union. i welcome the adoption today of this report which raises the question of the absorption capacity of the european union and which states, in particular, that in the present state of the union's resources system, possible future enlargements could not be financed without undermining the effectiveness of the current cohesion policies. in this context, the rationalization of regional expenditure is necessary. institutional, financial and political reform is desirable in the context of a review of the community financial framework. moreover, an honest and effective cohesion policy is impossible without an increase in the budget of the european union.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr jacques barrot, ladies and gentlemen, i will begin by saying that port state control is a key element of maritime safety, because it is preventive and it makes it possible to detect the main anomalies on board a ship. in addition, we europeans carry out very thorough checks in accordance with our standards, regardless of the flag of the ship, which gives it a high degree of reliability. the directive we are working on dates back to 2001 and made it possible to impose on member states an obligation to check 25% of the vessels calling at their ports. to reach this figure, checks are too often carried out on ships in good condition; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant exemptions from the general rules on the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the most dangerous vessels are inspected first. this is the strong and new element of the inspection regime that i support: to inspect 100% of the vessels, depending on the risk they actually represent. i propose that inspections be modulated according to the risk profile to be established for each ship. three profiles should be used: low, normal or high, a result established from parameters defined in the report. these risk profiles will determine the intervals between inspections, which may not exceed six months for high risk ships. and the scope of the inspections is again detailed in the report. our objective is simple but clear: to eradicate the polluting garbage ships. to this end, we are proposing more coercive measures to hold maritime transport actors to account. the text therefore provides for stronger measures, such as the refusal of access to port and anchorage for dangerous vessels, and introduces the permanent ban on certain dangerous vessels. i would like to make it clear that we want shipping companies to respect european rules. today, some are still too neglectful; this is one of the reasons why we are proposing to establish a blacklist of low-performing companies, which will be published on the internet. i would like to stress, however, that there has been a broad convergence of views on all these proposals, even though the report is much more ambitious than it was originally. we have decided, with the support of the european commission - which i would like to thank for its work - to move to a higher speed, so that our control system remains an example at international level. that is why we must accept the rules adopted in the paris memorandum of understanding, in order to strengthen the european union's position in negotiations with other states, in particular russia and canada. the council has generally welcomed the report and i would like to thank the successive presidents who have taken the matter forward. however, i see two major points of divergence. the first is the application of the directive to anchorages, particularly those on the high seas. i insist on this, otherwise i fear that ships at risk will avoid ports to go to anchorages and thus escape inspection. the council is opposed to it because it fears high costs and difficult implementation. i ask the question: is this not the price to be paid for greater maritime safety? we don't have to wait for the next disaster to accept it! the second is the question of flexibility: the council wants flexibility in carrying out inspections. i agree that it is possible to postpone a planned inspection in a port to the next port of call, but i do not want to set a figure for missed inspections. i refuse to see the stated objective of 100% inspection of ships not being achieved. the negotiations will continue and i am confident that we can reach a rapid agreement with the council. the unanimous vote in the committee on transport underlines the great convergence of views between us, which reminds us that our assembly has always been very committed and united in defending and developing maritime safety. with the determination of our commissioner, jacques barrot, the support of our assembly and a consensus on the essentials in the council, i am convinced, madam president, that we will succeed in adopting this new regime of port state control quickly.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the transport sector is vital to the development of our societies. in this sector, shipping is gaining momentum every year and could bring real environmental and economic improvement. however, for the last thirty years, shipwrecks of ships laden with crude oil, heavy fuel or chemicals have been increasing off the eu coast, with dramatic consequences for economic and leisure activities linked to the sea such as fishing, oyster farming, tourism, yachting and many others. a shipwreck occurs every three days. 1,600 sailors go missing at sea every year. more than 6,000 ships officially classified as dangerous are sailing the oceans every day. this is unacceptable! serious action requires a vigorous tackling of the root cause of maritime insecurity. the flags of convenience and the tax havens that shelter and protect them, the criminal complicity between the classification societies and the insurance companies, are what are responsible for the garbage ships, served by crews of sailors reduced to a state of virtual slavery. in view of this, inspections in union ports should cover not only the condition of the vessels but also the situation of the crews, in order to verify that their training, working conditions, remuneration and health are compatible with the safety requirements for navigation. commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, would you board an aircraft whose crew is unable to communicate in a common language, whose pilot has not been paid for three months and whose co-pilot has not had a rest period for six months? of course not! then why accept it for a ship? another important point is that the creation of an independent authority to take the place of the member states in managing maritime crisis situations is inadequate, inefficient, dangerous and undemocratic. the record of most of the independent authorities in the union, starting with the ecb, is so disastrous for all the peoples of europe that i would not leave the responsibility for maritime security off my city of calais to a pseudo-independent body whose sole purpose is, as usual, to protect the financial interests of a few large companies. the last point: it concerns the fitting out of fishing vessels with an anti-collision system, at a cost of eur 2 000. could this cost be borne by the charterers and in particular by the charterers of oil tankers?
on behalf of the its group. madam president, commissioner jacques barrot, colleagues, as a french elected representative of the large north-west region, a region with many maritime facades, i am naturally concerned about maritime safety issues. i therefore fully support the commission's initiative to create, on the basis of a body of legislation, a defence mechanism to protect europe from the risks of pollution and accidents at sea. in fact, despite the progress made since the erika and prestige disasters - with, for example, compulsory inspections of ships in ports or the disappearance of single-hull oil tankers - i think that the accident prevention system is still insufficient. this sad fact is unfortunately shared by the seafarers' trade unions, environmental associations and elected officials of all stripes. this is particularly the case with the complacency flags, which, despite the desire of the commission and this parliament to reform them, are still far too numerous. almost 60% of the world fleet is still sailing under a free flag, which offers, in addition to the benefit of minimal taxation, the possibility of multiplying intermediaries in order to escape any liability in the event of an accident or disaster. it also allows the greatest laxity in matters of ship safety and labour law. finally, maritime safety should obviously be based on a trio of responsibilities: that of the flag state, that of the shipowner and that of the so-called classification societies, which are responsible for the expertise of the vessels. such measures are certainly included in the third maritime safety package. but we hope that they will be implemented, which is unfortunately not always the case.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i myself happened to be the rapporteur for the first part of this maritime package at the last partsession in march, since we had decided to discuss martha vincenzi's report on the state of the flag and my report on civil liability. i think it is very important to reaffirm today that this is indeed a comprehensive package and to send the message to the council that it must not play the horace and the curiace. we want to remain very consistent, and i hope we will succeed, because this package is a set of extremely important and particularly exemplary texts. we shall be discussing texts on maritime safety in cold weather, i.e. outside the pressure of catastrophic events. i have experienced the two preceding ones, here in this house, either with the erika or with the prestige. i have also experienced the sometimes hypocritical interpellation of the member states pointing out the shortcomings of europe: but what is europe doing? it is europe's fault that there is so much imprudence, it is europe's fault that ships are allowed to sail in this state, it is europe's fault that it is unable to compensate for the resulting ecological disasters. if we are going to complete the exercise to which we are invited today, it will not be europe's fault but the fault of the member states, whose first two packages have shown that when they are told that they are "lacking" in legislation, they are much less enthusiastic and the application of the texts is much more laborious. so we have a package of seven particularly coherent pieces of legislation in a european maritime environment which is, it must be said, probably one of the most fragile and risky in the world. we have a complicated geography and areas of risk: the calais strait - the increase in traffic in the calais strait has created and continues to create major accidents - the baltic and the sound, the bosphorus, not to mention gibraltar. we are also one of the world's leading maritime powers, probably the first, although china is now overtaking us. it is therefore absolutely essential that we have a strong legal framework to protect europe and to send a signal to everyone that we have security requirements and that these requirements are first and foremost preventive. we do not want to make shipowners pay for their mistakes and make them pay for them, but we want shipowners, like all shipping operators, to be much more cautious and to know that they will be put under pressure by their insurers, by all the partners, so that they are extremely rigorous and take as little risk as possible. the accident will always exist, but i think we will be proud of having done our utmost, while remaining within the framework of the international law of the international maritime organization, to have a european area of exemplary maritime law.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you for an interesting debate. the importance of safety regulations in the maritime sector has been emphasized by consensus. the rapporteur has also stressed this importance, not only in connection with the recent shipwreck in greece, but in the past. so the question is how we can improve prevention and act sensibly in an accident situation. before i go into the details, i should like to say that on the one hand i fully understand that parliament is here to discuss all the proposals together and perhaps to decide on them. on the other hand, we are moving at very different speeds in the council with regard to the agreement on the individual proposals for directives. perhaps we should adopt a pragmatic approach here too, by deciding in the council what is ready for adoption with the consent of the european parliament and adopting at a later date what is still to be regulated. this would be a sensible guideline if we want to make progress in the field of security, perhaps also in the council, under the slogan 'doing what is possible and acting pragmatically'. i would like to make a few points, particularly on the subject of control of ships, which has been discussed at length here. i would point out that the paris memorandum of understanding provides for the abolition of controls on 25% of vessels and therefore includes a risk approach. this risk approach is naturally related to and classified by the risks associated with the vessels. the approach proposed in the paris memorandum of understanding is therefore very close to your ideas. the most important thing is that this memorandum of understanding also includes russia and canada. one of the last speakers referred to the baltic sea. that is why it is very important that the russian nation state should support this declaration of intent. the second point concerns the emergency shelters. this subject has also been discussed at length here. the question of what an independent authority is and how the allocation will be made is certainly a question of finding a pragmatic solution. the question of jurisdiction needs to be clarified. however, there is also a broad consensus that emergency berths must be available everywhere. the question is how they are documented and published. we will be able to solve this together, because there are no differences in substance, but only in the question of who is in charge of what. this must be discussed with the member states. the question is also how we can ensure that there is an independent institution and thus an independent inquiry into maritime accidents. we shall certainly make progress in this area too under the presidency. it is reasonable and necessary to make an independent decision on the investigation and the differentiated publication of the results. it has been pointed out - and i very much support this - that the issue of maritime safety is not just about technical standards - about monitoring and intelligence systems - but also about the quality of work on board ships. i therefore stressed at the beginning of my speech that the ilo maritime labour convention is very important to us. the implementation of this working agreement is an important form of quality assurance on board, because it is not only a question of ensuring that the workers who work there have a certain qualification, but also that the quality of the work of the people ensures safety on board. this is also an important safety aspect which is not covered in this package but is supplemented elsewhere in this package. i am therefore pleased that we are making progress in the individual member states of the european union, particularly in connection with this maritime labour convention, to ensure a rapid implementation of the ilo minimum standards, which are applicable worldwide and therefore also to ships calling at a european port. all in all, this was a very important debate. they will decide on each proposal in the next few days and we shall see how far we can get closer. i hope that we can deal with this package and the other dossiers which are not yet on the council's agenda soon. i believe that we are all committed to setting the signals for safety on the high seas by june, in the context of the council presidency.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would like to thank each and every member of parliament, and i also thank mrs roth, and i thank her, because this debate was very rich. i am not going to answer all the speakers, but we have taken a lot of notes and i thank each of you. i will take, mr president, first port state control. i would like to thank mrs vlasto for her work. it proposes to rally you to the principle of a community objective of inspection of all ships, more or less frequent according to the risks they present. i welcome the very broad support for the other elements of the commission's proposal, in particular the inspection of ships at berth and the strengthening of the banishing rules. i would also point out that port state control makes it possible to check the application of certain ilo conventions, particularly on working time. i am glad that the minister has brought this up. i always come back to port state control. you propose to take account now of the technical work carried out under the paris memorandum to clarify the detailed rules for the application of the new system. the commission can easily follow parliament on this point and accept all or at least a very large part of the amendments in principle. the text we have proposed will make this clearer. you also propose, with amendment no 17, to add a definition of ports. why not? why not? but then it must be linked with the definition of anchorages and it must be made clear in article 3 (1), which deals with the scope of the directive, that inspections in anchorages will be targeted at the vessels most at risk. the only point of disagreement between us on this text on port state control is contained in articles 34, 36 and 37. you do not provide for flexibility in the conduct of inspections, which is the flexibility of the current directive. i understand parliament's concern about very strict controls on the conduct of inspections, but a minimum of flexibility is essential for the new inspection regime to function properly. that is why i welcome amendment no 115 which introduces more flexibility for inspections in anchorages. in addition, although this is a more technical point, i still believe that the reinforced inspections should be carried out on vessels from the age of 12 and not from the age of 15, as suggested in amendment no 107. that is all for this first text on port state control. i now turn to mr sterckx, whom i thank very much for his support, and i refer to the proposal to amend the directive on the monitoring of maritime traffic, particularly as regards the question of places of refuge. i would also like to make it clear that when we speak of an independent body for places of refuge, we are not talking about a community body. it is up to the member states to set up such bodies at national level. what we care about is their independence. in amendments nos 31, 32 and 33 you suggest a slightly different presentation of two basic principles. first, that ships in distress be accommodated in a place of refuge. the refusal is possible, but it must remain the exception, based on an objective assessment of the situation, on the basis of the elements contained in the emergency plan drawn up in advance. secondly, the decision must be taken by an independent authority, free from political and economic pressure. i can accept this presentation as an improvement on our original proposal. on the other hand, i am not in favour of amendments nos 55 and 56 concerning the establishment of environmental and human maps of the coastline, since the commission has already proposed that the description of environmental and social factors should be part of the constituent elements of a 'place of refuge' plan. the commission may also accept, subject to their wording, a number of additions which it considers very useful. for example, on full compensation for economic damage, amendment no 41. the central role of safeseanet, which must be able to operate 24 hours a day, amendments nos 64 and 65. the establishment of a european centre for the management of long-distance messages from ships for the purposes of maritime safety and security amendments nos 13, 14, 20, 24 and 41. or the notification of bunker oil, amendments nos 62 and 63. i also fully support amendment no 66, which seeks to prevent the risk of abuse in the dissemination of navigation data and which is clearly an improvement on the previous version of this amendment. finally, as regards comitology, and in response to amendments nos 58, 59, 60 and 61, i would point out that the commission will, if necessary, adjust its proposals to take account of the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny. there is, however, something i cannot accept. the commission has proposed that fishing vessels over 15 metres be equipped with automatic identification systems of ais to prevent the risk of collision. by limiting this compulsory equipment to fishing vessels of more than 24 metres in length, i fear that this provision will be deprived of a large part of its scope, and i insist on this before parliament, because we consider the protection of human life to be essential. there are now accidents involving boats of less than 24 metres in length and it is a pity to deprive ourselves of this possibility. i would like to thank you again for the proposal you have drawn up. i come now to the proposal which mr kohlíček has dealt with: accident investigations. i see parliament's full support here too and i am prepared to accept many amendments which clarify or improve the text. for example, by setting a deadline for the start of investigations, amendment no 12. as regards the scope of the amendment, amendment no 25, which aims to remove any limitation on fishing vessels, would have the effect of increasing considerably the burden on the administrations concerned. the commission cannot accept that. i also have difficulties with amendments nos 1 and 14, which, while emphasizing the resources of the investigative bodies, remove their permanence and weaken the provisions on their independence, which is an essential guarantee of the quality of investigations. on the other hand, i am in full agreement with amendment no 26. the concern was also expressed in amendments nos 5, 9, 15 and 16 to further strengthen the separation between technical investigations and judicial investigations, particularly criminal investigations. mrs wortmann-kool has stressed this point. the commission recognises the need to minimise interference between these two types of procedure, but in this respect it is necessary to take account of the different legal traditions of the member states. i therefore propose that parliament should maintain the balance by affirming the principle that the two types of inquiry should be conducted independently of each other while preserving the prerogatives of the judge where appropriate. finally, there is the question of incorporating the imo guidelines on the fair treatment of seafarers, adopted in 2006, into the proposal for a directive, i am referring to amendment no 22. the commission is of course sensitive to this. however, these directives go far beyond the field of investigations alone and care will have to be taken in the references which may be introduced into the text. i come now to the proposal on compensation for accident victims. i thank mr costa for his full support of the commission's proposal. i welcome the fact that the committee on transport and tourism has followed the rapporteur's approach and i now count on the support of the whole of parliament. i am in favour of amendment no 8: it very usefully introduces a new rule that competing conventions which would have the effect of reducing compensation paid to victims and creating disparate systems coexisting in the union will be excluded. i also support amendments nos 13, 14, 15 which provide for the gradual implementation of the regulation, to take account of the difficulties of adaptation of the various sectors, such as scheduled ferry lines and inland waterway transport. it is a pragmatic solution, and it is entirely reasonable. amendments nos 16 and 27 are aimed at simply excluding inland waterway transport from the scope. if this were to be the case, the applicable law would remain a patchwork of national rules, most of which are inadequate, offering no real protection to victims of shipwreck. i will also answer this question, because i have felt a great hesitation in parliament about extending the scope to water transport. fortunately, accidents on waterways are rare, but they do happen: 50 deaths in the case of the marchioness on the thames in 1989, 20 deaths - mostly elderly people - in the case of the oca on lake banyoles in spain in 1999. certainly some may be covered by the ilci, the convention on the limitation of liability for inland navigation. but beware, this convention has a scope of application that today is limited to the rhine and the moselle; it is therefore not relevant to other rivers and lakes in europe. secondly, i would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the limits for compensation are very low, with little prospect of increase. no system of faultless liability in the event of a shipping accident, no compulsory insurance, no direct action with insurers, all of which allows me to say, after careful consideration, that inland navigation must be kept within the scope of this new system of compensation for victims of accidents. it seems to me, moreover, that it is difficult to justify amendment no 9, which seeks to limit the payment of advances to cases where the carrier is liable without fault, that is to say only in the event of a shipping incident, such as a shipwreck, and not in the case of an incident such as a hotel, where a passenger falls onto the deck. that's it for mr costa's report on compensation for accident victims. mr president, forgive me if i am a little long, but i have to be specific because the work of parliament has been substantial. it is therefore logical that the commission should make its views clear. this is the condition for a good dialogue between parliament and the commission, under the watchful eye of the presidency, which i thank for following the debate so closely from the beginning. i come now to mr grandes pascual's report on the proposal on classification societies. it must be said that most of the amendments, mr pascual, make the text clearer and complement it effectively, whether it is a question of evaluating in due course the operation of the mechanism for mutual recognition of classification certificates or of drawing any possible legislative consequences from it, i am talking about amendment no 53. as i have said, a key aspect of the proposal concerns the system of quality control of classification societies authorized to operate in the community. parliament called for the certification body to be set up by the member states and approved companies: amendments nos 58 and 74. while accepting the principle of these amendments, the commission considers that the involvement of the member states requires the use of the comitology mechanism, which provides a clear and precise legal way. amendment no 73 would also weaken the commission's ability to assess and correct the functioning of this body. so she can only refuse. more generally, as regards comitology and in response to amendments nos 11 and 36, i would point out that the commission will, if necessary, adjust its proposals to take account of the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny. finally, i should like to express our serious doubts about certain amendments concerning the civil liability of approved bodies: amendments nos 28, 30 and 31. in the report the commission sent to you and to the council, we have shown that it is premature to tackle the reform of this system at this stage. we must remain cautious and not rush into a reform that could make victims even more vulnerable. i am thinking in particular of the trap of automatically extending to approved bodies the protections and immunities enjoyed by the flag state for which they work. i think that there is a difference between the flag state and the accredited classification body and that while in one case immunity can be understood, in the other it is still quite questionable. it would be ignored that these bodies are working for the shipowners at the same time, in a strictly private relationship, and that such immunity from jurisdiction, such protection, would be quite exorbitant. the main points i have to make on all the amendments are as follows. a complete list of the amendments and the commission's position will be sent to you and to the parliament's secretariat. i would like to conclude by thanking parliament again. one of you said that europe must be the world leader in safety standards. that's a great phrase. mr. evans used it. i thank him for that. it was also recalled earlier that this package was coherent and that the european maritime area was particularly fragile, with a number of straits, with the baltic sea and the black sea, and that this requires a sufficiently solid legal framework. it is not a question of criminalising at all costs, but of preventing. that's what's important to us. i am also convinced that european armaments, or rather the national armaments of our member states, will be able to compete in the world market with better quality. i am deeply convinced of that. there is no contradiction between the quest for higher quality in national armaments in europe and their competitiveness in world competition. that is what i wanted to say, mr president, and i thank parliament very much for the quality of this debate and the work that has been done.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) (com (2007) 0267). the commission can accept amendments nos 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. the commission can accept amendment no 1 in part. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 4, 9, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept amendments nos 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18, 22, 25, 29, 32, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 59, 60, 61, 63, 66, 68, 70 and 72. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the opportunity to present its proposal to the council. the commission can accept in principle amendments nos 11, 36 and 69. the commission can accept amendments nos 1, 4, 8, 16, 26, 45, 58, 62, 64, 65, 71 and 74 in part. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 14, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 27, 28, 30, 31, 33, 46, 47, 48, 49, 57, 67, 73 and 75. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept amendments nos 3, 4, 11, 12, 15, 17, 21, 24 and 26. the commission can accept amendments nos 5, 8, 9, 10 and 22 in principle. the commission can accept amendments nos 7 and 20 in part. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1, 2, 6, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23 and 25. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the commission can accept amendments nos 5, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 20, 22, 24, 25, 27, 30, 31, 33, 34, 36, 38, 39, 40, 42, 62, 63, 64, 65 and 66 which are not in the text. the commission can accept in principle amendments nos 1, 4, 7, 9, 10, 16, 19, 26, 28, 29, 32, 35, 37, 41, 43, 48, 58, 59, 60 and 61. the commission can accept amendments nos 15 and 49 in part. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 2, 3, 6, 11, 21, 23, 44, 45, 46, 47, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 and 57. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept amendments nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 32, 33, 38, 47, 52, 53, 59, 60, 62, 64, 65, 66, 67, 72, 74, 76, 78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 90, 94, 95, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 104, 105, 106, 108, 113 and 115. the commission has also accepted amendments nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 32, 33, 38, 47, 52, 53, 59, 60, 62, 64, 65, 66, 67, 72, 74, 76, 78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 90, 95, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 104, 105, 106, 108, 113 and 115, which are intended to amend the text of the proposal. the commission can accept in principle amendments nos 2, 9, 13, 17, 25, 30, 39, 41, 43, 44, 45, 48, 49, 50, 51, 54, 57, 58, 61, 63, 69, 75, 77, 88, 89, 92, 103, 110 and 114, which are not in the same spirit as the amendments which have been tabled. the commission can accept in part amendments nos 6, 10, 12, 21, 26, 29, 31, 34, 35, 36, 37, 40, 42, 46, 56, 68, 70, 71, 93, 96, 107, 109, 111 and 116, which are not in the same spirit as the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 11, 73, 82 and 91. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, commissioner, a single market, a single currency and even the sky, which is now becoming a single sky, are the confirmation that the construction of europe is a legal, financial and economic monotheism, with the obvious power of expansion of all monotheisms. we see this in the council's finally positive decision on a multilateral agreement to create a common european airspace for the union, the balkan countries, iceland and norway, i.e. 37 countries if i count correctly. this legal corpus, which is once again positive, is a multilateral agreement: 35 articles, 4 annexes, 8 protocols. national laws are aligned. we are creating a common air transport market and, my god, the sky is uniting faster than the earth. there is only one agreement which creates a continental air law on five main chapters: the right of establishment, aviation security in article 11, aviation security especially in times of terrorism, of potential illegal catches, traffic management and, of course, competition, with state aid, public procurement, the marketing of goods. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for once, we can only welcome something that should make life easier for both societies and individuals.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all the speakers and in particular mr costa for his report. clearly, a better balance between safety requirements and operational aspects is indeed a challenge for all of us. that is why we need a new framework regulation, which is simplified and more flexible, and i stress that. i'm gonna answer a few questions before i get to the financing. mr el khadraoui, the commission is making every effort to inform the european parliament regularly and you will have a very good chance of getting the information you need. the commission has already taken the initiative of holding a hearing of experts in the next few days. i think that is the right way to try to understand and get some information from those who have been at the origin of these arrangements. mr. bradbourn, i'd like to tell you that we're actively working on the duty-free issues. i hope that in a few weeks' time i can give you some answers on this point. he is not here, but i am addressing all members of parliament. i come now to the problem of funding. first of all, i would like to say that i fully understand the position of the commission and of mr costa. i think that we must also try to avoid distortions of competition. that makes perfect sense to me. i agree with mr jarzembowski that we must try to find a compromise. however, the council of finance ministers must of course be counted on. the ministers for transport do not make the law in this area. so that's where we run into a problem. what i take away from this exchange between us is your willingness to demand transparency on security costs. i can't argue with that. i believe that there is a real need for transparency on security costs, which should be at least a first step. what i can tell you is that we need this regulation, i have explained it to you. i would not, however, like all this to lead to a complete misunderstanding on both sides between the council and parliament. the commission will, however, play its role of good offices and we will try to find a solution, mr president, as far as possible, because in the field of security we must have the right tools and the appropriate tools. that is why i am somewhat insisting on the adoption of this revised proposal, while recognizing the validity of parliament's approach which requires, in fact, more transparency, fairer competition and, as far as possible, an effort at harmonization on the part of the states in the matter of financing.
in writing. the commission proposal introduces provisions which will allow for a certain advance in aviation safety. however, the question of the financing of the security measures was not mentioned. the amendments we adopted in the committee on transport address this problem and provide for justified and balanced provisions. it would not be fair to put the entire cost of security measures on air passengers. it is desirable to avoid putting too much of a financial burden on users who already pay very high taxes on air tickets. i therefore believe that we must support the proposal for a mixed financing of safety measures, i.e. by both member states and users, and for financing of the more stringent measures at the expense of the states alone. i also support amendment no 33, which makes the extension of security measures conditional on a thorough assessment of the risks, costs and impact of these measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised by the fact that the safety of the aircraft is not guaranteed.
member of the commission. these were actually shoeprints, not footprints! mr president, honourable members, first of all, let me thank you for the constructive remarks made in the report and during the debate tonight. we all agree that today’s use of natural resources is not sustainable. indeed, the sustainable use of natural resources is a common challenge for all of us as policymakers, as companies and as citizens, both in europe but also globally. parliament has an essential role in leading this project and mobilising the necessary public support. today, more than one year after adoption of the communication, we have already made some progress. member states have endorsed the strategy and it is becoming a global benchmark promoted, for example, by the oecd. we are developing and moving forward with the implementation in an open, transparent and engaged way. your report and today’s discussion will now be taken into account in future actions. the use of natural resources policy is intimately linked to the way we produce our products and consume them. the forthcoming action plan on sustainable consumption and production will focus on the eco-design of products, on making procurement greener and on measures that help consumers make better choices. actions will start from food, housing and transport, the sectors with the highest environmental impacts. your other priorities will be tackled as well. we will promote best-practice approaches, innovative and eco-efficient solutions and the use of economic instruments. just one month ago the commission published a green paper on the use of market-based instruments in energy and environment policy, and i am committed to looking beyond gdp when we assess the economic, social and environmental progress of our societies. finally, i fully understand those of you who want to see more action and sooner, and i thank parliament for its proactive role in this. i also have a lot of sympathy for calls for more specific targets. as i highlighted earlier, a number of ambitious targets related to resource use are already in place, for example the strategy’s over-arching goal to decouple negative environmental impacts from growth on a european and global scale. this is arguably a very ambitious target and is formally endorsed by the commission and the council. we will assess the need to set an overall target for resource efficiency in the context of the review of the resource strategy planned for 2010. the resource strategy is a big step forward, tackling environmental impacts in a lifecycle approach.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on transatlantic relations.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. by acting together, the european union and the united states of america can be a powerful force for the good of the world. i quote from the european security strategy. the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the eu is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. this applies to politics and economics as well as to energy security and climate protection. this is also the message of the eu-us summit in washington on 30 april. it is good that we are exchanging views today, a few days before the summit, and that we are sending this important signal from the european parliament. the european parliament plays an active role in transatlantic relations. i would just like to mention the transatlantic legislators' dialogue, which is an important part of the network of bilateral links linking both sides of the atlantic at many different levels. i would like to thank you, mr president, and the whole house, for your commitment. the eu continues to regard the united states as the partner with which it has the closest and most diverse relations. the transatlantic relationship is built on a solid foundation, a foundation of shared historical experience, very similar interests and, above all, shared values: freedom, democracy, the rule of law and tolerance. experience has shown that this base sometimes put to the test can withstand a lot. the importance of continuously renewing and sustaining transatlantic relations is therefore all the greater. i believe that concrete joint action is the most sustainable way of underpinning the importance of transatlantic cooperation for the future. the transatlantic partnership is not limited to bilateral issues, but has a strong global dimension. there is hardly a crisis - from afghanistan to iran to kosovo - where the transatlantic partners do not work together to find solutions. while we largely agree on the analysis of the key threats and challenges and on the basic objectives of our policy, there have been and are continuing to be differences between the eu and the us in terms of priorities, as well as instruments and methods. this will continue to be the case, and it would be unrealistic to expect that we will always be on a line. we do not avoid difficult subjects, but we are in intensive dialogue with the united states on these very issues. we will not depart from our position that counter-terrorism measures must be fully consistent with our international obligations, including human rights, refugee law and international humanitarian law, and must be based on our shared values. the european parliament has repeatedly made very clear its views on these issues and we will continue to raise them in our discussions with our american partners. it is crucial that we do not allow ourselves to be divided on these issues, because a close partnership between the eu and the us is indispensable for both sides. this should also be the signal for the forthcoming eu-us summit in washington on 30 april. in addition to cooperation on political and security issues, the focus will be on strengthening the transatlantic economy and intensifying cooperation on climate change and energy policy. on the sidelines of this summit, we will sign the eu-us aviation agreement, another important step towards liberalising transatlantic markets. citizens and businesses will benefit from this. in this context, the mobility of our citizens also seems to me to be an important factor. as you know, citizens of 12 eu countries still need a visa, even for short stays in the usa. the presidency is strongly committed to ensuring that all eu citizens benefit from the us visa waiver programme in the future. this will also be the subject of the summit. i would like to stress this again at this point because in the past few days there has been some irritation in certain member states as to whether the presidency might not want this. i would like to stress, in agreement with the following presidencies: we want to include all member states in the us visa waiver program. the united states and the european union are already the most closely intertwined economic areas in the world. we believe - and i know that many of you share this view - that the potential of economic cooperation is far from being fully exploited. the different regulatory approaches in the eu and the us create unnecessary transaction costs and further reduction of non-tariff barriers to trade is urgently needed. we therefore want to launch an initiative at the eu-us summit to strengthen the transatlantic economy. the initiative is based on a mutual political commitment to deepen cooperation with the aim of regulatory convergence and further intensifying economic interconnection. we want to try to give new impetus to cooperation in a whole range of areas, such as investment conditions, financial regulation, new industrial technologies and intellectual property. we expect to be able to put together an ambitious package that will give a new impetus to transatlantic economic cooperation. i would like to stress one thing: this initiative is not specifically directed against multilateral efforts to facilitate trade. it is intended to complement them and to support the successful conclusion of the doha round. the summit will also focus on energy security and climate change, which the presidency sees as key issues for the transatlantic future. we agreed on far-reaching climate targets and adopted an energy action plan at the spring summit on 8 and 9 march. in the light of these decisions, we intend to use the eu-us summit to intensify our cooperation with the us in these areas. i do not need to stress it too much in this circle. there have been repeated differences of opinion, including fundamental ones, between the eu and the us over the last years and decades, especially on climate protection issues. but i think it is not a misconception that there has been a lot of movement in the united states in this regard. the us side is also keen to intensify cooperation with the eu, particularly on research and technology cooperation. our aim must be to pool our efforts and radically shorten the innovation cycles for new processes and technologies, not least because this is also an important market of the future. the transatlantic partners must take the lead here in our own best interests. i say this also in view of the european research landscape and the influential role of your house here. i am convinced that energy security and climate protection are one of the transatlantic projects of the 21st century! peaceful and stable development in all parts of the world is a basic prerequisite for security and prosperity in europe and america. we therefore want to use the eu-us summit as a last but not least way of sending a signal of the greatest possible unity on foreign and security policy. in the middle east conflict, by reviving the quartet - i want to be very careful here - we have opened the door to a solution at least a little bit wider. we have succeeded in maintaining the unity of the international community in the face of iran and its nuclear programme - a basic prerequisite in my view if we are to reach a mutually agreeable solution with iran. we are working closely with nato and the united states to stabilise the civil-military situation in afghanistan. we want to intensify this cooperation further, particularly in the field of police training. the same applies to the planned esdp mission in kosovo. this is only a fraction of the international issues that require close transatlantic coordination. the european union has a duty to protect its citizens. it says: 'no country is in a position to solve the complex problems of today alone.' that is true of the eu, it is true of the united states. only if we succeed in pooling the weight, the experience and the possibilities of europe and america and in mobilizing the best forces and ideas will we find viable answers for our common future and the future of generations to come.
member of the commission. first of all, i would like to apologize for the absence of my colleague, mrs ferrero-waldner. she had to leave for the funeral of the former president of the russian federation, boris yeltsin. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu-us summit on 30 april will be a new opportunity to strengthen political and economic ties with the united states. let me therefore briefly explain the objectives of this summit. firstly, we will work for transatlantic economic convergence. with 40% of total world trade, the economic relationship between the united states and the european union is one of the most important in the world. but they need new political impetus. the removal of barriers to trade and investment would be a great benefit to our consumers and businesses. the commission therefore welcomes the initiative of chancellor merkel, who has spoken in favour of a new and ambitious economic partnership between the european union and the united states. the legislative and regulatory bodies should be involved and the summit participants should assume the important role of monitoring and leadership. we will identify at the summit specific policy areas where we can make sustainable progress. these include regulatory cooperation in the areas of industrial goods, energy, innovation, financial markets and investment. secondly, in foreign policy we will explore a number of key areas of our common ground with the united states. in kosovo and afghanistan, we will continue to work closely together in the pursuit of stability, prosperity and the rule of law. as members of the middle east quartet, the european union and the united states are working together constructively to revive a political process between the leaders of the israeli and palestinian governments. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore in favour of the adoption of a new resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the commission has a special role to play in developing an international aid mechanism for the palestinian people to support them and improve their governance. another highlight of the summit will be the signing of the recently concluded and historic open air agreement between the european union and the united states, which will bring major economic benefits on both sides of the atlantic, estimated at eur 12 billion and creating some 80 000 new jobs. at the same time, we will reaffirm our commitment to the second stage of negotiations on a comprehensive agreement on air services, which will further enhance the economic benefits of liberalisation in this important sector. the preparations for the summit are not yet complete, and a central theme is climate change and energy. our aim is to commit the united states to a policy based on the goals of market mechanisms and clean technologies, and a global approach. the work on the european side builds on the european consensus reached at the european council on 9 march 2007 that we need to act globally to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the forthcoming summit should promote european-american cooperation in this field. i hope that the transatlantic summit declaration will prepare clear positions for the g8 and the un climate conference in bali in december 2007. we will also discuss energy security and energy efficiency issues and identify common objectives for the development of clean technologies and their use in the short and medium term. as regards visa policy, we will call on president bush at the eu-us summit to work towards visa-free entry for all eu citizens to the united states. the united states no longer requires a visa for citizens of the european union. we would very much welcome it if the us extended the abolition of this visa requirement to all eu member states and thus ended the de facto discrimination against eu citizens. we will also call on the united states to agree to a solution for the transfer of passenger data to the united states that meets the highest standards of data protection. this new framework is intended to replace the current transitional arrangements. we will of course also reaffirm the need for closer cooperation in the fight against terrorism, recalling our commitment that this effort must be in line with our obligations under international law. this is crucial for the credibility of joint action in this field. (applause from the centre)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, minister and representative of the presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i was born 60 years ago in alsace and belong to a generation which, having lived through it, can testify to the extent to which europeans are indebted to the americans. the very strong transatlantic links that unite our two continents are based on millions of personal stories that are similar to mine. they have helped to shape our history and our shared values. at the recent celebration of the 50th anniversary of the treaties of rome, the epp/ed group welcomed america's key role in the establishment of what would become the european union. without the support of the marshall plan and the decisive role played by the united states and canada in nato, the reconstruction of europe would probably not have been possible. even in difficult times, we have always believed in the vital importance of the transatlantic partnership, a partnership based on dialogue and respect. our group is the strongest supporter of close transatlantic relations in the european parliament. that is why i have requested that the first trip out of the union be to washington. the european parliament must develop stronger links with the us congress and administration in order to cooperate more upstream on issues of common interest. and i would like to propose here that the president of parliament invite the new speaker of the house of representatives to speak in plenary. i was pleased to learn that, like us, the u.s. congress has established a temporary committee on climate. i hope that these two committees will be able to cooperate closely. ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a common transatlantic market by 2015 is one of our priorities. we must reduce the burden of regulation, encourage competition and harmonize technical standards on both sides of the atlantic. let us have a binding roadmap, with a precise timetable, with 2015 as the deadline for the launch of a transatlantic market without barriers. the european parliament must be widely involved in this process, but as friends we also have a duty to speak frankly to each other and even to express criticism. as president kennedy observed in 1963, let us not ignore our differences, but let us also be interested in ways of resolving our differences. i would also like to stress my concern that stricter us customs controls could turn into disguised trade barriers. we must remain vigilant without compromising the integrity of trade. similarly, the us data protection legislation still leaves open the question of whether it fully respects privacy and civil liberties. europe is determined to fight terrorism and organised crime, but this fight must be based on the appropriate legal bases. respect for fundamental rights will only strengthen our action and influence in the world. we also share the commitment to create the conditions for stability, peace and prosperity in the european union's neighbourhood. we have already had positive cooperation in belarus, ukraine and kosovo. but we also need to act in africa. it is a moral and historical duty to give hope to the poorest of the poor. the genocide in darfur and the tyranny in zimbabwe show that we are not up to the challenge. we also need to persuade other nations such as china, india, brazil and south africa to join our efforts in developing countries. we must also bring the doha agreement to a successful conclusion, because it is the development cycle for the poorest countries. europe and the us must secure a comprehensive agreement as soon as possible. finally, our group believes in the possibility of a safer world. the proliferation of nuclear weapons has made the world a more dangerous place. we support a negotiated solution to the iranian nuclear issue. europeans and americans share common roots that have shaped much of our world. we must stand our ground in a world which has become multipolar, and as jean monnet said, together, americans and europeans defend a common civilization. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, what exactly does the transatlantic economic partnership hold for us? mrs merkel said it was not about free trade or a common market, but about market regulation, patent protection, harmonisation of rules and cooperation to improve global economic governance. the secretary of state, mr würmeling, was more direct in stating that the aim was to move towards a transatlantic market without barriers. the chancellor herself had suggested that the experience of the european single market could serve as a model for this new area. but is it necessary to recall the definition of the single market given by the commissioner responsible for monitoring it, mr mccreevy? as he pointed out, the single market 'is by far the most extensive exercise in deregulation in europe's recent history'. is this the kind of experience that should be generalized across the atlantic? the question is all the more worthy of being asked, since this project already has a tumultuous history. in march 1998, commissioner leon brittan, then a leading figure in liberal europe, launched the new transatlantic market project, modelled on the north american free trade agreement, nafta. at the same time, the draft multilateral investment agreement, the ami, was being negotiated in secret at the oecd, and was already aimed at cracking down on any legislation perceived by investors as a hindrance to their increasingly sprawling financial operations. these two projects aroused such a reaction in european opinion that they had to be abandoned. but since then, lobbies such as the transatlantic business dialogue have repeatedly brought this strategic project to the table in a new form. the adoption last year of american accounting standards and, more recently, the takeover of the european euronex stock exchanges by the new york stock exchange are part of this heavy trend. far from the image of constructive cooperation that we are being sold, this is indeed a major front in the battle over the design of europe's future. both its social model and its democratic identity are at stake. i would remind you that the report adopted by parliament on this subject last june deplored the fact that 'the relations between the union and the united states are burdened by political conflicts and are quite frequently characterized by grand declarations'. in the name of the common values of the transatlantic business dialogue, are we to be silent on the war in iraq or guantanamo? on the death penalty or the international criminal court? kyoto or gmos? on the personal data, the swift case, or the cia thefts? as the process leading to a new european treaty is under way, the nature of the relationship between the european union and the united states is a crucial issue that will need to be addressed clearly.
mr president, what we have been hearing this morning about the so-called transatlantic relations - a very misleading term because our capitals have very different relations with the united states - does not reassure us. in reality, this expression does not adequately conceal a relationship of subordination which, moreover, seems to me to be growing. we're giving in everywhere. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we must take to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the directive. i call on the member states to show washington, as france is trying to do with varying degrees of success, a little more dignity and a spirit of independence for the good of the whole of europe.
mr president, the committee on civil liberties sent a delegation last week, which proved very useful, to discuss visa exemption and data protection issues, particularly on the negotiation of a pnr agreement and the problems, of course, with swift. we can regret that, in order to get answers to questions which we had put to our institutions without result, we had to go to washington. the european parliament considers it essential to distinguish between the visa waiver negotiations and the pnr negotiations. the countries excluded from the visa exemption are being blackmailed. on these two subjects, no bilateral negotiations are acceptable. only agreements at the level of the european union can be envisaged. us citizens are protected by european data protection legislation but us legislation excludes europeans and does not allow them any recourse. so it seems to me that europe should propose negotiating a comprehensive agreement on the exchange and protection of personal data with the united states. we have a duty to protect our citizens' data.
before the votes, i have a request for an intervention on a procedural motion from mr watson.
mr watson, i think, has already expressed a broadly shared sentiment.
the green group is also in favour of the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, not only do we agree with mr geremek, but we have fought stalinism with mr geremek for years and it is unthinkable that today, ... (tumulte)... and that is why this parliament must be unyielding. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) can't you tell these lunatics to shut up?
ladies and gentlemen, mr cohn-bendit has the floor and your behaviour on this subject does not enhance parliament.
the green group is also in favour of the proposal. this parliament has only one position to take: if a government employs stalinist or fascist methods, we must protect our colleague without hesitation against all the madmen in this parliament. we are in solidarity. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been and will continue to be politically opposed to mr geremek. i am more than happy to express my deep respect for the political courage he has shown and to express my full solidarity with him on behalf of my group. (applause) i would like to thank
the chairman of the committee on legal affairs, mr gargani, has the floor. (protests)
president of the ppe-de group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply like to say that every member present, from whatever party, enjoys parliamentary immunity. we are a parliament and we follow the rules! at the moment, there is no request, there is no legal analysis, as mr gargani said. mr geremek has our full support and i can confirm that he also has the support of the european people's party. we respect the legal rules in this parliament, for all members! and also for mr. geremek! (applause) i would like to thank
the statements made are of a nature to clarify both the substance and the form of the case. ladies and gentlemen, we have not received any notification of this decision from the polish government today, which is more than questionable. the role of parliament is to guarantee and protect the parliamentary function of one of its own. what will happen is that i imagine the conference of presidents will have to debate this and the legal affairs committee, in the exact terms used by mr gargani, will be keen to ensure that parliament's independence is respected and so i consider this debate closed today. (protests) this debate is closed. we move on to the votes. (despite the president's orders, the protests continue)
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i am not going to go into the details of the matter, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
mr crowley, we could give the floor to each of the 765 members of this house on this subject. i gave the floor to the group chairmen and you spoke on behalf of your group.
president of the its group. i believe that as a group chairman i have no less rights than other people. our colleague mr cohn-bendit said that fascist and stalinist actions must be condemned. i think the whole problem in this case is precisely whether and to what extent mr geremek was complicit in the stalinist actions, in this most abominable totalitarianism. i note that the defence of the rights of members of parliament, which is no less dear to us than it is to you, is often variable in its geometry from your point of view. when jean-marie le pen was ousted after an unfair trial, after a ridiculous campaign incident, you invoked national sovereignty. when one of our colleagues, mr ruiz mateos, was prevented from taking the oath in spain because he was being prosecuted, you invoked national sovereignty. when gollnisch was prosecuted for his freedom of political expression, you refused to defend his immunity and invoked national sovereignty. hodie mihi, cras tibi, what happens to me today, is what happens to you! (applause from the group of the european right)
the conference of presidents will be seized of this matter. it will be discussed tomorrow morning and i think that the european parliament, by a very large majority, has expressed its support for mr geremek. once is not customary, since i am president, but i allow myself to give my full support too. (applause from the left)
very well, mr. goebbels, we will see to it.
i am pleased to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the context of interparliamentary relations, the knesset delegation, chaired by amira dotan, chairwoman of the delegation for relations with the european parliament, is visiting our parliament in the course of the next few days. i would like to extend a very warm welcome to mrs dotan and the members of her delegation. i would stress the importance we attach to such a visit. (applause) i would like to thank so they are on the left and i give them my friendly greeting.
amendment no 66 is, according to the analysis that has been made, covered by amendment no 127, which deals with the exemptions for hospitals. so we consider that things have been voted.
these amendments, mr rapporteur, have been covered by the first block.
the voting list is drawn up in accordance with the rules of procedure, but if the house has no objections, the rapporteur's wishes will be followed.
mr president, the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the basis of rule 170 (4) of our rules of procedure, would like to defer the vote on this resolution to the second part-session in september. this postponement is to adapt our timetable to the new timetable set by the commission at our request for the approval of the accounting standard ifrs 8 replacing ias 14. the commission's proposal to approve ifrs 8 would mean the incorporation of the equivalent us accounting standard into european law without an impact assessment of the effect of the application of such a standard on european listed companies having been carried out. the committee on economic and monetary affairs would point out that the convergence between ifrs and us gaap accounting standards, which is the strong desire of commissioner mccreevy, must lead to standards that allow for better quality financial reporting. real convergence means much more than one party simply copying the accounting standards of the other. in this context, the commission services agreed to revise their timetable, thus allowing an impact assessment to be carried out. this information was sent to us by post last night. the committee on economic and monetary affairs would also like to point out that the commission's proposals for implementing measures, at least in the financial field, including financial information standards, must be examined within three months. we hope that the commission will be able to present this implementing measure, together with the results of the impact study requested, to our committee on 10 september, so that parliament can, at its september part-session, give final approval or not to the application of this standard in european law.
the votes are now closed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague nicolas zingaretti on the amended proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on criminal measures aimed at ensuring respect for intellectual property rights. of course, the european commission does not and should not have criminal jurisdiction except to negotiate between peoples. criminal justice belongs to the people and not to the european union. this does not prevent directives from being adopted which send messages to the member states in order to ensure the effectiveness of community law. it is therefore urgent to build a reliable and respected european legal framework in the field of patents and intellectual property more generally. counterfeiting, piracy, copying, theft, etc. are becoming too serious to be left unpunished.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague and friend dominique vlasto on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on port state control. i am not an expert on the subject but i welcome the important work done by dominique vlasto to defend a balanced position on the regulations on the inspection of ships entering a port in the european union. it is clear that, in view of the unfortunate events which have occurred, the control of the flag must be supplemented by a control of the port by the state. the directive, which has been revised much more ambitiously than the european commission had originally proposed, and which was led by mrs vlasto, is a step towards increasing maritime safety in the interests of europe's coasts, the environment, businesses and citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. this report raises the debate on potential improvements to the eu's competitive environment, in particular for private actions for damages for infringements of competition law brought before civil courts. i am of the opinion that such actions for damages should be facilitated. the aim is to "promote competition and not judicialisation". it would be appropriate to promote quick, amicable solutions of an extrajudicial nature. 90% of disputes between traders and consumers are settled amicably. companies tend to compromise, even when they are not liable, in order to avoid a lengthy legal procedure. it is desirable that europe does not directly import the american-style procedure. the commission has therefore decided to give priority to alternative dispute settlement methods. if all the minds are thinking of the large groups that would be attacked in this way, smes are obviously not immune. so we must be on guard against endangering their survival.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a thematic strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources. no one is arguing that our natural resources are under threat. the present population growth of the planet of one billion additional inhabitants in twelve years with a population, today, of 6.5 billion inhabitants justifies, in itself, the attention we must have to our natural resources. the report could have been more ambitious, structured and documented, but it is nonetheless a good document to be used in this difficult area of sustainable development.
in writing. in the aftermath of the erika and prestige oil tanker disasters, the european socialists fought for eu legislation to improve maritime safety and prevent accidental pollution in its territorial waters this fight has borne fruit, but the creation of a genuine european maritime safety area is not yet complete. this 'third maritime security package' is a decisive step towards this objective. the five reports submitted to the european parliament contain several major advances:- a clear and precise legal framework for places of refuge for ships in distress, under the aegis of an independent authority,- a permanent inspection body to facilitate investigations,- a high level of protection for passengers, in line with that of other means of transport,- enhanced quality and efficiency of controls in european ports, with particular attention to 'high risk' ships. i shall therefore vote in favour of these reports. i now hope that the eu will also improve its legislation against the 'sea bandits' responsible for the 'daily oil spills' in the mediterranean: 650 000 tonnes of oil residues every year from wild discharges, the equivalent of 75 erika!
for the greens/efa group madam president, i wholeheartedly endorse the congratulations to mr coveney. he did a remarkable job. his report does not catalogue violations around the world, you have seen it. it is undertaking a real work of evaluating the human rights and democracy policy being implemented by the european union, and i really emphasize the added value of such an analysis in order to achieve greater coherence and impact in our actions. i am also pleased with the action which the council presidency has announced it intends to take on this report. parliament, in this context, considers that its participation, in one form or another, in the human rights dialogue and its involvement in the implementation of the guidelines are essential for greater effectiveness. i would also point out that the effectiveness of the guidelines is hampered by the fact that some of the union missions in certain countries still do not know what they are. it is therefore always important, imperative, to inform them, to mobilize them, for maximum use. i would like to stress, as you all have done, the concern for the un human rights council, at a time when reforms full of promise should be brought to fruition, so that the un has a credible, effective body for the protection of human rights and democracy. too many council member states are working in the opposite direction, towards a weakening of the creative scope and independence of the special procedures, and promoting a partisan vision. the union must do everything possible, and we support you in this, to ensure the prestige of this international forum, the only one that can still hear the complaints of the victims of human rights violations in the world. this report also gives me an opportunity to stress our commitment to human rights defenders. the new measures contained in the eidhr will provide an opportunity for the union to give concrete expression to its action by enabling rapid support and protection of human rights defenders in emergency situations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-chairman of the subcommittee on human rights, let me first of all congratulate mr coveney on the quality and the extent of his work, which has resulted in this comprehensive and exhaustive text, and also on the openness with which he has managed to achieve the widest possible consensus in this house on this first-rate text. he has therefore agreed to consider and co-sign almost all the amendments which i had submitted to him in committee, and i thank him for that. the text has the merit of addressing all the issues and covering several geographical areas. i particularly support the emphasis on the work of the new un human rights council, the dramatic situation in darfur and the repeated violations of human rights in russia. as regards the work of the european parliament, and in particular of the subcommittee on human rights, i think we can all welcome its constructive action which has enabled, for example, the rapid adoption of the new financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights. i also believe that this report rightly recalls the essential interplay between the internal and external dimensions of european human rights policy. more than ever, each of our member states must set an example in this respect. our responsibility and credibility outside depends on it. i welcome the adoption last week by the ministers of justice of the decision on common criminal sanctions against racism and xenophobia. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on this text and express my full support for it.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, on 16 january 2006 i was speaking in this very hall to defend the resolution against homophobia. it wasn't the first time, and i'm afraid it won't be the last. we wanted to put an end to the disparity in treatment of homosexuals in the union and we realise that we still have a long way to go. we are only a few days away from the world day against homophobia. the text before us today refers to cases of homophobia in several countries of the union, but also to a statement by the polish deputy prime minister. it is not a question of stigmatising this or that government or state, but these diatribes are indicative of the rise in homophobia in the european union. these are unacceptable words and they are not the words of mr. everybody. he's a member of the government. this has to stop. we must once again stand up against this disgusting talk and i would like to denounce here and now the outrageous and abominable new publication by mr giertych, a member of our assembly, who has just distributed his second booklet in which he suggests that homosexuals are sick. all those who feel rightly hurt by these acts and hate speech, all those young people who discover that they are different and some of whom go so far as to commit irreparable crimes against themselves, must know that this is not what europe is about. we cannot spend our time voting resolutions to fight discrimination against homosexuals. we must think in the future about tools that enable us to act effectively. everyone in the union must now take responsibility. (applause from the left)
the president of the council. first, certain results must be evaluated, and then they can be passed on to the appropriate institutions, at least where issues have been identified. the approach was that there are opportunities for integrated urban development or spatial development, particularly in the cross-border area. our presidency is just over two months away. i expect the president-in-office to present the results at the end of his presidency and to make them available to the institutions concerned.
the agenda calls for the report by mr gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a mechanism for the establishment of rapid border intervention teams and amending council regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 as regards this mechanism (com (2006) 0401 - c6-0253/2006 - 2006/0140 (cod)) (a6-0135/2007).
thank you very much, mr busuttil, and thank you for your understanding. i know you would have liked to speak maltese tonight, but unfortunately our teams were not available and i thank you for your flexibility.
member of the commission. mr president, as i mentioned earlier, the commission strongly welcomes the compromise reached between the three institutions on this file. it is an important step in the cooperation between member states and is an excellent example of solidarity in dealing with border controls. with regard to the points raised during the debate, in particular by mr blokland, let me state that at the justice and home affairs council last week most member states had already put technical equipment, etc. at the disposal of frontex for joint operations. in addition, vice-president frattini invited those member states which have not already done so to consider making contributions. on the other point concerning coordination, let me clarify that frontex will coordinate operations involving the competent authorities of the many member states concerned. i should like to conclude by congratulating mr deprez the rapporteur on his hard work, and i welcome the agreement reached between the institutions on the rapid border intervention teams regulation. i repeat that it is an excellent example of solidarity and operational cooperation.
thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by mr kurt joachim lauk, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on public finances in emu 2006 (2007/2004 (ini)) (a6-0076/2007). i would like to point out that the rapporteur has been replaced by mr schwab.
mr president, commissioner, i would simply like to say to the previous speaker that this report is clearly not about the enlargement of the euro area but about the state of public finances in the european union. i would like to warn the house against the temptation, introduced by the rapporteur and unfortunately endorsed by our committee, of completely unbalancing the reform of the stability pact as it has been carried out, since the report proposes nothing less than the unconstitutionality of the public deficit. i hope that the house will have the wisdom to censure or correct this assessment which seems to me to be totally contrary to the optimal use of public finances which, of course, must contribute to financial stability and ensure that future generations do not have to finance our debt. but it also seems to me that if we are to be consistent with our strategy, which requires longterm investment, then to consider any public deficit unconstitutional is to be a narrow ideology to say the least. i would also like to stress that the contribution of this report to better coordination of economic policies and the dynamic vision of jean-claude juncker and commissioner joaquin almunia make it possible to make slow progress - too slowly, but surely, i hope - towards coordination of budgetary timetables, towards better account being taken of consistent macroeconomic data for the whole of the euro area. i hope that what has just happened at the eurogroup, namely a dynamic discussion before each member state sets out to define its own budgetary strategies, will become the rule, at least within the euro area. let me say on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs that if that were the case, the parliamentary dimension of this anticipation of national budgetary strategies would obviously have to be strengthened and, for that purpose, good cooperation should be established or strengthened between the european parliament and national parliaments.
member of the commission. mr president, on behalf of commissioner almunia, i would like to thank you for this very constructive debate. he sends his apologies for not being here today owing to other unavoidable work engagements. as mentioned by members, the strong economic recovery currently under way in europe and in the euro area presents member states with an opportunity to improve public finances to prepare for future challenges such as the ageing population. as a result of this, the commission published its report on the long-term sustainability of public finances in october 2006 and emphasises the importance of addressing the sustainability challenge in the context of ageing-related expenditure. the commission considers the idea of setting a uniform calendar for budgetary procedures across the eu an interesting one. we need, however, to be prudent, since it would need the support of the member states. furthermore, its practical implementation would be somewhat complicated. having said that, last friday the ecofin informal meeting dealt with the medium-term review of stability objectives ahead of the member states’ preparation of national budgets. this is an important step towards a more consistent and coordinated way of establishing national budgets.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote on this will take place at noon tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the commission statement on strengthening european legislation on information and consultation of workers.
to celebrate the carnation revolution, i'm sure, my dear fellow, he'll answer you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thirteen years after the adoption of the directive on european works councils, much remains to be done to ensure that this legislation fully achieves its objectives. in recent years, many companies have carried out major restructuring without consultation and in violation of this directive and other european laws, and none of these companies has ever been sanctioned. the crises facing airbus today, alcatel and volkswagen yesterday and perhaps peugeot tomorrow are striking examples of the shortcomings of the european social dialogue. for airbus, the trade unionists and workers we met in parliament and in our respective territories rightly lamented the lack of prior consultation and genuine consultation on the power 8 restructuring plan. while we know that the mistakes of management are at the root of airbus's current difficulties and that the skills of its employees have ensured its success, they are the last to be informed but the first and most dramatically affected by this plan. as for the managers, they are safe, because they are covered by the millions of euros in their golden parachute. we can no longer tolerate a situation where employees learn of their dismissal from the press. the urgency of greater transparency is at stake. we socialists have been calling for a revision of the texts for several years now, in order to ensure in advance, at regular intervals and at all levels of decision-making, that the information and consultation of employees enable them to have a real say in the decision-making process. thus, employee representatives should be able to sit on company boards. it is a crucial element of information and control of the workers on the strategic decisions. this would also ensure that such restructuring is really necessary for the company and not merely linked to management errors or the search for immediate profit. it is also essential to ensure that companies in the union take on their social and financial responsibilities and act in a responsible and loyal way towards all stakeholders, workers, trade unions, local and regional authorities and the people in the places where they are established. the commission must commit itself to making businesses act responsibly, including by considering legislation on their social responsibility. it seems to me that in a globalised world and in an ever-changing economic situation it is our duty, today as it was 13 years ago, to ensure that the existing directives are fully applied, including by means of sanctions against irresponsible companies, but even more so that there is a revision of the existing directives to go further on information and consultation of workers and on works councils. we would thus be reminding our strong commitment to a social europe.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. firstly, some cases were cited where the directives on informing and consulting employees were not applied appropriately. these cases have occurred, the commission has been active in any case and in some cases there has been a clear improvement in the situation. but i would like to stress that the directive is not as weak as some opinions have suggested. it is primarily a matter for the national courts how it is applied. and i would point out that several companies have recently appeared before the french and belgian courts for failing to comply with the directive and that in some cases, such as british airways, restructuring has even been suspended until the right to consultation and information has been respected. so there are possibilities for a fairly efficient procedure, which is something that i think we should keep in mind. the second issue discussed was the question of a possible revision of the directive. i would like to point out that the commission has initiated a review of this directive and that our aim is in any event to arrive at a solution which ensures the stable and effective application of social dialogue and consultation and the right to consult and inform employees. that is the commission's objective and i am sure that we will achieve it during this legislative period.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled at the end of the debate will take place at the next partsession, in brussels, on thursday 10 may. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 89/391/eec, its individual directives and council directives 83/477/eec, 91/383/eec, 92/29/eec and 94/33/ec, with a view to simplifying and rationalising reports on practical implementation (com (2006) 0390 - c6-0242/2006 - 2006/0127 (cod)) (a6-0059/2007).
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, allow me once again to thank you for the work that has been done on this proposal. i am sure that the vote opens the way to agreeing on a proposal which will significantly simplify the administrative process, remove unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles and, in essence, facilitate a more effective application of the osh directives. let me make one more remark, because some of the speeches were not just about the subject of this directive but also about safety and health at work in general. of course, however small the 4,500 fatalities per year may seem in comparison to the approximately 250 million workers, it is 4,500 human lives. it is a disproportionately large number in this respect, and it is up to us to make every effort to reduce it substantially. thank you, sir.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i welcome your statement, because you have taken note of what we have been saying for some time: that the practice which has developed in certain swiss cantons - not to mention, above all, zug, vaud and schwyz - constitutes a violation of the 1972 agreement on forms of state aid which are contrary to the rules of healthy competition and affect the nature of trade between the european union and switzerland. however, switzerland, a friend of the european union, enjoys the same conditions of access to the internal market of the european union as any member state. we cannot have butter on one side - the internal market - and money from butter on the other - with the exception of certain swiss cantons. it is not a question here of a particular media figure among natural persons, but of considerable sums of money at stake because of the practices developed by certain legal persons. so once we as friends have identified a problem, we need to address it. that's what you're proposing to do. you will have the full support of my group on this matter and i am glad that other groups in this house share this approach. on the swiss side we are told that this would be interference in swiss internal affairs. but in a world of trade, freedom is not one-sided. the reality of other people's situations must be taken into account, and the freedom of some ends where the freedom of others begins. i believe that in our excellent relations with switzerland, and president barroso said so again when he was in berne the other day, that is how we must act. at times switzerland has been able to divide in order to rule among europeans, and everyone remembers the circumstances in which, when we wanted to adopt the directive on the taxation of savings within the union following the feira conclusions, some people used switzerland to divide us. i am glad that the negotiating conditions of the mandate given to the commission clearly allow the member states to speak with one voice, while respecting swiss sovereignty. that sounds very good. finally, i would simply like to point out an obvious point: when we look at the logic of swiss taxation, the idea that a taxation must take account of external costs is fully integrated into swiss tax reasoning. in other words, certain swiss practices validate the fact that, if production is not developed on swiss territory, the cost of infrastructure or access to a skilled workforce does not have to be integrated into taxation. we must, at least in our trade with the european union, make the following point: in the present state of swiss taxation, which is developed in certain cantons, there is a real shortfall from the point of view of the taxation of the member states of the european union, if these production activities are developed on our territory and the taxation of the capital gains thus achieved is relocated to switzerland to avoid any financing of these externalities. i wish you good courage for the negotiation.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some 250 million women worldwide are disabled. in addition, in the european union, the employment rate for women with disabilities is 2% compared to 36% for men with disabilities. they are underrepresented, if not absent, in many areas of social, professional, cultural and political life in france, but also in europe as a whole. in france, the law requires companies with more than 20 employees to have a figure of 6% of disabled workers. the average employment rate is in reality only 4%. it is totally abnormal that companies would rather pay fines, sometimes very high, than employ disabled people. however, 40% of women with disabilities are looking for a job on a permanent basis. this ubesque situation must end. finally, i am surprised that the techniques of quotas and positive discrimination, widely used by parliament to assert the rights of foreigners within the european union, or the presence of women in political parties or in professional decision-making bodies, are not recommended with the same emphasis for women with disabilities, or even not provided for in this report. europe is definitely a multi-speed europe.
in writing. the freitas report, which is being put to the vote today, concerns the outermost regions and, in particular, réunion. the outermost regions are subject to geographical and geopolitical constraints which increase their isolation and limit their ability to export their goods to the european continent. this system of compensation for additional costs supports local fisheries through the processing, transport and marketing of fishery products to the european continent. it also contributes to increasing the competitiveness of local businesses and the sector at european level. the effectiveness of this scheme can be illustrated by the fact that these compensations have allowed an increase in volume and value of reunion's exports since 2000. the renewal of this compensation scheme will make it possible to continue the effort to integrate the industrial, long-line and coastal fishing sectors of the outermost regions into the internal market. this effort must be supported by other factors such as taking into account the change in oil prices, since it must not be forgotten that the outermost regions are highly dependent on it and that transport costs represent a drag on the export of local products.
in writing. i am very pleased with the report by mr duarte freitas, which takes full account of the additional costs faced by some octs in exporting fishery products. the interests of guyana and réunion, which export such products, have been well defended. the european parliament has made the following four demands in particular. firstly, the initial ceiling for compensation for additional costs, arbitrarily set at 75%, should be abolished. on the one hand, this rate is not based on any logical criteria and, on the other hand, there is no reason why fishery products should not benefit from a regime as favourable as agricultural products. secondly, that state aid for the production, processing and marketing of fishery products from these regions be allowed and that compensation be granted for imported products used in the processing of fishery products, such as salt or oils. thirdly, that the use of intra-community imports be allowed if the catch of the outermost regions' fleets is insufficient to guarantee the profitability of the processing industries in these regions. finally, the financial envelope for guyana and réunion should be increased to eur 5 518 000.
in writing. the regulation before us establishes a mechanism to provide, for a limited period, assistance in the form of rapid border intervention teams to a member state facing a massive influx of illegal immigrants. this reserve of 250 to 500 border guards within the european border agency (frontex) will be made available to member states that need them to protect their external borders. it is true that while external border control is a matter for the states and falls within the intergovernmental domain, the massive flows of illegal immigration that occurred, in particular, between 15 august and 15 december 2006 off the coast of west africa towards the canary islands, demonstrated how permeable the external borders of the union were to exponential immigration. cooperation between states is therefore essential in this field. more than 31 000 illegal immigrants landed in the canary islands in 2006, six times as many as the previous year. we are in favour of the principle of cooperation between member states for the protection of the external borders of the european union, but we remain very vigilant about the anecdotal nature of frontex, which is mainly used for media purposes, and about any federalist and supranational drift of this agency.
in writing. as several member states have been faced with critical situations due to massive influxes of illegal immigrants by sea, the european union has found it necessary to create rapid border intervention teams. solidarity between member states is the basis of such an undertaking. these teams are not set up with the objective of repressing these people. it is rather a question of providing european assistance to member states which are receiving too large an influx of illegal immigrants. the events of last summer have confirmed the urgency of preventing difficult situations both for the states of destination and transit and for the immigrants themselves. these teams will therefore be tasked with patrolling the outer borders of the european union under the authority of the national border guards of the host member state. members of rapid reaction teams shall be able to exercise all the necessary skills for border checks or border surveillance activities. however, it is foreseen that they will have to fully respect human dignity in the exercise of their activities; the european union has also recognised the right to freedom of movement for workers. in conclusion, the concerns expressed by some about the use of these rapid border intervention teams should not be realised over time.
in writing. we voted in favour of the resolution on the galileo satellite navigation project. we have had the opportunity here on several occasions to express our support for an ambitious industrial project, for which, for once, the european dimension had its full place, even if we also pointed out its shortcomings or defects, such as its purely civil dimension or the transfer of technologies to non-european countries such as china, a communist dictatorship and unfair commercial competitor. negotiations on the deployment and operation of the system are currently stalled. and it comes to mind that the political will of states acting in cooperation in a very pragmatic way, had been able to put all the technical, human and financial resources at the service of the construction of a european aeronautical industry and gave birth to airbus. in the case of galileo, the eurocracy has extended its powers, the brussels commission is the one who negotiates laboriously with private partners and the discussions are hampered by money problems. obviously, the first method was by far the best.
in writing. despite its claim to be exhaustive, the 2006 human rights report fails to mention one of the main causes of the violation of these rights: communism, which still oppresses more than one and a half billion people in china, north korea, vietnam, laos, cuba, zimbabwe... in every country where they are in power, the communists deny basic freedoms, persecute opponents, and send millions to concentration camps. on our continent, communism has enslaved 300 million europeans. today, despite the fall of the berlin wall, he still exercises his intellectual terrorism. the fact that mr coveney dares not mention the word in his report is proof of this. some of our colleagues, like mr cohn-bendit, go so far as to want to prohibit the poles from decommunizing their country. this is an insult to the memory of the workers of gdansk, the insurgents of berlin in 1953, of budapest in 1956, of prague in 1968 and of all the freedom fighters. since 1917, communism has killed over 100 million people. our assembly, which is so vocal on human rights, should demand that he be tried.
in writing. i abstained on the motion for a resolution on homophobia in europe. first of all, this document does not deal with the whole of europe by focusing on poland and the title of the resolution is, in my view, too general. i also find it reductive that the fight against homophobia is treated as being primarily a fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation. this confusion between homophobia, which is defined as "fear of the same", and aversion to homosexuality is a source of misunderstanding. i am naturally in favour of combating all forms of discrimination based on sexual orientation, except for the issues of marriage and children, where political reflection deserves to mature alongside societal demand. i believe, however, that the issue of the unequal treatment of human beings and the fear of our fellow men deserves better than this resolution, even if i share many of the views expressed in it.
member of the commission. madam president, i will try to be brief, but the issues are extremely important and i would like to respond to both reports. i should like to start by saying that i appreciate very much this possibility of continuing our interinstitutional dialogue on your own-initiative reports. they will play an important role in our thinking as regards the future shape of the policy. with regard to mr andria’s report, i agree with his assessment that many urban centres in europe face severe housing problems. we are currently negotiating cohesion programmes with all the member states, and we see that, in all the national strategies and the operational programmes of the new member states, interventions are foreseen aiming at the rehabilitation of panel housing estates and multi-family houses which were built in those countries in the 1970s and 1980s. so far we have received 340 out of 444 operational programmes and within those programmes our assessment is that around eur 900 million is foreseen for housing infrastructure. i also agree with mr andria that we have to do much more for deprived urban areas and neighbourhoods. in fact, in the negotiations with member states we are strongly encouraging them and the regions to pay particular attention to this issue in all the member states of the union. it seems that most of them have accepted this idea. we already have the preliminary estimates of how much funding will be invested in projects: for urban and rural regeneration it will be more than eur 8 billion in the years to come; for the promotion of clear urban transport, it will be more than eur 4 billion; and for the rehabilitation of industrial sites and contaminated land, it will be more than eur 3 billion in 2007-2013. there are also two elements in those programmes to which we attach great importance, and we will examine them carefully in the negotiations because we believe that they are essential for the success of those programmes. first of all, again in line with your suggestion, there is the need to pay attention to the question of partnership. clearly our evaluations – and i hope you would agree with me – show that programmes perform much better when they reach out to the local community, as regards both design and, subsequently, implementation. secondly, we also pay much attention to the need to adopt an integrated approach, which i think has been a great success of past urban initiatives. in the negotiations we want to see that the problems affecting those stressed urban areas are really addressed in an integrated way, not only through covering different policies and different sectors, but also requiring participation at all levels of governance, from citizens to political stakeholders. i also support your suggestion to promote the exchange of best practice on housing and on sustainable urban development in general. i am convinced that regions and cities can learn a lot from each other on how to ensure a balance between housing needs, demographic trends and urban development trends. that is why, in this new initiative on the regions for economic change, we have provided for the possibility of setting up a network related to developing sustainable and energy-efficient housing stock, and we hope that before the end of this year this network will be operational. i should like to say a few words about ‘jessica’, because we have moved substantially in the last weeks and this increases enormously the scope of efficient financing for housing across europe. this is carried out with the involvement of the european investment bank and the council of europe development bank. the eib has already set up a team with, for the time being, seven experts. there will soon be eight to ten professional staff members from the eib. we have also started, with all the interested member states, the launch of jessica evaluation, the first meetings with greece and poland have already taken place, and others are scheduled in the weeks to come. as a result, we want to have as many evaluation studies of the needs as possible throughout this year, but also through those meetings and reports we want to identify the best projects to be financed by jessica as well as the proposed interventions: the actions needed in some member states. new legislation will be needed, as we see it, as well as a lot of structures. regarding mr janowski’s report on innovation, the cohesion policy is one of those rare policies in europe which integrates different sectoral approaches in the overriding context of development strategy and it can, on the one hand, deliver tailor-made solutions for each european region or territory, but at the same time it is critically dependent on coordination and on synergies with all other european as well as national policies. that is why, for the period 2007-2013, we have reinforced the coordination mechanism within the commission. this policy has, in fact, become a kind of meeting point for many different eu priorities, and research and development and innovation is perhaps the best example of this new approach. we have institutionalised the new synergies between cohesion policy, the seventh framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation programmes. the last two programmes take into account the specificities of lagging regions, which we have not had before, while the cohesion policy will significantly increase its contribution to research and development, but primarily to innovation activities. we are also working with two other commissioners on a communication that would provide exactly the information as well as providing advice on how to combine all those resources of different programmes to increase the efficiency of those programmes as well. that will be adopted in july. as you know, the commission has also invested in better coordination between our policies and national policies with regard to innovation, and generally, the lisbon priorities through the annual reporting and the mechanism of coordinating internally between the two policies in every member state. we have also introduced the categorisation of types of investment that would allow us to see how much will be devoted to innovation and then would allow us also to monitor how this investment is progressing across the whole period. i could not agree with you more on the central point of the report that innovation should be increasingly at the heart of the european cohesion policy, because we cannot today achieve cohesion without investing in innovation capacities in europe across all sectors and types of territories. we are doing it both through human capital investment and regional competitiveness investment. the good news is that member states are reacting extremely positively to those requests and we already know how much will be invested in innovation in the years to come. we are also preparing for the autumn communication from the commission showing in detail to what extent innovation has been retained in the operational programmes. let me express my hope that in the very near future we will have regional innovation strategies in every european region. i think we are very close to achieving this goal. lastly, you made very clear the need for facilitating the access to finance, mainly for the micro-companies and small and medium-sized companies; i fully agree on this need. as you know, we have developed ‘jeremy’ to help with this but we are also in the process of developing an action plan for micro-credit with other services in the commission. here we aim not only to increase provision of capital but also to develop mentoring services and reform the national, institutional and legal frameworks to support this kind of access to credit for small companies in a more effective way.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying, in the interests of clarity, that my group will naturally strongly support the andria and janowski reports. commissioner, it seemed to me very clear from the outset that you had fully taken into account the requests of our colleague mr janowski concerning innovation. i didn't feel the same way when i listened to you. let me put it this way, we have a close relationship and we say things to each other as we think. you answered about cities, but there wasn't really a housing issue. housing, as our colleague mr hutchinson has just mentioned, is the second most important need in maslow's pyramid of needs. the need for food is immediately followed by the need for protection. housing is fundamental to the protection of every human being. so in each state, with very different configurations - we saw it in france with the homeless, we see it in all the other countries where there are problems of construction, urban sprawl, financing, etc., the factors are many - but in each state, whenever there are local or national elections, the housing issue is present. among the various factors to be considered, there is perhaps one point that i would like to emphasize in a few seconds. it is in the andria report, but i do not think it has been sufficiently emphasized: it is the financial question. we are seeing, on a global scale, the rise in land prices. this has led to urban dwellers looking further and further away for housing. this means that they lose time every day on their way from home to work. this means that they spend a larger share of their daily budget on transport. this means that every day they pollute the atmosphere more. this means that every day we increase social problems. all this to say that this question of housing prices concerns us. in view of this situation, the report by our colleague mr andria, madam commissioner, contains a request for study. most of the members of our intergroup and the committee on regional development are not asking the european commission, are not asking the european union to take on responsibilities that are not its own in the field of housing. what we are asking for, madam commissioner, is that with the help of your department we can have a clearer view of responsibilities. what is the responsibility of the region? what is the responsibility of the municipality? what is europe's responsibility? what is the responsibility of housing associations? what is the responsibility of financial institutions and all other actors involved? this study is absolutely fundamental to who should do what. we expect, madam commissioner, in the coming months, thanks to the studies and work you will be carrying out, to have a clarification, knowing also that, at the same time, various departments of the commission - environment, transport, etc. - are concerned with these housing issues. finally, i should like to say that, together with my colleagues in the intergroup and the committee on regional development, we are proud to have reached this report, mr andria, but we do not intend to stop there and that together with you we are determined to go much further on the housing issue at european level. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the its group. madam president, the statement made by mr andria in his report is correct. housing is a major economic and social problem. in france, more than 5.5 million people are poorly housed. in addition, the rent or loan repayments are a heavy burden on the budgets of french families. but the solution is obviously not the european structural funds. firstly, they would be a waste of taxpayers' money. on the other hand, french regions such as nord-pas-de-calais, which are affected by unemployment, social insecurity and a fall in purchasing power, would hardly benefit from such aid. for seven years now, the french cantons of hainaut have not received any objective 1 funds and the europe of brussels is continuing to reduce the funds allocated to our regions. in france, to enable all french people to have decent housing, a housing policy based on two principles must be implemented. first, the principle of freedom, which involves the acquisition of property. today, only 57% of households own their own home. to increase this number, it is necessary to upgrade housing savings plans, housing savings accounts, to allocate zero-interest loans to families and to reduce property taxes. the second principle is the principle of national preference, which should make it possible to give priority to french nationals in the allocation of social and very social housing in france. it is also clear that policies to reconquer our societies and revive our economy require an end to extra-european immigration, whose exponential growth is ruining any effective policy of housing and combating unemployment. there is another prerequisite. the europe of brussels must stop handing over our industries to unfair international competition, which is practicing massive social dumping. it is urgent to build a different europe, a europe of the homelands, based on the free cooperation of the states and community preference, respecting the sovereignty of nations and the identity of peoples.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by commenting on mr andria's own-initiative report on housing policy and regional policy. i would first like to congratulate him on his excellent work and the housing intergroup on their reflection on the contribution of the structural funds to housing policy in the member states. i am more interested in the problem of rural housing, since i come from a rural and mountainous constituency which is in the process of becoming a desert. that is why i tabled two amendments on the subject, which were adopted in part, and that is why i am pleased today, because i was afraid that housing was only associated with urban problems. i wanted to highlight the cumulative handicaps in rural areas - low income, scattered and often old habitats, insufficient social or private rental housing - and the challenges in terms of revitalising rural areas by welcoming new populations. it was also important to stress the need for measures to encourage the purchase, rehabilitation or renovation of old buildings, to support public and private bodies providing advice and individual support for the installation of individuals or professionals, and to improve the supply of new or renovated social, public and private housing. the own-initiative report makes a relevant point of the specific nature of the housing problem in small towns, which are the backbone of the territory and play a major role in the development of rural areas. i am speaking on behalf of my colleague brigitte douay, who cannot be present this morning, on the janowski report. it would like to stress that it is fully satisfied with the report as adopted by the committee on regional development on the contribution of the future policy to the innovation capacity of the european union. it welcomed the adoption of amendments on smes and their role in regional innovation, as well as on the specific characteristics of mountain and rural areas. on the other hand, it seems to be negative to change the wording of paragraph 14, which is the result of a compromise which is broadly shared by the various political groups and which must not be changed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating our two rapporteurs, mr andria and mr janowski. the european union's regional policy must help to improve the innovation capacity of our regions, in order to reduce development disparities and support sustainable and balanced economic growth, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and solidarity. for example, buildings, networks and housing in the outermost regions are largely degraded and insufficiently adapted to natural hazards and specific climatic conditions. efforts in these areas are possible in the outermost regions, through european, national and regional public incentives, with the support of private investment, on the basis of genuine public/private partnerships. such an effort would accelerate research into low-cost, earthquake-resistant, storm-resistant, and high-insulation building materials for low-cost, weather-resistant homes. such a project would also have the merit of promoting a more rational use of energy, giving priority to clean energy, exploiting local conditions and increasing the share of renewable energy sources. the outer rim is intended to become a centre of excellence in terms of innovation, both scientific, technological and architectural, with the dual objective of guaranteeing the safety and comfort of the overseas populations and enabling the sustainable development of these territories. i hope that the commission and the member states will encourage centres of excellence, which are genuine bridges between research and education establishments, smes and local authorities. regional policy is not designed to concentrate ever more on a small number of spectacular projects, nor to disperse aid too widely. it can also be useful and effective if it supports small-scale innovative actions in the less favoured regions in order to guarantee a harmonious and polycentric development of the territory of the european union.
ladies and gentlemen, in view of the discussion we had yesterday, we would like to replace in the text: 'calls on the european union to demonstrate solidarity with estonia in the context of recent events in tallinn;' the main problem was the way events were handled in moscow, rather than in tallinn, and we would therefore prefer the text to read the events in moscow. that would seem more appropriate.
in writing. the report by michel rocard on reforms in the arab world has just been adopted by a large majority and i congratulate the rapporteur on the quality and balanced approach of his work. the report proposes an innovative eu strategy towards the arab world, based on a balanced partnership, to promote substantive reforms involving changes in law and the indispensable involvement of civil society. it also recalls the complacency that has often been shown towards certain regimes in this region of the world, while acknowledging the efforts to dialogue through regional integration mechanisms such as the barcelona process. finally, it stressed the need for these states to promote the values of tolerance, respect for human rights and democratic principles in order to ensure their stability and prosperity. it also highlights the close link between the rise of extremist movements in the political landscape and the economic and social reality prevailing in these states. i was in favour of this new realistic and balanced approach and supported the adoption of this report in the final vote in plenary.
in writing. nuclear energy is a separate energy with military and strategic implications, heavy environmental and safety constraints on installations and populations, and a real political and even 'emotional' dimension. it cannot solve the energy challenges or the so-called climate challenges facing european states today on its own, but it remains unavoidable in many ways. the euratom treaty now allows for freedom of choice: those states which so wish can develop this sector and this technology, in which europe is a leader. states which do not wish to do so cannot be forced to have a nuclear industry. and the treaty provides a framework for cooperation on matters of common interest. we voted against this report because we think that the framework as it currently operates is satisfactory. it advocated turning euratom into a specialised annex to the eec treaty, with institutional procedures which would deprive the states of their freedom of choice. and this is under the influence of an energy policy which is being pursued in brussels, and which we reject not only as being relevant but also as being legitimate. energy policy must be the sole responsibility of the member states.
in writing. the lack of decent, affordable housing directly affects the lives of citizens, limiting their social integration and their choices in terms of study, training and professional development. in my view, the housing problem is not limited to the construction and planning of the land itself. they are also strongly influenced by poor urban planning, which causes some neighbourhoods, affected by environmental degradation - air and water pollution, noise, waste, congestion, etc. - and by malfunctions in public services, accessibility, safety, to become less and less attractive and to sink into impoverishment. local authorities are often the first responders to housing problems. however, this competence has not yet been sufficiently taken into account at european level. it is therefore necessary to establish effective cooperation between the local and european levels. as a french socialist mep, i believe that good access for all citizens to social, health and training services, as well as to business and public administration, is fundamental. it's a right.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament is taking an interest in this major issue of housing in the european union. this is a first step, but it falls far short of the essential point: guaranteeing the right to housing for all those living in the european union. this right should be recognised in the charter of fundamental rights, which today allows member states to provide at least some aid for the very poor. it is a restrictive view of the right to housing that should become universal and effective for all. moreover, the logic of the generalised competition of the single market has a negative effect on the realisation of social housing, which is essential in all our countries. i am particularly concerned about the challenge to the collection of booklet a in france, which guarantees permanent funding for hlm housing. i therefore believe that this report calls for a new stage and that further steps should be taken to ensure that housing policies are specific.
in writing. at a time when labour law is being debated in the european parliament, and 13 years after the adoption of the directive on european works councils, the adoption of this resolution is a much-needed prerequisite. as a french socialist mep, i believe that it is urgent to put an end to the inconsistencies and contradictions between the various european texts concerning information and consultation of workers, in order to avoid the abuse of insensitive companies. in order to prevent employees from being held hostage to wild restructuring, they must be given a real say in the decision-making process within the company's boards of directors. companies must be obliged to act responsibly, to respect the application of existing directives, or to be sanctioned.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i am not entirely opposed to the request. i am certainly sorry that we cannot have a resolution and that we cannot adopt the very constructive resolution on which the conference of presidents agreed last wednesday. i understand mr swoboda's point, however. if i have any regrets, it is simply because that is exactly the message we need to send to this people and give them a little hope and give a little life back to what remains of their fragile institutions. i therefore support mr swoboda's proposal, but i propose that the conference of presidents should calmly consider next thursday how we might mark the 40th anniversary of resolution 242, since the mini-session will coincide exactly with that 40th anniversary. i suggest that the consensus we have managed to build together on this very important issue at the conference of presidents can also be made concrete on this 40th anniversary.
madam president, i too am speaking on africa to draw your attention to the fact that it was too late to table an emergency resolution. i therefore wanted to draw the attention of the members of the european parliament to the situation in northern mali and northern niger, which is detrimental to the tuareg population. we can still avoid a major conflict and a war in this region, where the situation is deteriorating terribly today, despite the algiers agreements and the kidal forum held in march. the tuaregs had laid down their arms on 9 march and today the malian army occupies the water points and some villages while new troops arrive from the south. madam president, i believe that we must intervene before a war breaks out in this part of africa, at a time when the algerian mediator is absent. i therefore ask you to urgently request the commission and the council presidency to send a troika to the malian authorities so that they will agree to sit down again at the negotiating table with the tuareg parties to discuss the implementation of the algiers agreements. in niger, the situation of the tuareg is no better, for they are exploited by uranium mining companies, from which they derive no benefit.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, health services are one of the pillars of the european social model. this is why they have been excluded from the services directive and must be dealt with specifically, as part of a wider reflection on the health sector in europe. the commission's consultation cannot be limited to patient mobility alone, but should be an opportunity to define the role and added value of the european union in ensuring that every citizen not only has equal access to health care, but also a high level of health protection, while respecting the competences of the states and the principle of subsidiarity. european health policy cannot be limited to the mobility of patients and professionals and cannot be limited to the creation of an internal market in health services, which would lead to a two-tier system in which only the most affluent patients would benefit and health institutions would seek to attract the most affluent patients. in addition, due to the disparity in income of professionals, medical demographic problems will undermine access to care in states where providers are less well paid, with providers being tempted to move abroad. patients should have the right to seek treatment in another state, under the freedom of movement, but there is no question of promoting medical tourism. while health services are subject to the rules of the treaty, they cannot be regarded as ordinary market services because they are entrusted with a mission of general interest. there must be a balance between free movement and overriding national objectives, linked to the management of hospital capacity, the control of health expenditure and the financial balance of social security systems. in addition, member states remain competent to organise, plan and finance their health systems. all european citizens, regardless of their income and residence, must have equal access to affordable health care, in accordance with the principles of universality, quality, safety, continuity and solidarity. this will contribute to the social and territorial cohesion of the union while ensuring the financial sustainability of national healthcare systems. patient mobility should not be used as an excuse for the states to neglect their own structures. the court's judgments have introduced a number of concepts which, as the case has shown, require a more precise approach. this is the case for the distinction between hospital and non-hospital care and the concept of reasonable delay. i regret that the commission has only very partially mentioned the mobility of professionals, whereas this subject would require a thorough study. the shortage of staff in european health services will only get worse over time. in addition, we are faced with an ageing population. is it reasonable, then, not to take up this matter now? i don't think he did. the union must commit itself to giving patients complete information so that they can make informed choices about who can treat them and according to what procedures. it is only when all these questions of procedures and criteria have been settled that we will really have 'european patients without frontiers' on our territory". in terms of cooperation, the union could promote the establishment of a european network of reference centres, or exchanges of knowledge on the best treatment practices between different countries. it is regrettable that the consultation described social services in a restrictive way, because, in terms of integration, they have a dimension that goes beyond simple assistance and action in favour of the most deprived. furthermore, the artificial distinction between health services and social services of general interest ignores the reality of the services provided. in many cases, social and health services are provided in an undifferentiated manner. this is particularly the case for health services with social support. what about the medical care in retirement homes and specialised institutions for the disabled? contrary to what the commission's consultation implied, the judgments of the european court of justice in no way require the parliament to limit itself to a mere role of codifying case law, nor do they prevent it from exercising its right as legislator to the full. the court's decisions, taken in reference to particular cases, are not sufficient to define a health policy. decisions must be taken within the framework of the democratic decision-making process. in view of the multiplicity of infringement procedures initiated by dg internal market in the field of health and the unsatisfactory legal situation of citizens who are users, it is necessary, for reasons of coherence, to provide for a directive on health services which specifies the common values and principles applicable to health systems in the union, in order to restore citizens' trust in europe in an aspect of their daily lives, health, which is their most precious asset. the union's added value can be essential in this sense and is also part of the dynamic of the lisbon strategy.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur, mrs vergnaud, who unfortunately had a lot to do with the committee on the internal market, because, as commissioner kyprianou reminded us, we have, on the one hand, the case law, that is, in fact, the treaties as interpreted by the court of justice, and, on the other hand, a position of the european parliament when voting on the services directive, which clearly said that we must choose between what is within the internal market and what, in order to defend the social values of the union, must be within the remit of other mechanisms. i think that the committee on the internal market - not mr manders alone, alas! it took a majority, the support of the epp and alde members of the committee on the internal market - has done something extremely regrettable in trying to reintroduce health services under the services directive into the internal market: in no country in fact do they include commercial services, construction on the one hand, hospital services, services to the sick on the other. there are, indeed, different logics. it is true that we must first of all respect subsidiarity, the financing mechanisms of our social systems, the authorization mechanisms of health establishments, but we must also take account of the european area, the movement within this area and, therefore, promote access to health services for all. however, this must be done by specific mechanisms. i believe that we need specific directives, as for social services of general interest and, moreover, for the rest of services of general economic interest, alongside the directive on market services in the internal market. i hope that not only will the compromise clarify the fact that health services are not in the directive on services in the internal market, but that we will indeed call for a specific directive on health services.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr adamou for his report and to welcome the measures and actions he proposes. these measures are many and varied, but it seems to me that today we would gain in clarity and efficiency by prioritising our priorities and targeting the urgency of the emergency, even if it is not simple. the more we delay in implementing our decisions, the more we need to take action. we also know that when it comes to the environment, everything is intertwined. for almost two decades, we have been aware that we have reached the limits of the biosphere and that we are at an impasse. and yet we do not take the strong decisions we advocate in our texts, despite the increasingly alarming prospects. the protection of biodiversity, it has been said, must be done at all levels of public policy: transport, agriculture, land use planning, tourism, fisheries, etc. we know that too, and yet cardiff is buried deep in the commission's drawers. it is hoped that the work of the interim committee on climate change will make progress on the cause and effect link between this phenomenon and the loss of biodiversity. finally, i would like to stress a particular point in mr adamou's report on gmos. i strongly support the request to the commission to assess their impact on ecosystems and the potential risks they pose to biodiversity. let us not forget that man is part of the biodiversity. so, as you have just said, mr borg, and since we are playing the same tune in this house tonight, let us act, let us act, let us implement our action plan, and may the european union finally be an example!
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would also like to start by congratulating our rapporteur on his excellent work. of course, the title is very ambitious: how to stop the diversity, the extinction of plant and animal species by 2010 and beyond? we'd like to believe that. but we know how difficult it is, in the short term, to put the various european and multilateral instruments, the music of which we write every day here, to music. at a time when the attention of citizens and the media is focused on climate change, it is necessary to recall the importance of biodiversity, because, against climate change, there is no better strategy than to promote the dynamic evolution of ecosystems: the commissioner very well recalled this a few moments ago. as you will have understood, biological diversity involves a dynamic approach and when we consider in situ biological diversity in europe, we start with the preservation of plant and animal species in areas whose management and management are defined as closely as possible to the local populations. in this spirit, political will and the capacity of government to open dialogue are imperative to develop and support networks of environmental exception, such as natura 2000. in contrast, ex situ management of biological diversity is more like a conservation practice for animal and plant species. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. but i have a question about the funding of the advisory groups for international agricultural research and how they work, which must include local and indigenous communities. in conclusion, i would like to stress, of course, the importance for our people and for our territories of a proper implementation of european regulations, because we know that everything is in place and, for example, the water framework directive must be applied. in terms of biodiversity, water is a medium that provides the dynamics of ecosystems from above. for this reason, it is essential to ensure that freshwater is not deteriorating rather than relying on a vague notion of good ecological status.
in writing. biodiversity, more than a priority, is a necessity and urgent action is needed to halt the decline of biodiversity by 2010. the european union is the first to set itself real objectives in this area, and we hope that it will set an example for the rest of the world. sustainable development, sustainable hunting, are not just buzzwords, but they are symbols of a change in industrial, production and hunting practices. the hunters and the hunting organizations did not wait for the european union, the parliamentarians or even less so for this report to set obligations for themselves in respect of species and areas. the commission has also been working on a number of projects in the field of the environment, in particular the habitats and wildlife protection foundations, which have been carrying out effective actions for several years. i therefore want hunting not to be stigmatised but to be supported in its efforts to ensure good environmental management. i can only regret the wording of article 20 which makes hunting partly responsible for the degradation of biodiversity, thus failing to take account of the existence of sustainable hunting.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of a particularly long journey, and to conclude this conciliation on the financial instrument for the environment life+, i would first like to thank my fictitious rapporteurs: cristina gutiérrez, frédérique ries and marie-noëlle lienemann. i think that without them the conciliation could not have succeeded because, it must be remembered, if we have achieved absolutely positive results, it is because we have defended a strong position at the level of the european parliament, it is because we have, together, stood up to, i would say, the commission and the council on several points. i would also like to thank the services of parliament and the committee on the environment. i would also like to thank the commission, and commissioner dimas in particular. i wish him a speedy recovery. i know he cannot be with us tonight, but i thank him and his services for helping us to bring this conciliation to fruition. i would like to thank the council, even though it is not here tonight. i think we can thank the minister, mr gabriel, and the council representatives who made it possible for the conciliation to succeed because i remember that on the evening of the conciliation it sometimes seemed as if we were dealing with budget ministers rather than with environment ministers. we as members of parliament were in favour of a strong budget for the environment ministers, whereas they gave the impression that they were not too keen. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs kratsa, who chaired parliament's delegation to the conciliation, and mr ouzký, chairman of our committee on the environment. with your permission, i'll make a little call. we are at the stage of third reading and therefore conciliation. i would remind you that work on this life+ report began at the same time as the examination of the financial perspective, since we considered that a life+ budget, which falls within the budgetary envelope for the environment for the next seven years, could not be established outside the financial perspective. that is why we have been forcing the matter before the committee responsible for the financial perspective, and in particular before mr böge, because we felt that the environment budget for the next seven years was a mere shell budget and that it should be increased. we wanted to increase it, especially since the commission had given us some prospects. for example, by integrating the management of natura 2000, the life+ budget should have been increased by eur 21 billion. we knew very well that it was absolutely enormous and that the means did not allow it, but we had chosen this strategy to show that there was, in fact, no budget line in the european union budget specifically for natura 2000. that was our first reading strategy, which won us almost unanimous support. but of course, at the stage of the common position, we have not really been heard. mr böge, the rapporteur for the budget, has done us a favour by agreeing to grant 100 million. a hundred million for life+ is ridiculous in the face of the needs we have, the needs we are showing to our fellow citizens: the fight against climate change, the fight against the depletion of biodiversity, the cleaning up of our soils, the cleaning up of our rivers, the fight to save our groundwater, and so on. i'll stop there. the 100 million was of course welcome, because we take everything that can be taken, but to our great surprise - and this is what made us angry - 50 million of the 100 million that were allocated to us had disappeared, were allocated to the general budget. we were very angry about this, but what made us even more angry was that the distribution of the budget was not at all appropriate for us as the european parliament. we felt, and still feel, that the protection of nature must be managed at european level: it is a policy which is a positive point for the european union, a positive policy in which our fellow citizens recognise themselves. this policy therefore had to remain at european level, and the strategy put in place by the council and the commission for the second reading assigned 80% of the budget management to the member states. we could not accept this kind of renationalization of european policies. that is why our aim was to get the council to accept that the management of the environment budget should remain at the level of the commission. i think we have achieved a great success, since the council, in the conciliation procedure, did accept several things: that management be centralised, that is to say, that it be carried out at european level, for the budget of the european union, that the commission double its resources for environmental management, that is to say, that from 1% we go to 2%, that 50% of the budget be allocated to biodiversity and nature protection and, finally, that the 2007 budget can be applied this year and that ngos can obtain financial resources as from this year. so i think we have done a very good job, madam president, and once again, thank you all, thank you to the council and thank you to the commission for being able to complete this conciliation, which is more in the sense proposed by parliament, for the good of our fellow citizens, since we are here to represent our fellow citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would first like to congratulate mrs isler béguin, who has put a lot of energy, skill and talent into bringing about this very positive decision today. i also thank my fictitious rapporteurs, because i believe that it was the united front of all the groups in this house and the understanding of the commission that made it possible for us to achieve this. the political signal given by our assembly is clear: we want to defend environmental policies with budgets, because, while it is important for europe to set standards and set objectives, it is equally important that it should provide financial resources to enable local action, to enable innovations, exchanges of experience and new practices. the second message is that we are advocating a community logic, a european logic, and not simply an intergovernmental logic. environmental policies are those considered to be the most legitimate by all the members of the european union, considered to have this community dimension. it would have been stupid if, at a time when our citizens are expecting more integration, life was renationalized and i do not repeat the arguments of my colleagues who pointed out that the member states were obviously making proposals but that the final arbitration was left to the commission. it was then essential to provide the commission with the means to support it, both in studying the dossiers and in reporting on innovations, through communication, exchange, weeks of mobilisation, bravo! i am glad that the commission has doubled the appropriations allocated to it. good for transnational projects too. it is very important that practices unite different countries with common objectives, which sometimes do not see the link between them, for example, in terms of biodiversity, and which can, thanks to life, have the opportunity to show the convergences of their mobilization and exchange of experience. finally, commissioner, i would like to conclude by expressing my hope that the commission, as it has promised to our rapporteur, will take a good look at all the appropriations that are being mobilised for natura 2000, since it is essential that this great fight for biodiversity can be supported locally, since in many cases, on the ground, we are still doubtful or not always aware of the issues at stake. in any case, congratulations on this conciliation, on this final agreement, and long live life!
member of the commission. madam president, i am pleased to open this debate on the proposal on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy, which complements the water framework directive, which is the centrepiece of water protection for the european union. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for its considerable efforts. i would also like to thank the committee on industry, research and energy, the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on fisheries, and in particular the draftsman and draftswomen, mr rübig, mrs bourzai and mrs corbey respectively, for their very constructive and supportive input on this important file. protecting rivers, lakes, the coastal and marine environment from pollution caused by hazardous substances is a key priority for the commission. since the 1970s when the community took its first decisive action we have made significant progress. however, as we solved some pollution problems, others emerged. the chemical cocktail in our waters has become more complex and the sources of pollution are no longer concentrated at one point but are widespread and diffuse. there has never been a time for complacency. to tackle the pollution problems caused by these dangerous substances the commission has proposed or adopted more than 30 community acts since the water framework directive was agreed. i cannot list them all, but let me highlight some as an example. first, the commission has banned or restricted the marketing and use of 16 of the priority substances of the water framework directive. further decisions on some pesticides, biocides and other existing chemicals are in the pipeline. second, the milestone agreement on reach, the new eu chemicals policy, will require authorisation of the most hazardous substances and reduction of risks for all other chemicals regulated under the water framework directive. in summary, i underline again that also in the future the commission is committed to providing the necessary instruments for emissions control where they can result in the most efficient and proportionate action to resolve pollution caused by priority substances. at the same time i am committed to the principles of better regulation and to coming forward with additional proposals only where it can be demonstrated that the community is the most appropriate level at which to act. i shall now turn to the commission proposal for a directive on environmental quality standards for priority substances. the objective of the proposed directive is to set harmonised and transparent criteria for assessing good chemical status of surface waters, which must be achieved by 2015. thus the most important part of the proposal is annex i: the quality standards which must be respected in all rivers, lakes and coastal and territorial waters. as you know, for marine waters the proposed marine strategy directive will ensure the same level of protection regarding hazardous substances pollution in areas where the water framework directive does not apply. i underline that the proposed values for quality standards already reflect the risk to the marine ecosystem that these substances may pose. in addition, the proposal identifies two additional priority hazardous substances and repeals several directives which were adopted between 1982 and 1990. however, the proposal does not include additional measures for emissions controls for the reasons that i outlined earlier. the commission believes that emissions controls are adequately covered through other existing community legislation such as the directive on integrated pollution prevention and control. as a closing remark, i would like to emphasise that we share the objective of a high level of protection of the water environment. the commission published its first implementation report for the water framework directive on 22 march 2007, world water day. it highlighted that, despite the progress, there is much work to be done, in particular by the member states, if we want to achieve sustainable water management by making the implementation of the directive a success. the current proposal is another step in this direction and i am committed to working with the european parliament and the member states to achieve the goals that we jointly set for ourselves in the year 2000. however, there are many more steps to take and i call for your support in this process.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have just mentioned that chemical pollution of surface waters is a threat to the aquatic environment, to the ecosystem and, consequently, to human health. you said that the purpose of this daughter directive of the water framework directive was to combat the dissemination of toxic substances into surface waters. to this end, a discard, emission and loss inventory will be established to verify whether the targets for reducing or stopping the release and loss of pollutants are met, in accordance with article 13 (7) of the framework directive, with the deadline for the stopping target being 2025. the directive will repeal the existing daughter directives listed in annex ix to the framework directive. the directive therefore sets concentration limits in surface waters for certain types of pesticides, heavy metals and other chemicals which are dangerous to aquatic fauna and flora and to human health. the impact studies carried out by the commission have led to the setting of levels for environmental quality standards on the basis of an annual average providing a level of protection against long-term exposures and on the basis of a maximum allowable concentration for protection against short-term exposures. however, some of the eqs values are still subject to debate, in particular for benzene and cadmium, hexachlorobenzene and hexachlorobutadiene, mercury, nickel, lead, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons also, because some impact studies have not been completed, which has, nevertheless, hindered our debates. the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment show the desire to establish common methodologies in order to guarantee an adequate level of protection and to avoid distortions of competition between member states. we have also considered the possibility of allowing transitional overrun zones. indeed, if we were to delete this paragraph, would we be more advanced? the analysis area is what counts. if we do not define transitional zones, we may have a perverse effect, which is to avoid checks in these zones and, therefore, to be unaware of what is happening there. we therefore proposed that the states should be allowed to define transitional zones, but with the obligation to reduce these zones in order to ensure that environmental quality standards are eventually met. we have also raised the particular case of port areas where, because of the mixing of water bodies caused by the dredging of rivers and estuaries, the quality standards or the method of analysis do not seem to be adequate. we have discussed at length the advisability of adding highly toxic substances to the list of substances originally proposed by the commission. this was eventually compromised. we ask that the commission carry out an analysis of these new listed substances and decide on their final classification as priority substances or as priority dangerous substances no later than 12 months after the entry into force of this directive. our compromise is about new emission control measures. we insist on control of emissions. while the commission does indeed invoke the existence of other legislation on chemical pollutants, such as reach, ippc, or the pesticides directives, we ask that the commission carry out a full assessment of the consistency and effectiveness of all existing legislation which may affect water quality and, if necessary, adapt or propose new legislation. in conclusion, i would like to thank the commission representatives and the various speakers who helped me with the drafting of this report and, of course, my fellow rapporteurs for opinions, for the quality of their collaboration on a very technical matter. i have to tell them it was a pleasure working with them. i would now ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this report so that we can obtain a text which will make it possible to check the effectiveness of the european legislation applicable in the field of the environment, that is to say, which will make it possible to know whether, by the deadline of 2025, we will have succeeded in eliminating the discharges of these substances which are highly toxic to man and the environment.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have here a very important daughter directive of the water framework directive. i would remind you that this framework directive provides for the restoration of good ecological status of surface water and fresh water in the european union by 2015, and i must tell you, commissioner, that we are very concerned about the very slow implementation of this directive. it was nevertheless essential to provide a framework for the prohibition of priority substances and priority dangerous substances, some of which must be phased out, and to establish standards for them. the framework directive originally provided for full consistency with international conventions on the seas, in particular the ospar convention. this convention contains a list of substances which are to be phased out and it seemed to my group essential that the substances listed in the ospar convention should be systematically included in the list of priority dangerous substances in the directive. however, in the interests of compromise, the socialist group accepted the proposal of our rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, whose quality of work and personal commitment i should like to commend, and withdrew her amendment. in any event, the socialist group will ensure that, once the work of the experts and the impact studies are completed, the commission actually strives to achieve the highest level of standards, because, as you know, it is not only the quality of our waters that is at stake, but also the quality of our seas and oceans and consistency with the draft directive on a marine environment strategy, which we have examined at first reading. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, identical measurement methods throughout the european union, which is more comfortable for the member states and clearer for the citizens. secondly, transition zones, yes, but with a deadline that is set, or at any rate proposed at first reading, for 2018, if i remember correctly. thirdly, and this is a very important point, we must ensure that our legislative provisions are gradually brought into full coherence, since it is true that we are often criticised for the accumulation of logic, and the final arbitration must be clear to the citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development on this proposal for a daughter directive to the water framework directive. i would first like to congratulate mrs laperrouze on the excellent work she has done on this complex and very technical subject. i am particularly pleased with the vote in the committee on the environment, because 12 of the 21 amendments proposed by the committee on agriculture and rural development have been adopted. in short, our committee was asked to: first, to recall the principles of precaution, preventive action and polluter pays; secondly, to stress the need for rational land use in the context of organic farming. thirdly, to define the complementary national and community measures to be implemented, such as the management of other pollutants and specific monitoring programmes for sediments and biota; fourthly, to stress the need for a formal assessment of the consistency and effectiveness of the various community acts on water quality; fifthly, to call for coordination of surveillance programmes and national inventories where a river crosses several member states. sixthly, and finally, to demonstrate the need for member states to accompany their inventory with a timetable for implementing the emission reduction or even cessation targets.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased with the many efforts made by my colleagues, and also by the commission, to ensure the implementation and proper functioning of the daphne programme, which is designed to prevent and combat violence against women, adolescents and children, by providing it, in particular, with a specific budget line and by substantially increasing its budget. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to a particularly heinous phenomenon, which is growing in our society: the abuse of newborns. in fact, in france in particular, not a week goes by without a new case of child abuse or abandonment being reported in the "miscellaneous facts" section. this phenomenon, linked to poverty and social and emotional deprivation, to the inherent violence generated by our societies, but also to human behaviour increasingly prone to hostility and frustration, to selfishness and lack of respect in general, could be curbed if more psychological, but also material, support were provided to women and families in difficulty. preventive measures for these families and women in distress are urgently needed. but these actions must also be accompanied by real criminal sanctions. whether it is rape or other physical violence, which unfortunately all too often leads to death, the scale of punishments is not sufficiently repressive. the fight against violence necessarily involves dealing with the perpetrators of violence. i'm thinking of the internet, where perverts and psychopaths can give free rein to their obsessions; i think of video games, where sex and violence are rampant; i am thinking of drugs and other psychotropic substances, putting each user in a second state; i am thinking of alcohol, which, when consumed in excess, causes enormous damage, particularly through its disinhibiting action. the fight against violence begins with the education of our children, with the future we want for them.
member of the commission. mr president, it is a pleasure for me to come before parliament to exchange views on the report by mrs pleguezuelos aguilar, launched by the committee on regional development. i am told by my colleague, commissioner hübner, who apologises for not being able to be here today, that, as in the case of the previous reports, it shows again how excellent and efficient our collaboration is. i fully share the view that cohesion policy is essential to reducing internal eu disparities on the one hand and closing the gap between the european regions and the world-leading economies on the other. this is so because cohesion policy is based on a modern paradigm of sustainable development which may be best described as a conditional grant. in order to benefit from the policy, member states are required to draw up a medium-term strategy for the use of the resources, to cofinance european aid from national budgets, to work in partnership at national, regional and local level and to respect eu laws and policies. these conditions have resulted in the development of an efficient management system shared between european, national, regional and local levels – a system of multi-level governance. on top of this, as the report correctly points out, cohesion policy makes a substantial contribution to the increase of commercial flows within the internal market and, as a result, has spill-over effects outside the regions and countries in which the policy is implemented. we all have to admit, however, that the impact of our policy has probably not been sufficiently measured, explained or appreciated. clearly, cohesion should be assessed on the basis of multiple dimensions and should not be limited only to gdp since, in the short- and medium-term, this fails to reflect many important aspects of the impact of european cohesion policy. therefore, the fourth cohesion report will carry out a thorough analysis of economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union with the help of a wide range of indicators. certainly, one of the keys to its success lies in the fact that cohesion policy is an integrated, fully-fledged policy. it is not a bundle of sectoral approaches, but a policy that integrates different policies in the overriding context of development strategy. that is why it can deliver specific tailor-made solutions for each european region or territory. at the same time, it is a new policy that critically depends on coordination and synergies with other eu and national policies. this brings me to the link between the strategy for growth and jobs, and cohesion policy. as early as this year, each member state will set out how cohesion policy contributes to the implementation of the national reform programme. equally, the commission will, in its annual progress report to the spring european council, summarise the progress towards achieving the union’s priorities of promoting competitiveness and creating jobs, including meeting the objectives of the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs for 2005-2008. we have also introduced an earmarking approach which assures that the predominant share of policy resources is invested in key lisbon drivers. as you know, the programming phase has not yet been finalised. however, according to the available data, we can already state that the reinforcement of the strategic approach of cohesion policy and its concentration on the growth in jobs agenda has been a success. in fact, around eur 200 billion will be invested in lisbon priorities between 2007 and 2013. if we add to this cofinancing and private resources leveraged by cohesion policy intervention, we may well see this figure double, and we need to compare this to eur 150 billion in 2000 to 2006. in addition, in the new 2007-2013 period, we have reinforced the coordination mechanisms inside the commission, both in the context of the programming documents and in day-to-day operation. in a way, the preparation for the 2007-2013 programming period became a meeting point between different eu priorities. take, for instance, research and development and innovation. at eu level, new synergies have been established between cohesion policy, the seventh research and development framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation programme. the last two programmes will take more account of the specificities of the regions that are lagging behind. cohesion policy, on the other hand, will significantly increase its contribution to the financing of r&d and innovation activities. the departments within the directorate-general for regional policy, in cooperation with those of mr potočnik, are working on a communication to provide information and advice on how to combine the resources of cohesion and rdt policy in order to increase their respective effectiveness, which is to be adopted in july.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, i thank you for allowing me to speak as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. the cobu adopted, by unanimous vote, an opinion on the impact and consequences of structural policies on the cohesion of the union. it is not necessary to say at this point that these policies are the very expression of the solidarity of the european people. but while it is clear that they are in fact contributing, through economic leverage, to a gradual alignment of the living standards of european citizens, we find a lack of common indicators to measure their real impact. our parliament, which, i would remind you, shares the budgetary authority, must be able to have such indicators common to all the member states, in order to optimise the use of the community budget and also to improve the monitoring of the implementation of the budget. i would therefore like to stress once again the need to create a new measurement instrument, common to all the member states and weighted by the various indicators, which would take into account both - as the commissioner has just emphasized, and with which i fully agree - economic growth, of course, unemployment, the level of equipment, the level of research and innovation, but also points related to the quality of life, such as life expectancy, the birth rate or the level of remuneration of our fellow citizens. this could really increase the leverage for the well-being of all europeans.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the fictitious rapporteur for the epp, i should like to begin by congratulating our colleague, mrs pleguezuelos, on the very high quality of her report. i would also like to say how much we have enjoyed working together to produce this report. i think the rapporteur has said the main points, and so has mrs griesbeck, with whom i agree. i would simply like to draw attention to four points. firstly, we really need to assess the situation properly and for this the indicators just mentioned seem essential. at the moment, we have only gdp, which is really not enough. secondly, we must also take account of the new territorial challenges we are about to face, and which we are already facing. i am thinking of population ageing, energy, climate change and also agricultural policy, which undoubtedly influences cohesion policy. thirdly, the union's structural policies will very soon be the first budget of the union. that is why an integrated approach with the other policies of the union, but also with those in each of the member states, is extremely important. the fourth point, commissioner, i think we will have to discuss seriously: it is structural policy and the lisbon strategy. of course, structural policy must contribute to the achievement or success of the lisbon strategy, but we must pay close attention to the balanced development of the territories. it seems to me quite obvious that the lisbon strategy is not in itself a balancing factor: i think we will have to pay close attention to this. we shall have another opportunity to talk about this very soon, when the fourth cohesion report is presented to parliament and we shall be working on it to see how this policy can be developed in the future.
in writing. cohesion policy, which will become the main item in the eu budget, must better combine structural fund interventions with other community policies, with the aim of increasing synergies to promote competitiveness, research and innovation in our regions. the structural policies in the overseas territories would have an even greater impact if the union were more flexible, agreeing to break free, where necessary, of certain 'community dogmas', and respecting the special conditions of the overseas territories, whose territories are small, far from the single market, and subject to regular natural disasters. an analysis of the multiplier effect of the structural funds in terms of attracting private investment should make it possible to strengthen cooperation between the public and private sectors, in the interests of a sustainable, polycentric and balanced development of the territory of the union. in this spirit, the union's structural policy must be a catalyst for initiative, to develop, from the ors, centres of excellence by drawing on sectors that value their assets and know-how, such as waste management, renewable energy, student mobility, climate research, or crisis management.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr caspary. i shall confine myself in a minute to the main points of the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which is responsible for monetary policy. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has looked at the question of exchange rates between the euro and the currencies of our main partners and competitors, and has stressed that the expected benefits of a reduction in customs duties on exports, or the market shares that are expected from the reinforced disciplines on non-tariff barriers, can be reduced to zero by an unfavourable exchange rate development. we therefore suggest that the commission should propose new trade defence instruments which would enable european producers to defend themselves against an abusive depreciation of our competitors' currencies and we suggest that we look to the united states of america where a number of our fellow legislators in the united states senate have devised a system which would hit imports from countries with artificially undervalued currencies with a corresponding customs duty. so without going that far, we judge that the inertia in this area has become incomprehensible. the other issue, among the many contributions of the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which i would like to highlight quickly, is the environmental issue, in considering that it is not fair that european producers, who have to bear the costs of less polluting production methods, should be competed with by cheap imports from countries which refuse to take their share of the effort to combat global warming. that is why the committee on economic and monetary affairs is proposing the creation of a carbon tax.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us dispel the myth that free trade no longer reduces poverty and promotes development. the latest studies published by the world bank estimate the gains at almost nothing, and of that almost nothing, most of it goes to china. if the elimination of customs duties is taken into account, the balance becomes particularly negative for the developing countries. capitalist globalisation does not organise competition between the big multinationals, it protects them. it is, however, a serious challenge to the social and tax systems that are the result of democratic choices made by the citizens of each nation. one of the consequences of free trade is a massive transfer of the tax burden from firms to households. that is why the grand phrases in the report on the preservation of the european social model are nothing but theatrical formulae designed to make people cry in the slums. if we are to get out of this, it is important to replace the principle of free trade with that of fair trade. the fall of the dollar and the yen is bleeding industrial employment in the euro zone. and the report invites the commission to invite! tartuffe couldn't have said it better! not a word about the iniquitous attempt to undermine anti-dumping regulations on the pretext that they harm certain so-called european financial interests. because we are at the service of the european citizens and not of speculative investment firms, we choose cooperation over competitiveness, we choose a rational protectionism based on social and ecological customs duties, we establish controls on exchange rates and capital movements. i am convinced, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that if we persist in the free-trade rush, the union will hit the wall, foot to foot, singing its head off!
madam president, the report by our german christian democrat colleague, daniel caspary, on globalised europe presents in an almost caricatured way the benefits of globalisation and the trade policy of the european union. it has only advantages: opening up markets, especially public procurement, increased competitiveness, benefits from competition, free trade worldwide with a small detriment, however, to intellectual property rights. on the other hand, protectionism is condemned without appeal and customs duties are condemned to the devils as an intolerable insult to the god of commerce. in the face of the all-powerful ultra-liberals in the european parliament and the european commission, it will be interesting to see what mr sarkozy's government will do to defend our businesses, in particular our smes, our agriculture and our public services. europe is already the most open economy in the world, so it is paradoxical to want to go further, unless we deliberately and definitively sacrifice our agriculture and our industry. and yet this is what brussels europe is doing, in the name of competition, free trade dogma or to satisfy our american allies. in these circumstances, in the absence of a proper trade defence, in the absence of effective protection instruments, in the absence of european officials independent of the anglo-saxon lobbies, what can europe do to prevent the relocation of firms and the flight of brains and capital? the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and consultation services.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make four points. first of all, commissioner, i think you were right to insist that the strategy of a globalised europe must not mean giving priority to multilateral negotiations. there is a lot of enthusiasm, but also a lot of illusions, about what bilateral free trade agreements can bring. we are told that we must do so because others have taken this path, for example the united states. in fact, the united states has only signed six or seven free trade agreements, which account for barely 5% of its foreign trade. the other agreements have failed because they pose the same problems as in the multilateral framework, with, in general, the same type of partners. i would add that these negotiations often lead to agreements which are more unbalanced in relation to developing countries, to the advantage, of course, of the developed countries. this brings me to my second point: when we move from the multilateral to the bilateral framework, we must not abandon the development objectives of trade policy in the process. from this point of view, mr caspary, i think it is impossible to say that trade policy is not linked to other dimensions: development, the fight against poverty, the environment and social policy. the link between trade and development, trade and poverty reduction, is not automatic. for example, it is said that if africa does not trade, it will remain poor. which is true. but does that mean that any trade agreement with africa is necessarily good for africa? no, that's not true. a more differentiated and controlled approach, which takes account of the fragile sectors in a number of countries, must be considered. and this is not just the case for the poorest countries, it's also the case for emerging countries, countries like india, which are among the poorest in the world. thirdly, this strategy of a globalised europe should not mean the reintroduction of subjects which have been excluded from the multilateral framework. i am thinking of the singapore issues, the investment negotiations, public procurement, public services. the reintroduction of these subjects is not justified, it will lead to the same problems, the same blockages, or else these subjects will be imposed by force, which go beyond the rules of trade and concern the internal regulation of sensitive sectors, such as access to essential services, to public services. fourthly - and i will conclude on this point - i believe, as mr junker does, that we must not lose sight of the fact that the union, also through its trade policy, is pursuing the implementation of social and environmental rules. we do this through the strengthened system of generalized preferences, we no longer do this in free trade agreements, and i regret that because we also have to promote compliance with, among other things, the ilo rules.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague mr caspary on this very good report. because globalisation is bringing unprecedented changes, the european union must now make the necessary reforms to take full advantage of it. one of these reforms is based on adapting european trade policy to the challenges of competitiveness. the logic which draws a parallel between globalisation on the one hand and the decline in european production and job losses on the other must be put to an end. europe must be able to become an area of synergy and industrial cooperation. for this, it's all about attractiveness, specialization and defense. europe must therefore pursue policies that promote an environment favourable to entrepreneurship, production and job creation. smes, which are key players in these policies, must therefore benefit from easy access to public procurement, as is already the case in the united states. to be more comprehensive, more integrated and future-oriented, these policies must not neglect the agricultural sector, which is a strategic trade asset of the european union and not a bargaining chip. it would have been appropriate to have referred to it in the same way as to the services sector or to high value-added products. in addition to being proactive, europe must also be protective. the european union's performance in relation to emerging economies is now being undermined by a lack of reciprocity in terms of market access conditions and by the proliferation of unfair trade practices. in the face of this loss of speed, europe must take a more resolute position. it must thus be able to protect itself from economic, social and environmental dumping by means of trade defence instruments, which are at present the only palliatives to the absence of globally recognised competition rules. the external competitiveness of the european union will be ensured by its ability to attack and its ability to defend itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to recall some of the main principles and express some of the concerns about the new trade strategy which the commission is advocating today and which is also reflected in the report by our colleague mr daniel caspary. the first principle to be remembered is that multilateralism must always be given priority. we know that the excessive proliferation of bilateral agreements is seriously damaging to the multilateral regulatory framework to which we adhere. the second principle is not to weaken the union's commitment to a trade policy for development, a policy that integrates non-trade dimensions such as decent work, access to medicines, the environment or poverty eradication. i have three concerns. the first is that the development dimension of the doha round is no longer a priority in future free trade agreements and the union's new trade agenda, even though the objectives of the union's trade policy should always be fully compatible with, and usefully complement, its development policy, in particular with regard to social and environmental issues. my second concern is the scope of these agreements, which go far beyond the current wto provisions. for example, the principle of total reciprocity, which is being sought, including for emerging countries facing widespread poverty, is not acceptable. we must allow developing countries to protect fragile and sensitive sectors of their economies in the interim. in short, we should not impose on others what we cannot impose on ourselves. the last concern i have is the proposals for negotiations on the so-called singapore issues. these highly controversial issues were excluded from the doha round following widespread opposition from developing and emerging countries. the controversy had previously led to the failure of cancún. we know that these complex issues raise sensitive issues for both the union and our partners, touching on domestic politics and, therefore, the very sovereignty of states. these issues could also have a considerable impact on economic and social models and, therefore, on the development of our partners. it is essential that the union does not push for the inclusion of these issues in the negotiations. nothing can justify that what has gone out through the door of a multilateral cycle should come back through the narrow window of a bilateral agreement. it is about our consistency, our credibility and a certain model of development that we have always sought to promote.
mr president, commissioner, the european union is now making ambitious commitments to development. i welcome this because there is an urgent, urgent need to help developing countries to reduce poverty, to achieve the millennium development goals and to enjoy sustainable economic growth. let us hope that these objectives will be translated into concrete and effective action. as such, the commitments to increase aid to trade are welcome. i would like to highlight a few points which justify the essential nature of this instrument. it is first of all a response to the need for coherence, which must guide the european union's external action: by articulating the different areas of its external action, the european union is responding to two principles, namely better legislation and more effective aid. it also responds to the reality of the multilateral trading system by helping developing and least developed countries to reap the benefits of market access. finally, it contributes to the implementation of trade agreements. these include wto agreements and economic partnership agreements. aid for trade thus helps to make international trade a tool for poverty reduction through economic development. finally, to be effective, trade assistance must meet several requirements: it must be accompanied by concrete commitments, including technical assistance, be subject to control and monitoring of its implementation, and strengthen local ownership and management oriented towards results. this is essential if trade assistance is to enable developing countries to benefit from the benefits of the multilateral trading system and to enable them to effectively increase their trade capacity. we therefore call on all the parties concerned to continue their efforts so that aid to trade can live up to its promises.
member of the commission. mr president, i regard this report as very constructive, very realistic and very welcome. as i said earlier this year in the committee on international trade, mr sturdy’s is a contribution which helps us look afresh at the challenges we face in these difficult, time-pressured talks. yes, the epa negotiations have moved slowly – more slowly, frankly, than anyone could possibly justify. but at the same time we have to recognise that these agreements are new, innovative and ambitious. when change is involved, people inevitably are uncertain and, therefore, want to tread carefully. we need to balance our need to complete these negotiations on time with our need to respect others’ uncertainties. i fully agree with the starting point of the report, that appropriately designed epas are an opportunity to revitalise acp-eu trading relations. in fact, i would say that they are our only real opportunity to stop the further slide of acp trade into the commodity dependence and decreasing diversification that have typified acp trade over the last quarter of a century. we looked for alternatives, and there is no shortage of suggestions and ideas. none provides the legally secure trade regime or links to development that epas do. none tackles the divisions between acp countries in trade regimes that prevent regional markets emerging and lock countries into a north/south dependency. so i am pleased that the report recognises the good faith and ambitious approach that we have taken. at the same time it recognises that trade is not the panacea for development. only domestically driven policy reform built on firm foundations of good governance and an enabling environment for business and investment can secure the economic growth and development which the acp countries seek. but i also agree that trade is critical to support and build on this reform and, in so doing, deliver inclusive growth and jobs. that is why i am determined that we will take the opportunity that epas present to us. the development dimension of epas is in using market access, not merely granting it. it is investment finance, not merely development aid. this needs new rules fit for a globalised world, and this is why i am so keen that epas address issues such as competition policy, public procurement and trade facilitation. but we know our partners’ limits and will work with them to phase in change and to identify regionally specific needs and solutions. no one is talking about immediate overnight change or imposing rules. but we will keep talking. to turn away in the face of challenge would be to neglect our duty to give the acp the economic future they deserve. we want to secure sustainable development, not unsustainable poverty. the sturdy report calls for full duty-free, quota-free market access into europe, and this is what we propose. the commission’s market access offer was made in april and proposes full access for all products with transitions for sugar and rice to protect the managed markets that the acp rely on. this delivers on our promises to take the greatest commitments on market access and hand the full flexibility of wto rules on exclusions and implementation over to the acp themselves. everyone will be aware of the importance the acp rightly attach to additional development support in this negotiation. this is a point on which robert sturdy sets out some very useful proposals. funding is important. we must help the acp grasp the new trading opportunities that epas will provide. the epas will not fail for lack of financial assistance – that i can guarantee. as part of this, we have suggested that epa regional funds be established by each of the negotiating regions in order to build a tailor-made instrument, in line with international standards but owned and run by the acp with ease of use. these funds, which would also be available to channel the support of other donors, could include institutional support to ensure that the capacity to implement the epas is there: private sector competitiveness – from access to finance to industrial retooling, to improving sps standards; and helping out financially in those countries which face a fiscal challenge with the lowering of tariff barriers as revenues are shifted from governments to consumers. so our ambition is clear: to build, through epas, a trade and development instrument which galvanises investment flows, internal demand, private sector activity and job creation and, in so doing, builds a sustainable fiscal base for acp governments to operate, to provide basic services and to determine their own economic future free of wto waivers, concessions and constraints. let me finish on a broader political point. there has been criticism, including from members of this parliament, of these negotiations, and concerns, particularly from our acp partners, about the content, in some respects, of the negotiations. but we are now making headway in these negotiations. there is a positive dynamic to the negotiations. we have the real prospect of cementing a deep partnership for development between the eu and the acp. the consequences of failure would be highly damaging to the eu and to the goal of balanced, dynamic growth in the acp. that is why i welcome this report and parliament’s support in delivering these agreements. i would like to express again my appreciation for the argument and the proposals and recommendations contained in it.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by apologising to my colleague margie sudre, who has been delayed by an appointment with our new french prime minister, mr françois fillon. the commission would like to comment on the special situation of the outermost regions of the union, which are particularly close to its heart. i would also like to congratulate my friend robert sturdy on the scope and quality of the work done on this excellent own-initiative report. our union must conclude economic partnership agreements with the african, caribbean and pacific countries, known as acp countries, known as epas, to strengthen economic growth, regional integration and the fight against poverty in six major disadvantaged areas of the world. in the spirit of cotonou, it must be constantly recalled that the epas must not be reduced to simple free trade agreements, in the sense of the world trade organisation, but must represent a genuine partnership, making it possible to create a new framework for action which is favourable to the development of the economies of the acp countries and, therefore, to the stabilisation of peace, particularly on the african continent, with a dynamic of regional integration. because of their geographical position, close to many acp countries, the overseas communities, whether or not they belong to the territory of the union, must be at the heart of these preferential and reciprocal agreements. the special situation of the outermost regions and of the overseas countries and territories must be taken into account in the context of these negotiations, on the basis of article 299 (2) and (3) of the treaty. they should be involved as early as possible in the negotiations to consider differentiation in market access and to coordinate their respective support arrangements in order to strengthen their integration into their regional environment. it is in this context, ladies and gentlemen, that i encourage you to support the amendment co-signed by margie sudre and robert sturdy, on behalf of the epp group, which seeks to strike an intelligent balance between the regional integration of these overseas territories and the historical and geopolitical links between them and europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiation of the economic partnership agreements between the commission and the acp countries is a matter of the greatest concern to the acp countries and is taking place in an atmosphere incompatible with the historic partnership between us. europe is seen as seeking to impose free trade zones on some of the world's poorest countries at any cost, and on its terms. the relationship of trust with the acp countries is now at stake. we must resume negotiations on a new basis to meet the concerns raised in the acp countries about the impact of epas on the future of their economies, many of whose sectors would not be able to withstand a lowering of customs protections and unchecked competition with the european economy. the commission must return to the principles laid down in the cotonou agreement. the objective is development, not reciprocity in opening up markets. such a principle would be contrary to the objective set, given the inequalities in development which will not disappear in twenty years. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. we must offer those who do not sign epas by the end of 2007 market access at least equivalent to the preferences they currently enjoy, without any of them being placed at a disadvantage at the end of these agreements. in addition, singapore services and subjects do not have to be introduced into the negotiation. the only requirement for conformity with wto rules is the preferences granted for trade in goods. these issues have been removed from the wto negotiations at the request of developing countries. they do not have to be reintroduced abruptly for the acp countries. these questions are first of all the responsibility of the regional groupings of the acp countries, whose sovereignty in this matter must be respected. the commission must therefore withdraw them from the negotiations. in addition, the parliaments of the acp countries and the european parliament, as well as civil society, must have access to all aspects of the negotiations, be consulted and be involved in the negotiations. finally, if longer time is needed to negotiate good economic partnership agreements, the commission must be flexible and defend the principle of flexibility with wto members.
mr president, commissioner, in its latest proposals the union is considering extending the concept of 'everything but arms' to all the acp countries. this is a step forward, which would ensure that none of them loses money in exchange after 2007, but it is not a miracle solution, which would make epas development agreements. this requires going further: a transitional period much longer than the 10 or 12 years currently proposed; to end agricultural dumping and respect the principle of food sovereignty; to offer genuine special and differentiated treatment and to enable acp countries to protect certain sectors of their economy; end the pressure on singaporean subjects to respect the right of all states to freely manage their public services, and finally, involve civil society and parliaments more. i believe that at this price the epas will be able to serve, as a priority, the development of africa, and not just that of europe.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my report on organic production and labelling of organic products will finally be put to the vote today, after first being referred to committee and then to the council for urgent procedure, which was unanimously rejected by parliament last month. unfortunately, the new discussions with the council during these two months have not allowed any further progress to be made on important points. in particular, neither the commission nor the council accept the double legal basis which we have been calling for. the council did not reverse its decision to authorise, by exceptional derogation, additives and veterinary treatments derived from gmos. similarly, certain chemicals could also be authorised by way of derogation. in the absence of codecision, we are forced to take note of it. we regret, however, the council's closed and casual attitude in recent weeks, despite the goodwill of some member states. i also deeply regret that the majority of the groups yesterday refused to postpone the vote to june, since the council itself had postponed its meeting on organic farming. i regret that the majority of the groups did not want to use our means of pressure to the full. that said, the council nevertheless took up many of our amendments in its compromise and regular consultation of all the parties concerned is part of the overall agreement. i therefore ask you to adopt this report. you can count on my determination, and that of my colleagues on the committee on agriculture and rural development, to follow this matter closely in the months ahead. (applause) i would like to thank
mr graefe zu baringdorf, you have asked to speak. i will ask you as to what and on the basis of what article.
i am very sorry, mr graefe zu baringdorf, you have heard the reaction of our colleagues. i think everyone has understood that you consider the report to be a good report, but i cannot give the floor to all the rapporteurs and former rapporteurs, you will understand that easily.
we have now completed our voting session.
we shall now proceed to the explanations of vote.
in writing. the extension of the daphne programme for 2007-13 shows the european parliament's desire to continue the plan, which was set up in 2000. violence against children, adolescents and women is a dramatic social phenomenon. certain groups particularly vulnerable to violence need to be better protected, not to mention domestic violence and female genital mutilation. in réunion, for example, crimes against women have doubled in 20 years, and more than one in five women has suffered at least one form of violence in a public space in the past 12 months. i therefore hope that the european commission will dedicate a european year to this type of violence. i welcome the commitment of the commission, which has increased the budget to almost €117 million, even though this is less than the amount requested by the european parliament. the doubling of resources nevertheless shows a certain ambition in the objectives. this effort must also be accompanied by transparency of the programme and facilitate access for civil society, which lacks technical assistance for the preparation of project proposals, especially in the ors. i hope that in future discussions will be led by a panel of experts.
in writing. we abstained on the reports by mr corbett and mr leinen on enhanced cooperation between committees and the practical arrangements for codecision. the report is a very good report, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. but they are symptomatic of a parliamentary practice where, in the end, almost everything is decided in advance, in small committees, by interinstitutional or intergroup compromise, in the name of efficiency and rationality. they are also symptomatic of an assembly where the "big" groups, at least those recognised as such, are the rain and the shine and where individual rights of members are reduced to their most basic expression, or even non-existent when it comes to legislating. by policing its own functioning, this parliament, which is already suffering from its lack of national and political representativeness and its lack of closeness to the citizens, will permanently lose the nature that it should have: that of an assembly elected by and for the people.
in writing. i voted in favour of referring the aubert report on organic production and labelling to the committee on agriculture. in my view, it is necessary that the threshold for accidental contamination with gmos should not be the same as that for conventional agriculture, i.e. in the order of 0.9%, because in that case it would be de facto accepted that contamination can no longer be prevented or that a product, even if certified as organic, cannot be guaranteed to be free of gmos. in this respect, i supported the proposal from the european socialists that the presence of gmos in organic products should be limited exclusively to unforeseeable and technically unavoidable volumes up to a maximum value of 0.1% and that the term 'organic' should not be used to designate products with an accidental contamination of gmos above the detectable threshold of 0.1%. finally, i support the request for a change of legal basis on the issue of organic farming. the european parliament, as a consultant, intends to become a co-decision-maker on this issue, which is a step forward in this field.
in writing. organic production now accounts for 1.4% of the number of farms in the 25 member states and 3.6% of the utilised agricultural area (1.8% of the agricultural land in brittany). consumer demand continues to increase and the arrival on the market of these products with various labels, even those manufactured outside the eu, poses new problems in terms of control, certification and labelling. in addition, the subsidies or standards in this area vary widely from one country to another, which creates distortions of competition for the least assisted organic producers. i therefore welcome the adoption by the plenary of the european parliament's opinion to the council for the rapid adoption of the regulation on organic farming. the new regulation is intended to clarify the community framework for organic food production which dates from 1991. parliament called for national inspection systems to be strengthened to allow traceability of products at all stages of production. while the use of the european logo (for food containing 95% organic ingredients) and the mention 'eu-organic' is mandatory, the addition of other private logos should remain possible. finally, the use of gmos in organic production must be banned.
in writing. this report commits the european union and its trading partners to a conquering liberalism, against the background of the foundations of european trade policy. i regret that the meps are abandoning what they have advocated up to now: a trade policy which consisted of making trade agreements subject to social and environmental requirements while respecting the sovereignty of developing countries in the management of a number of sectors vital to their development (public services, investments, public procurement and competition rules). this vote replaced this policy with a strategy of broad liberalization of services and investment in developing countries, which will meet the expectations of european industrialists at the expense of economic needs for development. the principle of free trade must be a tool for development and not an end in itself. i regret that the singapore issues, which were excluded from the doha multilateral negotiations, have been reintroduced by meps in this report as priorities in future bilateral negotiations.
in writing. reading the new report of this house on the benefits of globalisation, despite the increase in unfair practices affecting european businesses, relocations and unemployment, i have a thought for the new president of the french republic. in his election speeches on europe, he spoke of the need for 'protection'. he even dared to use the word "community preference"! i do not know what mr sarkozy has done in the last five years, but he has certainly not read the reports of this parliament, nor the reports of the council, nor the speeches of mr mandelson and his predecessor. there is no mention of 'preference' except in favour of even greater opening up of our markets. there is no mention of protection, even though the eu's trade defence instruments are notoriously inadequate and used haphazardly. it is only about continuing globalisation and risk management. but the european union is not managing anything, especially not the millions of unemployed, the devastated industrial sectors and the declining agriculture. in his view, these losses are counted among the acceptable risks. i wonder whether mr sarkozy is misusing his audience or whether he is being misused himself.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president of the italian council, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing an acceleration of the process of european integration. whether it is institutional recovery, the new dynamic that angela merkel has instilled in the climate and energy sectors, or the establishment of a common immigration policy. europe is moving forward. europe is proving to be a necessary, effective and legitimate level of decision-making. mr prodi, you have told us your vision, your conception of european affairs. i would like to use you to commend the italian people's historic and more timely commitment to the project of european integration. after a long period of uncertainty, the institutional recovery is becoming clear. the german presidency is right to make this one of its priorities. if europe is able to decide in an efficient and democratic way, we can usefully decide on common policies. to move quickly and to allow europe to move forward is what the ump candidate, nicolas sarkozy, has committed himself to and it is the mandate that the french people have given to the new president of the french republic. this dynamic, which was driven by a member state which said 'no' to the draft treaty, is already being supported by several other member states of the union and must be used to move forward. this is no time for questioning. what we need now is action and flexibility. we are only four weeks away from the crucial european council on 21 and 22 june, which must lead to the drafting of a new treaty by the end of the year. it will be possible for the 27 to ratify it before the 2009 european elections. action goes hand in hand with flexibility because we have to build bridges between the 18 countries, as you said, which have said 'yes'; the two who said no and the ones who haven't said no yet. everyone will have to make efforts to bring people together, to educate them about their public opinions. we will only succeed if we stop arguing over semantic issues and concentrate on the essentials. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 and to present a report on the budget for the financial year 2000 to the council. the ep's rapporteur, mr van den broek, has already said that the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next partsession. europe needs an economic and trade identity to ensure that our partners follow the same rules as we do in the areas of taxation, the environment and social policy. europe must ensure that there is no unfair competition between member states within europe, particularly in the field of taxation. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the right track. what must prevail is a sense of responsibility and the general interest on the part of political leaders and public opinion. while remaining firm in our ideals and principles, they will only be well served if pragmatism prevails over dogmatism. and if the good will is stronger than the bad faith, then let it go. mr president, i should like to mention briefly the recent summit between the european union and russia in samara. many commentators considered it a failure for europe. for my group, on the contrary, europe has emerged victorious from this summit. winning, not against russia, which is a partner we respect, but winning in the affirmation of our convictions and our ideals. we are satisfied that our leaders have raised the european flag and have spoken out loudly and intelligibly on the status of kosovo, on energy, but also on the question of estonian sovereignty. mr president of the italian council, i will conclude on this by saying how important the euro-mediterranean dimension is to our parliamentary group. the success or failure of our european adventure will be decided in the mediterranean. investing in relations with the mediterranean basin, investing in the development of a region with such a great human potential, working for peace and stability in the middle east - nothing is more strategic for us europeans.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, three brief remarks. the first does not concern mr prodi directly but the famous 12 questions put by the presidency of the council to the heads of state or government. one of them reads as follows, and i quote: 'what do you think of the proposal to change the terminology without altering the legal substance, for example, as regards the name of the treaty?' how can the citizen who reads this not think that the european leaders take it for granted, to say the least? more fundamentally, mr prodi has just stressed that european voters must know what the role of the european parliament is going to be, whether or not there will be a permanent presidency of the european council and a european foreign minister, and how the commission will be constituted. all these questions are important indeed. but don't you hear other questions around you being asked with much more force and gravitas and to which none of you ever answers. for example, even liberal economists wonder where, in the present global context, an unfettered free trade policy coupled with free movement of capital, absolute freedom to relocate the means of production and equal freedom of movement for foreign investors, including the most predatory ones, might lead us. what changes do you propose to the community acquis in this respect? other voices, not the least of which are those against the fiscal war waged by the member states, or for a change in the status of the european central bank, or for a voluntarist industrial policy in the key sectors of the modern economy outside the rules of free competition. what break with the existing system do you consider desirable or acceptable from this point of view? is europe to be a market affair or a market policy affair? to what extent does democracy end where the open market economy begins, where competition is free? those questions are on the table. what do you think? a final word to mr barroso, who is absent today, who was pleased that, in his opinion, the 'yes' vote had won the french elections. it's a counter. the new french president is certainly a supporter of the "yes". that is why he was as afraid as you are of a new referendum. but the commitments he had to make on europe to get his refusal to consult the citizens again to pass speak volumes about the persisting depth of anti-liberal aspirations in this country. and we will remember in particular his landmark speech on this subject, delivered on 21 february here in strasbourg, entitled 'i want europe to change'. the real question is this: apart from institutional innovation, what changes are you prepared to make? (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the its group. mr president, mr prime minister, the eurocrats in the commission and council must have breathed a huge sigh of relief on the evening of 22 april: for them, royal or sarkozy, ump or ps, this was the guarantee that the european constitution, which was rejected by two peoples en masse in 2005, was going to be put back on track, in defiance of democracy. both were candidates, and both were elected, ideals. as is mr bayrou, by the way. sarkozy and royal pretend to believe, as you do, that the french have rejected only the policies of brussels, when they have also rejected that institutional part which is now being quietly passed on to us, namely the single minister for foreign affairs - the single minister who, if he had existed, would have dragged us all into the iraq war - the pseudo-elected president, the commission reduced to officials from a few states, the communitarianisation of all policies, which deprives the states of any right of veto, in short, the european bureaucratic and omnipotent superstate. in your opinion, it was even better that sarkozy was elected, rather than royal, since the former intends to have the constitution ratified by parliament, whereas the latter claimed to have some consideration for the expression of the popular will. after the appointment of a socialist minister and a state secretary for european affairs and the transfer of power between the former and the new president of the republic had barely been completed, mr sarkozy rushed to berlin to confirm the ratification through parliamentary channels, his attachment to the european superstate and his desire to be only the governor of a european province. the german chancellor can rest assured that thanks to mr sarkozy, her presidency of europe will be a success! it will be able to present in june a road map for the revival of the constitutional process and the destruction of nations and the sovereignty of peoples. mr sarkozy, elected by 53% of the french people, is already betraying the aspirations of a good part of them, and in particular the 55% of citizens, right and left, who voted "no" in may 2005. (interrupted, the speaker turns to mr schulz: "what is wrong with you, mr schulz, are you sick?" and then says: "oh yes, it is you, mr cohn-bendit, go and teach the young children!")
mr president, two years ago, almost on the same day, the french people's refusal to accept the european constitution was a death sentence. then came the confirmation of the netherlands, the british, and the czech and polish refusals. there was also the reluctance of the only two countries that voted yes in referendums, luxembourg and spain. in spain, for example, only 32% of registered voters approved the text. in short, it was the failure, then the impasse of the constitutional process, a failure for which we are mainly indebted to france. from then on, it was clear to us, french sovereignists, on whose behalf i speak here: it was france that had to be circumvented, the french that had to be deceived! well, it was done, by a gigantic ruse. in the presidential election, two candidates were pre-selected from the outset, so that, once one of them was elected and strong with a fresh legitimacy, he would say yes where the french wanted to say no. this is the meaning of mr sarkozy's unbearable gesture of rushing to mrs merkel on the very day of her inauguration. we must know that this 'yes' which was snatched from france by the presidential detour is an illegitimate 'yes'. i know very well that we will come to an agreement in the small, silent aquarium of brussels oligarchs to concoct a new text, which we will certainly not call a constitution but institutional reform, which is the same thing. but the no-no movement is not dead. let mr barroso be right, and mr prodi be right: france will sooner or later have a voice again, because france, against all odds, wants its freedoms. and those freedoms, the national freedoms, will, in spite of your poor schemes, triumph in the end.
mr president, mr prodi, our ambition is to continue the construction of europe. we did miss a march. by voting against the constitutional treaty, many french people thought they were blocking a liberal europe and hoped to influence the development of a social and ecological europe. but here, we knew, the opposite had happened. the no's have condemned our institutions to immobility, and i share president prodi's view when he says not to throw the baby out with the bath water. europe needs a constitution and the compromise reached by the convention must be taken up and improved. so if by a mini-treaty, as the new french president is putting it, we mean the constitutional compromise and the charter of fundamental rights, then yes, yes to a foreign minister. but, mr prodi, what will this minister be without a genuine european foreign policy? yes, mr prodi, the treaty will have to be improved. if it were a discount treaty and a ratification in secret, that would be unacceptable. the future of europe is a matter for europeans. so yes to a european referendum, at the same time, in the 27 countries and, why not, at the next european elections! yes, so that europe can face the challenges of today - i am thinking of climate change - that will radically transform our lives. i am convinced that our citizens understand these challenges and will be able to take this great european project forward.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, the situation in palestine sadly confirms what the sovereignists have been saying for centuries about the middle east conflict, namely that it would be wrong to believe that this conflict can be read as a simple opposition between palestinians and israelis, let alone, of course, between muslims and jews. the real dividing line, which is becoming ever more apparent, is between, on the one hand, the supporters of conciliation, as exemplified by several israeli statesmen - i cannot fail to mention the glorious name of yitzhak rabin - but also palestinian statesmen such as yasser arafat and mahmoud abbas, and, on the other hand, the fanatics, both muslim fanatics and the fanatics of greater israel, whose complicity, moreover, is no longer to be demonstrated, since it is known that extremist palestinian movements have been wanted and even financed by some israeli radicals. so there are two sides: on the one side, the side of political solution and, eventually, peace; on the other, the side of confrontation, hatred and endless war. it is a pity that, despite all the good words, the united states is playing the game of the hawks, the israeli extremists and the muslim fundamentalists, while europe, i mean the main european states, have, in the meantime, remained silent. the only european voice that was somewhat united was that of the venice declaration in june 1980, in which the europeans voted in favour of the creation of a palestinian state. but our divisions have grown more acute, and now europe can only speak with one voice once more, and then say nothing. well, it is time to free the sovereignty of the states of europe, so that they can again play their game freely in this part of the world, where a good deal of their future is at stake.
madam president, madam commissioner, the berlin wall may have fallen, the soviet empire may well be a thing of the past, the world has become a planet, but at least there is something immutable, as if history had stopped at a place, namely palestine, this palestine which is becoming the black hole of humanity: gaza, the camps, the rockets, the intifadas, the attacks, one land for two peoples, a war that has already lasted for sixty years. and what's more, an avalanche of myths, with esplanades, tombs, patriarchs, temples, mosques, monotheism and cynicism, a cynicism shared, by the way, by the hardliners on both sides, on the israeli side, technology, force, the elimination of arafat, fatah, economic strangulation, prisoners, everything, but especially not negotiations, iran rather than iraq, shi'ism rather than ba'athism, and, on the palestinian side, the hardliners obviously have the long term demographic for them. in the meantime, three generations already sacrificed and us, what do we do? well, we do statements, visits, trips - is that not mr solana? - humanitarian. that's it! this conflict is the distant offspring of the european conflicts of 1418 and 3945, and we are not doing the right thing, we are being pharisaic. we know that we must go beyond the emergency meeting, that we must stop the embargoes, that we must take action, that we must have a european camp david, with all the parties, israel, palestine and its unity government, but also syria, iran and lebanon, and we also know that we must speak of the right, both rights, perhaps the right of the state of israel to be sustainable, but also the right of the palestinian state to exist, to be recognized.
mr president, once again today we are forced to draw up the dismal accounts of the middle east. since 6 may, 36 palestinians, including 11 civilians, have been killed in israeli air raids on gaza. on the other hand, 146 rockets were fired at the israeli city of sderot, injuring 16 people. the palestinians are fighting each other. in lebanon, the 30,000 palestinian refugees in the nahr al-bared camp are suffering from the fighting between the lebanese army and the fatah-al-islam extremists. in this respect, it should be made clear that there is never a good reason for torturing civilians. more generally, we must call for a radical change in european policy in the middle east. it is no longer acceptable to refuse to give political and financial support, without exclusive, to a palestinian government of national unity which we have called for and which, if we are to believe the palestinian foreign minister we have recently received, firstly respects political pluralism, secondly does not question the state of israel, thirdly calls for the recognition of a palestinian state within the 1967 borders, and fourthly renews its commitment to un and arab resolutions, particularly on the refugee question. let us be clear: the peace initiative sealed at the riyadh summit has no chance of success if we europeans do not work to lift the political and economic siege on the palestinian government. fifteen months of blockade, 70% of the population living below the poverty line, 50% unemployment are ideal conditions for the rise of fundamentalism and terrorism but do not offer the best assets for a government to restore order and law. since we demand that the palestinian government discharge its responsibilities, let us discharge ours.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i had a feeling that this debate on excise duty rates would be exciting, and i think we have a taste of it. our rapporteur, who was not supported by the socialist group in the vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, called for courage, and she clearly thinks that courage today is to wipe the slate clean. i recognize her luxembourgish talent in the field of excise duty on alcohol, but i would not follow her in this field and join her in advocating fiscal competition or the free movement of goods in an internal market which is not one. commissioner, i think your proposal is a good one. i believe that the elements of compromise on the council's table today, which take account of the reality of the increase in excise duties as a result of the enlargement of the european union, are good and that we should support them. the amendments tabled by my group are in this direction and do not amount to a kind of tinkering, the essence of which mrs lulling has clearly not understood. the question is whether we can improve in this area. i do not think it is a good strategy to say that the best thing to do is to give up everything because the task is difficult. as regards the abandonment of all excise duties, i am pleased to note that mrs kaupi recognises that these excise duties can be useful, including in terms of public health, and that they should sometimes be maintained. beyond the particular problem of our bulgarian friends, i believe that here we as legislators must, in all seriousness and in the interests of consistency, advocate the maintenance of the weak, inadequate tools which are now in the hands of the commission so that the internal market, in its functioning, has its counterpart in the field of taxation. as you know, commissioner, my group will support you fully in your efforts to achieve this.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, in 1990 we were told that we needed interest rate ranges. in 1992, we were told that we needed floors. now we are told that floating floors are needed, and for the same reason: eugenics, the health neurosis of calvinist europe, which should lead us to impose internal customs duties, to erect tax barriers, up to almost two euros per litre of wine, for example in denmark, in britain. but if our friends in england, denmark and sweden want to levy taxes, let them do it! the mediterranean countries, germany and luxembourg apply zero excise duty rates for wine. everyone is free to take drugs rather than drink if he so wishes, but that does not solve the drug problem by taxing it. well, we don't create health care, if i may say so, by taxing it. let them drink, let them live! there are no maximum rates, no minimum rates!
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate my colleagues, mario mauro and paolo costa, on the excellent work they have done. we were concerned that the call for proposals should be able to take place and not be cancelled out or hampered by parliamentary delays. i think we are very close to the goal if we actually respect the voting instructions given by mr mauro tomorrow. i'll do that for you. i would like to say that we have done a lot of substantive work with this regulation. this regulation is much better than the previous one in many respects. i'd say it's almost a shame that we have such a great tool to deal with the shortage. why is he better? because we have managed, by concentrating funds, by increasing rates and by multiplying the types of financing, to put forward truly european priorities. we have the means to promote european achievements and therefore not just to sprinkle them on different member states in accordance with client projects. i think that is extremely important and i personally welcome it. i would like to say that i still see two difficulties with this regulation, which will therefore enter into force very soon. firstly, i say here and we shall see in practice, i think, quite frankly, that the eib is in a characteristic conflict of interest. in this house where we are constantly asked to build walls to separate the accounts of companies, is it not the case that the eib will issue loans for which it will itself provide guarantees and even manage interest subsidies? i think that's excessive. all this must be carefully controlled so that she does not use the best pieces for herself and leave the worse pieces for others. secondly, there was the question of informing parliamentarians. we have the commissioner's speech and a letter and i believe we will have the necessary documents very soon. - what's the deed? of course, i would have preferred an inscription in the body of the text. finally, there is a shadow over this project and over the programming: it is galileo. i think we need to be clear about this. we have a very good intervention regulation, but we still have to recover some 2 to 2.7 billion euros and i hope that, as with the financing originally planned, as little as possible will be spent on the elements of the financial perspective relating to the transeuropean transport networks.
in writing. the report presented to us today formalises our requirements for the implementation of the financing of the trans-european transport and energy networks (tens), in the difficult context we are experiencing where the budgetary resources for the tens have increased from the initially announced 20 billion euro to 8 billion for the period 2007-2013. however, these networks are essential for the future of the european union, helping to ensure mobility throughout the european area and the energy flows that guarantee our independence and solidarity. these major projects should also help diversify modes of transport and promote alternatives to road transport. i regret, of course, that the budget has been drastically reduced and that we have had to change the eligibility criteria. i am glad that we have managed to adapt the financing mechanisms to ensure the leverage effect of the community contribution by concentrating european funding on border sections, by developing the incentive for public private partnerships, and by means of the financing and guarantees of the european investment bank. our parliament must now be able to exercise its powers of control fully in order to avoid any waste and to ensure that the major infrastructures we so badly need are actually built.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, in a short time 37 million tourists and 110 million europeans travelling on business will see their telephone bills fall by about 70%. the text we are about to adopt will put an end to the real racket to which european consumers have been subjected for years. unfortunately, we are not sure that the prices obtained from this genuine debate of carpet dealers fully reflect the truth of costs. in the absence of reliable data on volumes and associated revenues, we still have difficulty in gaining an idea of the balance between the margins needed to keep european mobile phone companies competitive and the fair price for consumers. this regulation, particularly of retail prices, is a step forward which still needs to be improved. the prices for sms data transmission and internet transmission will now have to be controlled. finally, we regret that the millions of europeans who will be travelling until the end of august will still not be able to benefit from the new tariffs. so the operators have won a season!
mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, i think we can only welcome today the reduction in international roaming charges. however, we must avoid shortcuts and, please, let us not systematically and fruitlessly oppose the industrialists and consumers, because a rush to keep lowering the price ceilings is not only beneficial, far from it. in fact, with roaming charges that are too low, operators may seek to compensate for the decrease in their revenues by reducing their investments, thus penalising all consumers. the risk is also that domestic calls will be subject to a significant increase in tariffs. the ceilings proposed in the compromise 49 euro cents per minute for calls from abroad and 24 euro cents per minute for calls received are particularly attractive, especially as they may be expected to be lowered within three years of the entry into force of the regulation, which is to be welcomed. this is a sensible option which will allow the price reduction to continue in the longer term. this will create a competitive market with the widest possible variety of prices, allowing consumers to make an informed choice. under the terms of the compromise, customers will also have a period of three months after the entry into force of the regulation to choose whether or not to benefit from the eurotariff. if they do not indicate any preference, they will automatically be allocated the fare which is most favourable to them. the subscriber therefore has the option of not being charged the eurotariff if he has already benefited from favourable conditions offered by the operator, which is a very good thing. this pragmatic solution will allow millions of customers who benefit from lower international roaming tariffs not to be automatically subject to the eurotariff. i therefore hope that this new regulation, which is temporary in that it will expire three years after it enters into force, will make it possible to regulate the mobile telephony market, while, of course, respecting the consumer, by promoting and protecting him better, but without hindering competition and innovation in the sector.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank our rapporteur, mrs panayatopoulos, for the spirit of cooperation she has shown and the quality of her work. since the 2005 united nations summit, the promotion of decent work has been recognised as a goal of the entire international community. with its communication, the european commission has begun to address the issues at stake in this matter, particularly in its international dimension: i am talking about the union's external policies, particularly those relating to international trade, which is why the committee on international trade has intervened. i would therefore like to concentrate on this aspect and i am pleased that, through this report, parliament is taking up several concrete proposals put forward by my group, which have already been adopted in the opinion of the committee on international trade, and which would enable a new policy of the union to be launched to advance social standards worldwide. firstly, the union already makes the signing of preferential trade agreements with developing countries conditional on ratification of the conventions of the international labour organisation. we are asking that action be taken now to ensure that sanctions are imposed and that preferences are suspended for countries which seriously and systematically violate fundamental labour standards and, in particular, trade union freedoms. secondly, all future bilateral trade agreements and in particular the new free trade agreements to be negotiated under the global europe strategy must include social clauses on respect for decent work. thirdly, the multilateral dimension must not be neglected, because it is the multilateral framework, the wto framework, which today governs most trade. the commission's communication omits this entirely. the wto must therefore reopen the debate. europe could take a number of initiatives in this respect. firstly, to propose the creation of a trade and decent work committee within the wto, on the model of the trade and environment committee, which has made significant progress. secondly, to ask for observer status for the ilo in the wto. thirdly, to ask that the decisions of the international labour organisation be recognised as having the upper hand when it decides to impose trade sanctions on countries, such as burma, which are alleged to be violating trade union rights. we have made a number of other concrete proposals. i believe it is in our interest to promote a regulated globalization that... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, work for all, and decent work, that is! what is it? it is the work of young people, women and children in britain or portugal, it is the work of migrants, slaves in diplomatic missions, especially in the middle east, it is the work of employees in france, it is the suicides at work, at renault for example, it is the indecent salaries - 1,000 euros a month for cashiers, masons, workers - that just allow the workforce to be replenished and, at the end of a life of exploitation, it is the pensions of shame: 130 euros for the farmer's spouse. ten euros to put a dog in the pound, you can't even put the retired farmer in the pound! what are the causes? well, the causes are the new forms of global capitalism, which is not industrial capitalism, but financial capitalism, looking for a return of 15%. to obtain such a profit, the capitalism of pension funds, hedge funds, hedge funds, exerts three pressures: on wages, on employees who work in stressful flows, are stressed, hence suicides and on the number of employees. another cause is the immigration of workers from latin america, from africa, to el ejido in andalusia, in the workshops, in the restaurants of barcelona, in the construction sites. it's globalization, where the chinese worker at 25 cents an hour becomes the model of the global worker. what can i do? four things: social struggles, legal struggles, at the ilo, at the wto, by showing imagination, especially with deductible tariffs, political struggles and, above all, lucidity, calling things by their name: the deregulated market is capitalism and globalisation is also global financial capitalism.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to comment sufficiently on the debate that has taken place in the time available. so let me try to emphasize only the really important things. the debate showed parliament's strong support for the promotion of the concept of decent work for all as part of the strategy formulated by the european commission. secondly, this project is global, it is applicable in all circumstances and in all countries, whatever their level, and this of course also applies to the countries of the european union. it was also stressed that even within the european union, some standards are not respected in some situations, and the debate was mostly about the area of illegal work. i would like to point out that the commission has approved the proposal to combat illegal migrant work. the commission is preparing to formulate a more coherent strategy to tackle undeclared work. i would also like to inform you that in the first half of 2008 the commission will publish a monitoring report on the union's initiatives on decent work. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests is a very important one.
in writing. at a time when globalisation is causing turbulence and social injustice, it is necessary to highlight european strategies that emphasise the social dimension of globalisation. implementation of the decent work agenda is one of these strategies. decent work can indeed contribute to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, as it maximises the benefits of globalisation while reducing the disadvantages. while trade liberalisation must contribute to the goals of growth, full employment and poverty reduction, it must above all be based on the promotion of decent work for all. moreover, if it is to be a constant feature of the eu's external policies, the promotion of decent work must be the premise and condition of the eu's trade relations with third countries. in this context, it is appropriate to highlight a mechanism guaranteeing the promotion of decent work, namely the generalised system of preferences. the gsp+ is an indispensable lever for sustainable development, good governance and the promotion of fundamental social rights.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am simply speaking to point out to the house that there has been an erratum. the same phrase appears in three different paragraphs, and the parliament's services have rightly deleted paragraphs 47 and 53 of the report, since the phrase appears in its entirety in paragraph 51. i just wanted to inform my colleagues.
in writing. i voted in favour of the rübig report on roaming on public mobile telephone networks within the community, because the positions it takes will make it possible to considerably improve the situation of european consumers. many european citizens, especially those living in nord-pas-de-calais, travel frequently abroad for business or personal reasons, and the current rates for making and receiving calls on their mobile phones are excessive and unjustified. the rübig report corrects a situation which is hampering mobility. i therefore welcome the rates set out in this report: the per minute costs that have been adopted are quite satisfactory and well below those currently applied. we would have preferred even lower fares, however, which could have provided a better incentive for mobility in europe. in addition to the substantially reduced rates, the requirement of transparency is an important principle. the ep also called for more transparency on the cost of calls and for european citizens to be able to know what a call to or from abroad will cost them.
in writing. there are moments, extremely rare in this house, when members are called upon to vote on a text that is really useful for european citizens and where, for once, europe brings a real added value. this was the case a few years ago for crossborder transfers within the euro area: a european regulation required that their cost be identical to that of a national transfer. this was only logical and normal, since the single currency had just been introduced. this is the case today with the regulation on the cost of roaming in the field of mobile telephony. the text, which is not perfect, as all compromises are, will, however, make it possible to control the prohibitive tariffs charged by operators on international communications within the community. and the review clause, due in 18 months' time, will hopefully be an opportunity to go further in consumer protection.
in writing. as the report itself points out, the 1992 excise duty directive did not bring about any approximation of excise duty rates between member states, nor did it even address the alleged problems of distortion of competition. in line with its programme for better regulation, the commission, if it is consistent, should itself call for the repeal of this text. the truth is that it is up to the states, and the states alone, to set the tax, whether direct or indirect, on their territory, according to their budgetary, economic and social imperatives. and the tax harmonization sought by the commission is in fact only an ideological goal. i would like to conclude by saying that it is not a small paradox that those who campaign for the abolition of border controls, the free movement of people, goods and services and free competition are the first to complain when this abolition and freedom of movement encourages citizens to play the game.
in writing. i voted in favour of the vergnaud report. the vote on this report in plenary clearly confirmed the specific nature of health services and therefore their exclusion from the services directive. this vote avoided any challenge to equal access to care and the financial sustainability of social security systems. in my view, the debate on health services at community level must now focus on the legal uncertainties arising from the case law of the court of justice of the european union and on the areas in which the european union can create added value. in my view, a directive on health services, in line with the objective of a framework directive on services of general economic interest, remains the only tool which would enable the european union to bring its added value and restore the confidence of european citizens in an area which is the very essence of their lives.
in writing. health services are not services like other services. they should therefore not be subject to european rules on competition, state aid, public procurement or the internal market. in particular, their organisation and financing must be the sole responsibility of the member states. despite the foreseeable rejection of the paragraph calling for these services to be subject to the so-called bolkestein directive, the text of the report still seems dangerous to us. it proposed that the mobility of health workers be encouraged, as this could create shortages of health workers and thus of care for all citizens in some countries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new guidelines and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new guidelines. the objective of access for all european citizens to quality and local care cannot be achieved by a european directive based on the case law of the european court of justice adjudicating on a few crossborder litigation cases. and, to be honest, this can only be achieved if it is guaranteed that brussels will never be able to legislate in this area.
in writing. this report is an attempt to circumvent the content of the services directive which had legitimately excluded health services from its scope. health care is not a commodity but a vital service for our ageing populations. health must be free from the greed of ultra-liberal predators and the european federalist ideology which will harmonize everything from the bottom up. the question of exclusion of health services is and must remain a matter for the member states. it is also worrying that we are still referring to this smoking lisbon strategy as a necessary step, when we have known for a long time that it is a symbol of europeanist inefficiency. moreover, in view of the differences between our countries, it can be said that the universality of a so-called european social model is a utopia. finally, the creation of a legal framework in this area is tantamount to the establishment of a quasi-internal market in health services or at least to laying the foundations for it. our duty is to prevent the quality of health services from being compromised, to preserve medical ethics, to ensure strict controls on authorization and reimbursement of care at the level of nations and their ministries.
in writing. we all agree on the objectives of finally lifting the world of the south out of poverty, even if the real steps have not yet been taken for black africa. that is, the sharing of water, food, basic medicines and education. international trade as a tool to combat poverty is necessary but not sufficient. in the long run, maybe. but as keynes told us, "in the long run we are all dead". so we need to accelerate and innovate. in particular, by the invention of a new customs technology of deductible customs duties in the form of a customs credit offered by the importer to the exporter, to be used as a purchase on the economy of the importing country and equal to the amount of customs duty borne. for the countries of the south, this customs credit would be enhanced, like the matching credit or sparing credit already existing in international taxation. this would prevent the poor countries from losing the valuable revenue from their customs duties.
in writing. the negotiation of the economic partnership agreements enters a crucial phase on 1 january 2008, marking the expiry of the current agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would stress the development dimension: these agreements cannot be reduced to simple free trade agreements in the sense of the wto and must be instruments for economic and human development. the epas will therefore be as asymmetrical and progressive as possible. i voted in favour of amendments nos 20 and 28 on the need to take into account the specific features of the overseas regions and territories in the negotiations under article 299 (2) of the tec. the specific interests of these territories should be examined, differentiations in market access should be considered and the existing arrangements for support should be better coordinated with those of the acp countries. i would also like to clarify paragraph 13 of the report by recalling the conclusions adopted by the council which provide for transitional periods in the offer of access to the eu market for certain products of particular sensitivity to the eu.
in writing. in the spirit of the cotonou agreement, the epas are not just free trade agreements in the sense of the wto, but a genuine partnership to create a new economic and trade framework favourable to the acp countries. because of their geographical proximity to many acp countries, the overseas communities are at the heart of these preferential and reciprocal agreements with the acp countries. the special situation of the ors must be taken into account in the context of these negotiations, on the basis of article 299 (2) of the treaty. special attention must also be paid to the octs neighbouring the acp countries, in compliance with the association agreements which already bind them to the union, pursuant to article 299 (3) of the treaty. the specific interests of the octs and the octs should be examined, including their involvement as far in advance as possible in the negotiations, in order to consider differentiation in market access, and to coordinate their respective support arrangements in order to strengthen their integration into their regional environment. i welcome the adoption of my amendment, which seeks to strike an intelligent balance between the regional integration of these overseas territories and their links with europe.
in writing. this report by the european parliament is a step in the right direction. it makes decent work a tool of european development policy, first by co-financing with the ilo a development programme for decent work, then by creating a european label and blacklisting companies that violate basic labour standards, and finally by introducing trade sanctions against countries that seriously violate fundamental social rights. it is making progress on decent work in europe, where much remains to be done: by pushing member states to ratify ilo conventions on the safety and health of workers, maternity protection or migrant workers; by calling for the introduction of a minimum wage as a safety net to prevent exploitation of workers; by improving access to lifelong learning and by advocating better harmonisation of pension schemes. these are the foundations of the social europe that the european socialists want to build. i shall therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the promotion of decent work for all. the concept of 'decent work' seems to be a reference in terms of multilateral declarations and agreements, but policies are still far from the concept. presentations and statements are one thing; the daily actions and political decisions of international institutions are another. the world is in a "deficit" of decent work: many jobs are unproductive and of low quality, dangerous jobs with precarious incomes, rights are violated and inequality between the sexes prevails. in response to this situation, the wto and the ilo have adopted international labour standards. but the imf and the world bank do not support any initiative to ensure that the fundamental rights of workers are respected. for decent work to become a global reality, it must be a priority for all international institutions, which will need to work together to ensure its achievement. decent work must be a universal goal for all international institutions. it is imperative that the achievement of its fundamentals - quality employment, workers' rights, protection and social dialogue - determine all economic and social policies at the global level. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you, mr prime minister jan peter balkenende, for the vision of europe you have given us today, a vision which the epp-ed group very broadly shares. (protests) i see that those who interrupt me have a very good vision and that they listened carefully to mr prodi yesterday: he was ready to part with the flag, you have brought us yours today ... what a fine picture and what a fine example! europe is, of course, a currency, a large market, open borders or student exchanges. but europe is above all about ideals, principles and values, which the whole world envies us. europe is about traditions, it is about civilization, but it is also about adapting to new realities, it is about a certain idea of globalisation, of reforms for a more just society. europe is not immobility, it is movement and progress. dear jan peter, you are the prime minister of what is perhaps the most open country to the european spirit, i am not afraid to say, a country where tolerance and solidarity are the engines of social cohesion. your fellow citizens are 72% in favour of european integration, whereas the european average is 53%. however, the dutch, like the french, voted against the treaty in 2005. this certainly means that in the eyes of the vast majority of them, europe is not legitimate enough, not credible enough, not effective enough. this certainly means that they consider the european union's action to be too far removed from their daily realities. we must learn from these assessments, even if we do not share their often overly critical view. i shall not go into the merits of european integration here, we know them well. but we must persuade the europeans that our common project is not only beneficial but also absolutely indispensable. the draft treaty contained most of the answers to the questions and dissatisfactions of our fellow citizens. we must therefore take up the best part of this treatise, namely the main points of parts 1 and 2. what europeans expect from us is a better life, a europe that affirms its values in the world, as it has just done in moscow, as it must do more in the middle east, but also in darfur. by putting ourselves in a position to decide, in a way that is both democratic and effective, we will give satisfaction to the europeans because we will be able to tackle the real problems at their root. let us get europe out of its paralysis, let us give ourselves the means to achieve our political ambitions: the sooner the better and the timing of the 2009 european elections is the most opportune. let us work tirelessly in this perspective. mr prime minister, you have had the courage to make ambitious reforms in your country, long-term reforms. you have not given in to ease or demagogy, and the results are there. you have carried out these reforms with respect for the values of solidarity, openness and responsibility. that is the path my group is calling for europe as a whole to take. you have mentioned the role of national parliaments and the need for a clearer division of powers between the member states and the union. again, we can only support you. if the national members of parliament in our countries do not take up european affairs, which are no longer foreign affairs but national affairs, if our national parliamentary colleagues do not take up the european dimension of our major issues, then the road ahead will be even longer and more difficult. who's doing what? who is responsible for what policy? the citizens want to know! such clarification will prevent ministers from blaming brussels and will deprive us of an all too easy national alibi. you also raised the question of enlargement of europe, mr balkenende. we must be clear on this point too. europe can no longer attract new members until it has solved its internal problems. ladies and gentlemen, our immediate priority, and that of our governments, must be to reach an agreement at 27 as soon as possible on the institutions. angela merkel has created the necessary momentum and, despite the knock-on effects, the positions of both sides are converging. let us seize this opportunity, let us find agreement at 27 on the essential issues, namely citizens' rights and the decision-making process! (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group madam president, we all know that the development of nigeria is of crucial importance for the african continent. it is one of the largest countries in africa and, as in the democratic republic of congo, the european union has been involved in organising elections and in observing elections. however, the chaotic and violent situation in nigeria, particularly in the delta region, should open our eyes to a number of obvious and unresolved questions. as in the congo, the question of the exploitation of raw materials and oil plays an extremely important role in destabilizing that country, in the atmosphere of violence and civil war that can arise there. on this point, i believe that much more voluntary support should be given to civil society and democrats who are fighting for information and transparency on resource exploitation and also want to preserve their resources. the delta region is totally devastated and plagued by deadly conflict, and the actions of the nigerian army in this area sometimes do more harm than good. it also seems to me that the european union should make much more stringent the conditions for its development aid in the fight against corruption, for the budgetization, in the state budget, very clearly, of oil and mining revenues because it is still totally scandalous that the people of nigeria, who live in a state of great poverty, do not see the benefit of these mining and oil revenues at all! as the price of a barrel has risen, the resources should be considerable. so it is totally abnormal that we are not dealing with this issue. finally, we must also make progress on the social and environmental responsibility of large companies. shell, for example, is very present in this country, but it is not the only one.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, democracy has been on the decline in nigeria. the elections held on saturday, april 21, were marked by fraud, violence and deaths, and were neither free nor fair. all the international observers - you said it - confirmed it. these elections were a test. for the first time since independence in 1960, a democratically elected president could hope to succeed another. this is a missed opportunity! this does not bode well for nigeria, which, despite being rich, would need stability to hope to escape poverty. since the elections, violence has increased and the international community must intervene. i would remind you that last year the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to mr hauwa ibrahim, a nigerian lawyer who had courageously defended two women condemned to be stoned to death for adultery, because the sharia is observed in that country. on 28 and 29 may, a coalition of opposition parties, civil society organisations and trade unions, including the nigerian lawyers union, will hold a two-day protest against the conduct of the elections. the european parliament must support this democratic movement. this is how we will defend the nigerian people and nigeria, a great and important country in africa.
the president of the council. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your interest and for your support. i would like to thank in particular those who took on the task of observing the elections on the spot and who can describe in a very vivid and truthful way what happened there. mr kaczmarek said in his speech that an opportunity had been missed. but i would add that it is not that the majority of nigerians missed an opportunity, but that there were people who did not allow free, independent and secret elections to take place, which could have made a significant difference. we have been asked many times what we can do. you, mr van den berg, also said in your contribution that we cannot let up in our commitment to nigeria and in particular to its civil society. it is very important not to withdraw from this commitment now, but to clarify how the commitment we make in the european union can directly benefit those affected, especially civil society. the g8 summit in heiligendamm, where the nigerian president is also expected to attend, will be an opportunity to make clear once again what we europeans think about the way the elections were held and manipulated. but this first impression of what happened in nigeria must not affect our overall image of africa in a negative way. some of you have already mentioned that there are positive examples on the african continent. we have only recently seen in mauritania - even though it is not a large country - how a transition can be organised and how the appropriate support must be provided. another aspect, which was raised in the context of the eu-african union africa summit expected to take place in november, is the need to clarify the values and commitment of the european union to the african partner countries. at the same time, we must make clear in our dialogue with china what we stand for. it is not possible that on the one hand there is only a limited economic interest of china in the african continent, while many other aspects of responsible government action and civil society development remain the responsibility of the european union. i was impressed at an eu-ecowas meeting a few weeks ago by the way the countries involved made it clear that this is a step backwards for many of the small plants that have grown in the countries and will hopefully continue to grow. we also have many countries in africa where there is economic growth and good governance. i am glad that many public media outlets are looking at africa and seeing this in the run-up to the africa summit. that is why it was important for the european union and some member states to have shown their flag in securing the elections in the congo, because there are a number of countries outside the congo which are showing a good development process. so i would like to thank you again for that. i hope that together with the commission and with your support we will find ways of dealing with what has happened in nigeria. i hope that there will be change and that we can continue to support those who want a different, democratic country in nigeria.
member of the commission. mr president, we all agree that, unfortunately, these elections were a real disappointment, but i hope that democracy in nigeria will become a force in the future, and not a farce. we have a lot of work to do. i agree that it is not possible or advisable to continue with business as usual, and certainly we will not do that. as has been said by, i believe, a majority here, we have to engage with members of civil society in nigeria who are willing to change the situation and the election process. this must be part of the dialogue that we have to follow up, based especially on the recommendations of the eom. on the other hand, political engagement and dialogue with the government are also needed. such a dialogue has to be regular; it has to be structured; it has to be held at troika, or local or even higher level, and must be extended to national and regional organisations, as was done between the eu and ecowas, as was just mentioned, as well as to representatives of civil society. as regards the electoral commission, according to the observers, there were irregularities and fraud, but inec in particular failed to act independently as it is required to do. it is clear, therefore, that inec, tarnished as it is by serious doubts over its impartiality, cannot continue to be a beneficiary of edf support. issues concerning inec’s independence, mandate, structure and leadership must therefore be addressed before any decision about the continuation of our support can be taken. as regards the niger delta, which has already been mentioned by some of you, the human rights watch report entitled ‘chop fine’ on rivers state is emblematic of a situation widespread in the niger delta, where large financial resources are made available, but very little reaches the people and even less the communities in remote areas of the delta. people there have been deprived of their voices and land resources, and they are not given anything in return by the government. the threats and challenges presented by this area are left unaddressed and will, sooner or later, have serious repercussions at national and regional level. the ambassadors of the eu member states have twice submitted clear and simple recommendations. before the financial resources allocated to the niger delta are increased, total transparency should be ensured and dialogue between all the stakeholders established. articles 8 and 9 of the cotonou partnership agreement have also been mentioned. they contain all the ingredients needed to ensure the most effective dialogue not only with the government but also with civil society and the regional african organisations, as has been said. i consider it absolutely paramount that more coherent, more regular and more systematic action by the eu as a group vis-à-vis nigeria is the only possible way of addressing the questions highlighted by these elections. this should be a very strong thrust of our policy. on the other hand, we have to be careful not to push nigeria into the hands of religious extremists, including muslim extremists. china has been mentioned. when i was in china in january, i made it clear that we want to have a dialogue on africa with china. it is not so easy to do, but it is very important and, therefore, it is important that nigeria is being invited to the g8 summit in order to give them these messages directly, because we have to tell nigeria that we want our values and interests to be respected and it cannot only be a question of pure economic matters. i shall just repeat that the eidhr provides an opportunity to work with civil society. it can work without the approval of the government, but we normally have contact with the government. finally, it is also important to see what our financial funding means there. it is a mere 0.2% of the oil revenue and the total international aid to nigeria. therefore this makes the consequences of aid suspension negligible from a financial viewpoint and potentially counterproductive, as it would further impair political dialogue with the government. but, on the whole, 25% of funding is promoting good governance. therefore, we should use this part in particular in order to work with civil society, as i think we would all agree.
deputy author. madam president, mr minister, madam commissioner, the reports follow one another and are not the same, since we are now dealing with biodiversity. this week, mr minister, has been marked by the european parliament's expressed determination to combat the erosion of biological diversity. on monday we discussed the report by mr adamou and the report on life+, and today we are examining two oral questions tabled for the next meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, or cites. our committee on the environment, whose chairman, i apologize for his absence, is wondering about the member states' negotiating methods and is asking the european council what the union's key objectives will be at the 14th meeting of the conference of the parties to the cites convention, which will take place, as you recalled, madam president, in the hague on 14 and 15 june 2007. the cites convention is one of the oldest multilateral environmental instruments. it was adopted in 1973 in washington by states which were already anxious to go beyond national regulatory frameworks. the aim was to preserve wild plants and animals from over-exploitation by commercial interests. the advantage of this convention over other multinational environmental agreements is its great adaptability. it acts directly on trade through supply, which it limits. in concrete terms, it affects about 500 000 transactions - that is not insignificant, 500 000 commercial transactions! - and thus limits the overexploitation of biological diversity. through the accession of the various institutional partners, almost 170 states, including our 27 member states, scientists and ngos, the cites convention has helped to avoid the removal of particularly endangered species and to save species such as the siberian tiger, the blue whale and the african elephant. of course, the challenges facing the convention are many. on the one hand, they are structural. the convention is struggling to find funding to match its ambitions. it must respond to the overconsumption of natural species, some of which are still not listed. on the other hand, the convention must take account of new data, including, of course, climate change. it must take into account the ineffectiveness of certain instruments, such as the action plan on forestry enforcement, governance and trade, or more simply flegt, which everyone here knows. it must also review decisions that have had a negative impact on certain species: for example, at the 12th conference of the parties, authorisations for the sale of ivory from botswana, namibia and south africa resulted in the estimated loss of nearly 20 000 elephants. in the fight against the degradation of species, the european union must speak with one voice at all costs in the conferences of the parties to the convention. in this connection, i would like to remind you, mr minister, that the european union often abstains when decisions are taken because our member states cannot agree, which means that we lose 27 votes, and 27 votes is not a small number, and it is often a lot. so, mr minister, we ask the council to take account of the european parliament's resolution, which reflects the interests of the european citizens, which expresses what our citizens want you to defend in the framework of this cites convention. firstly, because the resolution calls for certain requirements to be met by the negotiators. the precautionary principle must therefore be applied with the same rigour as that imposed by the european union in other international environmental negotiations. the union must also demand transparency in voting and reject the secret ballot, which is a real practice, particularly in the case of the listing of species. in fact, it is a question of modernising this somewhat outdated procedure, which no longer meets the requirements of the citizens, who must be able to exercise their right of access to the decisions taken on their behalf. we know that ngos are constantly accusing the member states of the european union of not disclosing their votes and of voting by secret ballot in respect of certain species. we find this absolutely unacceptable and we ask for transparency, because this convention is special and the member states, as we know, have special interests in certain matters. the issues on the agenda of the conference shall be submitted to the european parliament. we don't understand why it's any different. every time a conference of the parties to the cites convention is announced, we ask the same questions to the council: we do not understand why we are not consulted in advance to find out what positions the council intends to defend at the conference. i would also ask the commission and the council to involve our parliament delegation in the work of the conferences so that we are not forced, as usual, to haunt the corridors in the hope of gathering information, and again, when the council and the commission are willing to invite us! so thank you for including the european parliament delegation in the work of the convention.
for the greens/efa group madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr gloser and mrs ferrero-waldner for their reassuring words, i would almost be tempted to say. however, i did not receive any reply on the transparency of the vote: i think it is essential for us to know who is voting for what in the european union at this cites conference. i would also like to start by welcoming the proposal made by germany to include two species of shark, the spiny shark and the taupe shark, in annex ii to cites, a proposal which has also been welcomed by many associations working to protect them. we believe that this proposal should be fully supported, because these two species, which are included in the iucn red list of threatened species, require special attention. but beyond the specific case of these species, the status of other shark species in the waters bordering the countries of the european union, in particular in the mediterranean, should also be considered more broadly, so that here both the european union and the neighbourhood policy are involved. in general, the mediterranean is a sea under threat: the unconsidered removal of fish stocks in recent decades, with the use of driftnets in particular, has led to a considerable depletion of species. the case of bluefin tuna is one example, which has recently been heavily publicized by greenpeace. but what do we know, for example, about sharks in the mediterranean? what we know about sharks is that they are globally threatened, overfished and suffering from the deterioration of the marine balance. however, does the european union have any information or studies to assess the situation of sharks in the mediterranean? that's the question! if not, can it envisage serious studies being carried out so that it will eventually be able to make concrete proposals, in particular to cites? we also believe that it is essential that red coral, which is also overfished in the mediterranean, should be included in annex ii to cites.
mr minister, i was the head of the election observation mission in mauritania. i can tell you that there is not a week that goes by without a ship arriving, running aground, asking for help, on its way to the canary islands. these unfortunates must be welcomed and sometimes, if they happen to be, they must be welcomed in mediterranean waters. i would also like to know what means the european union - the european union which is putting so much into protecting its borders - is making available to the neighbouring countries, that is to say mauritania, which is a transit country - these countries are not countries of migrants, they are only transit countries, and the host countries - what means, i say, is the european union putting in place to help these countries to manage this issue.
the president of the council. i would like to thank mr posselt for his report. i think i don't need to give you any information about the security situation in chechnya and that it does indeed make access difficult. but the council of europe's human rights commissioner also noted during a recent visit that some progress had been made in chechnya with regard to economic development. but overall, this must be made clear in a clear statement to russia, as you have described. where programmes have been launched, efforts should be made to implement them intensively so that they actually reach those they are intended to serve.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the council would firstly refer to its reply of 5 march 2007 to the written question on this subject, in which it explained why anti-dumping duties were imposed on imports of integrated electronic compact fluorescent lamps originating in the people's republic of china in 2001 in the first place. in this reply, the council also stated that the commission had initiated a review on 17 july 2006 in view of the impending expiry of these measures pursuant to article 11 (2) of the basic anti-dumping regulation and that this review would be completed within a maximum of 15 months, i.e. by october 2007. the commission will submit a proposal to the council once it has drawn its conclusions. the council then has one month to decide whether to accept this proposal. the council has not yet been consulted on such a proposal and the final positions of the member states have not yet been known to it. but i can assure you that all the interests involved will be taken into account in this decision. you will understand that when adopting trade defence measures, the commission and the council always weigh the facts and the various interests of producers, users, importers and consumers, for example, and seek a balance in order to ensure an adequate level of protection for the relevant community industry. this means that measures are taken only to the extent that they make it possible to protect the community industry concerned against unfair practices by third countries and only as long as these measures are also in the community interest.
the president of the council. i can assure you that my remarks to you were not of a diplomatic nature but were based on various considerations which the presidency is not making alone but together with the member states, since there are different interests - now the interests of 27 member states. i also made it clear that there are different users or consumers, as well as importers, manufacturers and competitors. i think it is right in principle that we have now set that target date, october 2007, to check whether the protection as it was then established is still timely or whether the european union needs to react. the case you just mentioned is not one i'm familiar with. but i think it is also the commission's practice to weigh up the various areas and then perhaps also to abolish the safeguard mechanism. the question which arises for me and the presidency, also as a result of discussions, is the following: if we did not include all these things in our balancing process, then there would be some resentment in some member states about the european union for not trying to balance different interests.
the president of the council. the agreement between the european community and the russian federation on the facilitation of the issuance of visas is to enter into force on 1 june 2007. we also had a debate on this a few weeks ago in the european parliament. the purpose of this agreement is to facilitate the issuing of visas for intended stays of no more than 90 days to citizens of the russian federation travelling to the member states of the eu and to citizens of the european union travelling to the russian federation. according to this agreement, a national of the russian federation is a person who holds the citizenship of the russian federation or has acquired it in accordance with the domestic russian regulations. this means that this agreement applies to all russian citizens, regardless of the country in which they reside, according to the current legal situation. no initiative has been taken to give the commission a mandate to open negotiations on a similar agreement with georgia. the eu-georgia action plan and the european neighbourhood policy already provide for the establishment of a dialogue on passenger traffic, in particular on readmission and visa issues.
mr president, you have given me exactly the same answer as mrs ferrero-waldner gave me three times, but you are not really answering the question. the question is whether visa facilitation should be granted to persons who, while residing in georgia, live in abkhazia or south ossetia and to whom russia has graciously offered citizenship by granting them a russian passport when these persons are georgians , so that georgians are treated according to a system of double standards. my question is this: did you consider, when granting visa facilitation to russian citizens, that those persons to whom russia has granted citizenship, with a passport, and who, residing on the territory, are georgians from abkhazia or south ossetia, will benefit from visa facilitation, while the georgians themselves do not?
in writing. reform of the intervention system for maize is a necessity. the system, which was designed as a safety net in the event of difficulties in the distribution of production, no longer plays only this primary role, particularly in hungary, but is a market in its own right. however, it should not be abandoned overnight, and it is based on a short-term study of two exceptional marketing campaigns, based on the difficulties of one country, hungary. the commission proposal is unacceptable: it is rushed and the producers will not be able to manage it under good conditions. speed should not be confused with haste. a limitation of the quantity that can benefit from the intervention system and a review at the time of the health check would be a good compromise between the need to act and taking the time to act. the solution to a local problem must be local, and the response to a radical and ill-considered measure proposed by the european commission will be that of a gradual reform, reflection, listening to farmers and re-examination on the occasion of the health check.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in favour of our colleague will be easily annulled - i can only say that, and we can regret it - by the court of justice of the european communities. why would you do that? because your case law is variable geometry! when it came to the scandalous removal of jean-marie le pen from office, you claimed national competence and did not want to make sure that the french authorities were acting in a genuine manner. you have done the same thing when you checked the credentials of our colleague mr ruiz-mateos: you have invoked the national law. now you want to defend the prerogatives of parliament! why not? why not? however, your attitude has led to a ruling by the court of justice of the european communities which, unfortunately, is unfavourable to you and therefore confirms the latin saying: "hodie mihi, cras tibi" - my turn today, yours tomorrow! parliament's case law can only be defended if it is the same for all members!
in writing. i am pleased that mr newton dunn's own-initiative report has been adopted by a very large majority. the european parliament thus makes a number of recommendations to the council on the development of a strategic concept for the fight against organised crime. the abolition of internal borders between the schengen member states is certainly a great step forward for our citizens, but it also represents an advantage for organized crime. the european union therefore has a particularly important role to play in this area. the implementation of a preventive policy and the creation of effective instruments are both urgent and fundamental. significant progress is needed to improve trust between states, and more particularly between their police services. we must also encourage our countries to allocate sufficient budgetary resources to exchange and training programmes. finally, parliament stressed the need to strengthen measures to protect victims and witnesses of crime and to promote programmes to raise public awareness of human trafficking. for all these reasons i supported the rapporteur and voted in favour of this text in the final vote.
in writing. the european union must have the instruments to combat more effectively the transnational organised crime which is unfortunately on the increase. the various areas of organised crime must lead the european union to coordinate and strengthen its action. the european union must be able to react, but it must also put in place a policy of prevention. the implementation of this strategy will provide a better understanding of the problems and tools to better combat organised crime. strengthening police and judicial cooperation, via europol, eurojust and olaf, is one of our priorities. a multidisciplinary approach is essential to understand the phenomenon of organised crime groups as well as possible. we must dismantle these organizations, bring the perpetrators to justice and deprive them of the proceeds of crime. the fight against money laundering and arms trafficking is one of europe's priorities in this fight, as these two aspects of organised crime serve terrorism.
the agenda calls for the debate on five motions for resolutions on the case of the venezuelan broadcaster radio caracas tv.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission has been closely following the debate on the future of radio caracas tv, and our concern was raised at the outset by the statement made by the president of venezuela and members of the venezuelan government to the effect that the frequency would not be renewed as of 27 may. the commission has raised this important issue with the venezuelan authorities several times. we have always underlined each state’s sovereign right to organise and regulate its own broadcasting policies, but we have also stressed the importance that the european union attaches to freedom of expression as the cornerstone of democracy and the rule of law. in its contacts with the venezuelan government, the commission has also underlined its support for all initiatives aimed at promoting dialogue and mutual understanding and stressed that licensing procedures for the broadcast media should be transparent and non-discriminatory. the commission received a letter in april from the head of television, mr granier, and members of primero justicia. it has also held meetings with the authorities and members of the venezuelan parliament and has listened carefully to the arguments and explanations offered by both sides. i wish to assure parliament that the commission is keeping a close eye on developments through its delegation in venezuela and by virtue of its close cooperation with the diplomatic representations of eu member states in caracas.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights in syria.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission, together with member states, is following the situation in syria very closely. since our last debate at the june 2006 part-session there have been a few positive developments. i would like to point out that a human rights contact was appointed in january 2007 in the syrian ministry of foreign affairs. we also consider it positive that the eu is granted regular access to trials at the high state security court, the military court and the criminal court. however, we regret that none of the promises of political openness have been transformed into action – for instance, the relaxation of the emergency law, the adoption of a multi-party law, the granting of citizenship to stateless kurds or the declaration of the national council for human rights. we also deplore the disproportionate sentences pronounced against prominent civil society activists in recent weeks. we cannot accept that they are jailed only because they have expressed themselves freely. we call again for the release of all political prisoners in syria. to give an example, all our attempts to help mr anwar al-bunni have led to a dead end. today mr al-bunni was sentenced to five years in prison merely for denouncing torture and poor prison conditions in syria and fined eur 1500 for allegedly not respecting syria’s law when setting up the training centre, also financed by european funds. for several years the commission has been supporting the modernisation process in syria through a range of activities. we have seen very encouraging results in the economic field. we sincerely hope that these will spread to the political sphere. we will continue to encourage syria to respect this obligation and the un convention on civil and political rights and torture. i am sure that the european parliament will give its support to these efforts by the commission.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights in sudan.
member of the commission. mr president, sudan’s human rights record remains a cause of extreme concern to the european commission and the eu, especially in consideration of the insecure and extremely volatile situation still existing in marginalised areas such as darfur. almost two years after signing the comprehensive peace agreement, the sudanese government is falling far short of many of the human rights commitments made under the cpa and the internal interim national constitution, signed by the president of the republic in july 2005. within the international community, european efforts to improve civilian protection in sudan focus simultaneously on both security and political civilian actions. since 2005 the commission has funded approximately 35 projects aimed at promoting human rights and democracy in sudan with a total budget of about eur 6 million. with regard to the cases of the two women mentioned in parliament’s resolution, i can assure the honourable members of parliament that the european union and the commission are following the case very closely. this case was first raised by the heads of missions meeting in the netherlands in mid-march and it was followed by the eu troika on 27 march, composed of representatives from germany, greece and the commission. more recently the eu raised the issue at the last advisory council on human rights meeting on 16 april. the court of appeal ordered that case be returned to the court of origin – the al-gezira state court – to be looked into again. although we remain firmly opposed to the death penalty, the fact that the case has been sent for retrial is at least positive and we hope that the women will be given a fair trial in line with international human rights standards. the last case which we are discussing now is the case of two boys aged 16 years old sentenced to death by hanging. various member states and the commission have raised this issue with the german embassy and are waiting for the eu presidency to take the lead on this issue in the days to come. if not, the commission intends to raise this issue directly in a letter to the sudanese authorities such as the minister of justice and the advisory council on human rights. the next meeting of eu-sudan political dialogue with the advisory council on human rights will be in early june and this could be a good opportunity to raise this case again.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on four motions for resolutions on the 'world bank president' case.
mr posselt, i take note of your statement. the conference of presidents, in full knowledge of the facts, has decided to propose four points today. i can therefore only take note of your statement and pass it on to the president, who will give it the best possible follow-up. that said, it is clear that we cannot put off this point. you know the rules: any points not dealt with today in the debate on the emergency would fall. so if you insist that we do not deal with this item today, it will fall and not be deferred to the mini-session.
mr president, perhaps we have a different reading of our rules of procedure... however, when i read rule 115, which allows these items to be placed under the heading of urgent matters, the question of the rule of law is indeed there, and if the conference of presidents has arbitrated and considered that this resolution could be included in this scheme of our agenda, it is because the situation as it has been created within the world bank raises a question of the rule of law and the functioning of the law within this institution.
ladies and gentlemen, the situation is as follows. our rules of procedure provide for the inclusion of three items on the agenda for debates on cases of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the conference of presidents proposed four, which parliament accepted in plenary on monday without any objection. the possibility of contesting exists, on the basis of article 167, this is called the preliminary question, but it must be done 24 hours before the debate. i would like to ask the president-in-office whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr posselt, i read the article: 'the intention to request the adjournment of the debate must be notified at least 24 hours in advance to the president who shall inform parliament without delay.' i'm sorry, but i have to apply this article. you had every right to ask for that point to be removed. you could have done so when the agenda was adopted on monday. i would remind you that nobody in this house on monday objected to the agenda as proposed by the conference of presidents, and the deadline for requesting the withdrawal of this item has unfortunately expired. i am very sorry, but i cannot say that the plenary was wrong on monday. i now propose that we move on to this debate, which i assure you will be very short, i have very few people on the list.
author. mr president, 60 years after the bretton woods system was set up, it is clear that something must change. two years after mr wolfowitz took over the presidency of the world bank - everyone here remembers the conditions of his appointment, which were just mentioned by the previous speaker, and which led mr wolfowitz to come here to explain himself to the representatives of the european union meeting in ecofin - well, perhaps it is clear that the europeans were wrong to be right too soon. two years later, we are faced with a situation which has weakened not only the world bank but also the entire international regulatory system, at a time when we really need it to be able to cope with its missions. in future, i propose that the european union - and this is the spirit of the resolution we are proposing - should fully assume its responsibility and its capacity to propose reform of the bretton woods system, so that its system of appointment, which ensures neither the legitimacy nor the transparency nor the credibility of the head of this so important institution as the world bank, can change. in this context, i believe that the practice used at the imf, for example, which requires a certain degree of competition between candidates and a certain degree of publicity, foreshadows a more acceptable system. for this we must have close discussions, at least with our american partners. we recalled this in our resolution adopted last month and in this connection we ask both the german and the portuguese presidencies to consider the proposals which the european union would like to put on the table. as regards the appointment of mr wolfowitz's successor, we hope that the europeans will have the opportunity to hear the candidate who is selected before he is confirmed. finally, we regret that mr barroso has received mr wolfowitz, even though his continued tenure as head of the world bank was in doubt.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission understands the european parliament’s concerns about the situation at the world bank before mr wolfowitz’s resignation. however, unlike the member states, the commission is not a shareholder in the bank; it is not a member of the board of directors and can only take note of mr wolfowitz’s decision to resign. the commission calls on the bank and its members to begin discussions to designate a successor to ensure continuity and stability in the leadership of the bank. the world bank plays a crucial role in development. the commission looks forward to a continuing strong role for the world bank and to continuing its good cooperation with this institution in development efforts.
before we close the debate, i would like to make the following statement. i understand the confusion of my colleagues who were very surprised to see that we had four items for the debate this afternoon instead of three, as required by our rules of procedure. there is a kind of telescoping between two legitimations: what is written in the rules of procedure and what the conference of presidents wanted, which was approved by the plenary on monday. i therefore call on the president of parliament to ensure that this problem no longer arises for the president of the sitting, who has had to do his best to respond to the surprise of the plenary, which i understand, since two sources of legitimacy were in conflict today. do not think that your statements have not been heard: there will be follow-up and the necessary conclusions will be drawn. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate, that is to say now.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account?
i would remind you of the rule: the number of persons required to oppose the acceptance of an oral amendment is always the same, regardless of when we vote, regardless of the time, regardless of the day and regardless of the place. on the other hand, to propose an oral amendment, only one member is needed. you can also ask for a quorum. there's a procedure for that, another procedure. but if you ask for a quorum check and the quorum is not met, i would remind you that this vote will not be adjourned, since it is an emergency vote. the text will be dropped and there will be no vote on it. that's the rule.
we have now finished with the votes.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
for the gue/ngl group madam president, in the report by our colleagues barón crespo and brok, we can read in recital h, concerning the french and dutch non-acceptance of the draft constitutional treaty, the following words: 'a large part of the reservations expressed were related to the context rather than the content and the issues that most concerned the population have been resolved in the meantime'. that's called overconfidence. the conclusion of such a diagnosis is a source of confusion. it is launched in the first paragraph, and i quote: 'reaffirms its support for the content of the constitutional treaty'. the report does indeed intend to take account of the difficulties that have arisen in certain member states, but paragraph 6 makes it clear in a very pleasant way the extent of the concessions it could make by reaffirming, i quote, 'its commitment to the completion of the constitutional process under way in the european union, based on the content of the constitutional treaty, if necessary in a different form'. the similarity of this approach to that suggested by one of the 12 questions mrs merkel addressed to the heads of state and government last month is striking. remember, i quote, "what do you think of the proposal to change the terminology without changing the substance? " these three extracts from the report by mr barón crespo and mr brok sum up perfectly the reasons why my group does not agree with the text proposed to us. it is not in europe's interest to hide the growing problems that a fundamental part of the acquis communautaire is raising among our fellow citizens, namely a number of implications of what our treaties call the open market economy where competition is free. three examples: on 22 may, at the european trade union confederation congress, the president of the european central bank, mr trichet, was able to verify this at his own expense by unanimously rejecting his thesis of wage moderation in the name of price competitiveness in an open economy. a few days earlier, commissioner mccreevy had a similar experience, this time in the council, where more and more government representatives are calling for the postponement of the liberalization of postal services in the face of the public outcry over the draft directive. and yet, a few days ago, ten industrial associations which are very exposed to global competition themselves accused commissioner mandelson of displaying a free-trade zeal, and i quote, 'to the unacceptable consequences'. it is no doubt this flood of objections that the german minister for economic affairs and finance, mr steinbrück, had in mind when he recently referred to, and i quote, 'a risk of a crisis of legitimacy of the european economic and social model'. that is why my group is strongly in favour of a very open public debate on what needs to change in the union's orientations and structures, and of ratifying the future european treaty by means of a referendum.
on behalf of the its group. the truth shall set you free, says the gospel according to st. john: the truth shall make you free. what is that truth? the truth is that you want to create a super european state, despite mr brok's denials. for, finally, a political organization with international legal personality, with a presidency which is no longer a rotating presidency, with a ministry of foreign affairs, with a single currency, with an indefinite extension of powers which are no longer allocated by pillar, with majority decision-making within these powers: this is called a european state! i understand that there are some of you, and i am sure that the majority of you, who agree with this development. but then we must have the frankness and honesty to tell our compatriots. but it is a reality, and we heard it earlier in mr brok's speech, that you are trying to hide, and i think that is not honest, it is not decent. because if you want to stay in an international organization, then why not just stick to existing treaties? there was the treaty of paris which established the ecsc. then there was the treaty of rome establishing euratom and the european economic community. then we were told that we had to merge the executives of these international organizations to give them more power. we merged them! then again, in 1986, we were told that the single european act was necessary if europe was to bear its full fruit and meet the expectations. and we had the single european act. as soon as the single european act was adopted, we were told that it was not enough, that we needed the maastricht treaty, from which milk and honey would flow. and after maastricht, there was amsterdam. and after amsterdam, there was nice. you are engaged in a process which aims to create this european superstate. it is contrary to the genius of europe, which is the space that invented freedom and independence of nations. that is why we are resolutely opposed to it.
mr president, i believe that if this parliament is to do any useful work at this stage, it must defend the charter of fundamental rights, because i believe that it will be the sick child of the results of the negotiations between the heads of state and government. i also think that the report presented to us by our colleagues enrique barón crespo and elmar brok, in paragraphs 12 and 17, opens up a way forward on which we must build. these paragraphs say that the expectations of our fellow citizens relate to substantive issues and not to institutional issues. paragraph 17 calls on the commission to modernise and adapt, with certain amendments, the text which is on the table today to take account of these expectations. that's the problem. the key is that the conclusions of the european council of 8 march are translated into our policies so that the union is in a position to function in order to implement the policies that our citizens expect. these policies are about environmental coherence, about the ability to meet our energy challenges, about social expectations. that is the reality of the issues and that is why what our colleagues enrique barón crespo and elmar brok are proposing is acceptable in my view, provided that we do not take people for fools. simply proposing a change in the presentation of the text, assuming that it is only the context that would have led some people to say no, would not be in line with the reality of the vote of those people. i hope that this is what our assembly will vote on tomorrow.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's motion for a resolution, co-rapporteur of which are my excellent german colleagues, elmar brok (epp), and spanish colleague, enrique barón crespo (pse), on the constitutional process of the european union. this policy document will be very useful to the german presidency, whose role, under the leadership of angela merkel, is remarkable, in drawing up its roadmap for the next european council on 20 and 21 june 2007. finally, the proposal recognises that the peoples of europe and their representatives in the european parliament must be more closely involved in the institutional process. if we want to move from a technocratic europe to a political europe, we must stop having a europe concocted in the halls of embassies and thus move from a diplomatic europe to a democratic europe. i also welcome the foresight of the new president of the french republic, nicolas sarkozy, who proposes a simplified institutional treaty. this is the only way forward and we hope to change our institutions in the perspective of going to the european elections in june 2009 with new rules. we must invent a plan b which never existed and reason must prevail over dogmatism and other demagogic positions. the citizens' europe is on the move.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr high representative, madam commissioner, my group was very keen to have this debate, precisely today, 40 years after the outbreak of a war in which the international community, including the european union, has so far proved incapable of imposing the only just and lasting solution, namely an end to israeli occupation, colonization and oppression in the palestinian territories conquered in 1967. mr president, i appreciated the strong words you spoke on this subject in the knesset on 30 may, both in form and in substance. i particularly remembered three key phrases from your speech. you said, "we are all bound by international law". you're right, i know. we ask nothing more of israel than to respect the resolutions of the security council, the geneva conventions, the opinions of the international court of justice, humanitarian law, as the un has just reminded us. the violations of the law are blatant, constant, massive. the first concerns the settlements, the refugees, the prisoners, the wall and, of course, first of all, the occupation of the territories and the annexation of east jerusalem. you also said, mr president, that, and i quote you, 'the creation of two states on the basis of the 1967 borders is and remains the only way to a satisfactory solution'. that is a fundamental truth. the multiplication of settlements, the construction of the wall and the isolation of the palestinian quarters in jerusalem are precisely designed to make this solution impossible. the lack of involvement of the israeli authorities in the arab league peace plan confirms this worst-case strategy. finally, mr president, you have rightly pointed out the obvious: there can be no peace without justice. the famous israeli historian tom segev recently echoed the view of his fellow citizens who have for the past forty years held that, i quote, "in 1967 israel laid the foundations for future terrorism". great statesmen like yitzhak rabin understood this, but the israeli peacekeepers, who are the pride of this country, are marginalized by the ruling power. the conclusion to be drawn from this tragic experience of 40 years of blindness is, in the view of my group, that to allow this to happen is to make ourselves guilty. let's face it. i quote you for the last time, mr president, you said: 'let us have the courage to make a new start together'. (applause from the left)
mr president, madam commissioner, mr high representative, 40 years have passed since the six-day war and the people of the middle east are still suffering the tragic consequences of it. whereas amnesty international and the united nations reports today cast serious doubt on the viability of a palestinian state because of the continuing israeli policies of occupation and settlement; as unbearable misery rages in gaza and the west bank, fuelling the fire between rival palestinian factions, and the national unity government, the last bulwark against civil war, hangs in the balance, the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us an assurance that he will not be able to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on foreign affairs and security. firstly, by recognizing the palestinian government of national unity, which we have called for, and which declares its commitment to respect all un and plo resolutions, all previous resolutions, and the quartet's demands to restore credibility to the two-state solution. secondly, by restoring our direct aid to this government, because it is illusory to rely on the israelis to release the tax revenues which are their rightful and which remain confiscated and because the temporary mechanism has run its course. secondly, the deployment of an international intervention force on the gaza-israel border, the only measure capable of establishing a genuine ceasefire, whose effectiveness and relevance have been demonstrated in lebanon. finally, and above all, by showing considerable ambition, perhaps by taking the initiative for a european camp david which has become necessary since the quartet's road map was reduced to a wishful thinking. since 1967, we have been lost in errors and injustices. will we have to wait another 40 years?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, it is absolutely intolerable that we should be witnessing human tragedies on europe's borders every summer. despite our outrage, these tragedies are repeated every year. how can the european union leave people alone in their despair at the gates of europe? the commission must ask the member states for commitments at the next jha council: we must ensure that such events cannot happen again. it is intolerable that we should have been able to debate the responsibilities of everyone when people were in danger at sea and could not be rescued. malta certainly bears a great responsibility. helping people in distress is a duty, not an option, and they were left to die. but i consider that we are all responsible for this tragedy. i have received messages from many maltese people who are heartfelt and who are suffering to see immigrants treated in this way and their country in this situation. but at the same time, they realize that their little country is abandoned. i would therefore like to say that these events demonstrate the lack of european solidarity in the management of borders and the reception of migrants. it is intolerable that the burden should fall mainly on the countries of southern and eastern europe. europe must show solidarity and ensure that the burdens and responsibilities are shared by all member states. i therefore call on the member states to give more resources to frontex so that the missions at sea can begin before the end of june and be widely developed, particularly in the mediterranean. i was pleased to hear that the dublin ii regulation evaluation will be presented to us in the coming days. that's what we've been told recently. we have been asking for it for several months, although today it is no longer an evaluation that would be needed, but a rapid revision. the dublin ii regulation is clearly not suited, especially for a small country like malta. finally, we ask the commission what is the state of play in the immigration talks with libya. recent events have shown libya's inability to provide relief to migrants and people in distress. we have said it before and we will say it again: the european union does not have to abdicate its responsibilities to a country that does not apply the appropriate standards for the protection of fundamental rights.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i agree with all those who have said that words alone are not enough, we must act. and the council has acted in recent months. the council has ensured that the central technical register, the frontex toolbox, has been replenished, that frontex has, in principle, more than 100 vessels, aircraft and helicopters. the council, with the support of this parliament, has made it possible to adopt the regulation on rapid reaction teams, on rabits. there will be a frontex operation in the waters around malta, where we will try to deal with this human tragedy with the help of experts from the member states and with the help of helicopters from the member states. but i also say that it would have been better if we had started these actions a few weeks earlier. we must all take up this responsibility together. we have also agreed in recent months, on a proposal from the commission, to set up regional protection programmes in the countries of origin and transit. we have taken concrete action by agreeing to conclude partnership agreements and by talking about incentives for legal migration, for circular migration. we are negotiating readmission agreements with countries in africa and other countries. all of this is going in the right direction. but it is also true that many of these measures are late and that the people concerned would have been better off if they had been taken more quickly and efficiently. i think that this is also due to a lack of efficiency in the decision-making procedures in the council. it is a pity that the european constitution has not yet entered into force, because the european constitution and the reforms it provides enable us to take the necessary decisions much more quickly and efficiently. we must ensure that in the coming days and weeks we meet our humanitarian responsibility towards the people affected. we will also have to make sure that we do not abandon malta. malta is a small country with a great deal of responsibility in the area concerned. that is why malta is entitled to the solidarity of the european union. thirdly, we must be careful that in everything we do we do not create new pull factors which lead to more and more people coming to europe, because otherwise we run the risk of not reducing but multiplying human misery. i am therefore convinced that the council will find the strength to send a clear signal at its meeting next week.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what mr altmaier said. the council of ministers will certainly have to deal with this issue in a genuine and political way next week, so i will not repeat the many positive things that have already been done. all the honourable members of parliament will remember that only two years ago there was no document for a common european action on immigration, today we are talking about how to apply the documents and principles as a result of a political consensus that did not exist before and that exists today. progress has been made, but not everything has been done with the speed that would have been necessary. as some have mentioned, we have had a large financial increase for frontex, eur 35 million for 2007, but eur 13 million is blocked, so it cannot be used and the related expenditure cannot be committed. i thank you for what you said about parliament's commitment to release these funds for frontex soon. the tool box, that is, the tools available to frontex, was sufficient. i said just that a few weeks ago, after reading the declarations of commitment by the interior ministers of 19 european countries, and i said then, at the end of may: we have over 100 boats, over 100 patrol boats, 25 helicopters, 20 planes at our disposal this summer. but what i said today is also true, that since the formal commitment was made, we have one tenth of the equipment promised. i will say to the ministers and my colleagues in the council that the commitment made must be translated into immediate availability. if we had not five, but 50 patrol boats, maybe one ship would have arrived first to rescue people who were drowning. an italian ship and then a french ship had to intervene to retrieve the bodies of the victims and take them to france. perhaps if there had been a greater presence we would have done so sooner, this is concrete solidarity, we must be sincere. it is also essential to remember that where frontex has worked, i am referring to the canary islands, last year for example, the budget was positive. i cannot help recalling that the spanish minister of the interior, at the end of the autumn season last year, declared a reduction of about 30% in the migratory flows to the canary islands thanks to the frontex patrols in collaboration with a third country, in this case senegal. when operations work, the results are visible. as regards the central mediterranean, libya was visited by us a few days ago. a frontex mission went to libya to explore the possibility of helping libya to control the southern border with niger, the desert border. we have made it very clear to libya that we expect more controls and above all respect for the territorial space for search and rescue on the high seas, which libya is also obliged, like everyone else, to respect. the mission will be called nautilus ii, it will be directed to the centre of the mediterranean, it will leave as planned in a few days' time and i obviously hope that as many european states as possible will take part in it, not just the mediterranean states. the german government has given a signal, it is not a mediterranean state but will participate in the mission in the centre of the mediterranean, then there will be mediterranean states - i would like to see my country, italy, for example, participate, which has so far given no indication that it wants to participate in this mission which will take place between sicily, malta and libya. i would like to give you a concrete example of the appeal for solidarity which i will of course make to my fellow ministers, but i would also like to remind you of it. the last item is the dublin regulation: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the report was published today and adopted by the commission. it indicates the functioning of the dublin regulation mechanism, the regulation has worked properly, but the commission suggests some additions, that is to say, it suggests that we should consider whether the principle that only the first country of destination is obliged to provide accommodation is the right answer, or whether that principle alone can be the right answer, or whether it can be supplemented by a better burden-sharing. this is also the subject of a proposal adopted today by the european commission, a green paper on asylum policy by 2010, as requested by this parliament. the proposals are there and i still expect a gesture of solidarity. of course, if the member states say by a large majority that the system is fine, then it will still be the first country of destination that bears the whole burden, and that is not solidarity. this is another example of how the dublin regulation must also be interpreted correctly, not to accuse anyone but to work together.
in writing. how many more bodies will we have to fish out of the mediterranean before effective solutions are put in place? let us stop pointing the finger at small countries like malta, which can no longer cope with the constant flows of immigrants washing up on their beaches every day. this is not how we will fight illegal immigration. no barbed wire, no barriers will stop men and women, willing to do anything to provide for the vital needs of their families, from crossing the seas. in september 2006, parliament had already launched an appeal to the member states and the commission in a resolution adopted by all the political groups. we stressed the need for stronger partnerships and dialogue with countries of origin. we also demanded the revision of the dublin ii regulation, which places too heavy a burden on the countries of the south and east of the union. there is an urgent need for a fair mechanism of solidarity and responsibility-sharing between all member states. moreover, we can only note the lack of results from frontex. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european agency for safety and health at work is a step in the right direction.
the rapporteur. mr president, police and judicial cooperation is a priority for the european union in order to combat organised crime and international terrorism more effectively. we agree. however, more police cooperation implies an increased exchange of data between the competent authorities of the member states. the european union must, however, provide a level of privacy protection at least as adequate as that guaranteed under the first pillar. this will strengthen the principle of mutual trust which is the cornerstone of police and judicial cooperation. if all competent authorities know that the data they receive is completely reliable and that the data they transmit is protected in the same way as in their own country, they will no longer hesitate to exchange information. so this joint discussion is positive. i regret, however, that the council has not taken into account the need to link the adoption of the framework decision on data protection and data-sharing instruments such as sis ii or the visa information system, vis. as we have said on many occasions, the european parliament will not be able to continue discussions on further data exchanges without eu-wide legislation on data protection. that is why i regret the way in which the prüm treaty was negotiated and concluded, apart from all the existing instruments at european union level. we are certainly very pleased that the german presidency has made it possible to transfer it to the european union's competence, in particular to ensure democratic control of the european parliament. but it is still unacceptable that we have been consulted urgently on this treaty which has certain implications for the protection of the privacy of european citizens. the prüm treaty includes some provisions on data protection, but these are still insufficient. the adoption of the prüm treaty should also be conditional on the adoption of the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar. that said, i would like to thank the german presidency for its efforts to unblock the framework decision on data protection in the council. i have very much enjoyed the very constructive contacts i have had with ministers schäuble and altmaier and i would like to thank them. i would also like to thank commissioner frattini for his effective support. we can agree that the framework decision is a first step towards data protection in the third pillar and must in no way allow a lower level of protection than that provided by the council of europe convention 108 and its protocols. i hope that the council will take our compromise proposal on the scope of the framework decision as a basis. in fact, an evaluation in three years' time, commissioner frattini said, will enable us to show in practice the need to extend the scope to data processed at national level. i would also remind you that parliament is absolutely in need of addressing the issue of access to and management of data by private individuals. we also strongly believe in the need to establish the adequacy of data protection for any transfer to third countries. i would point out that this is not a question of drawing up a list of countries with an appropriate level of data protection, it is not a question of that, but of establishing the adequacy of data protection on a case-by-case basis. the german presidency has recognised our legitimate concern by adopting a political declaration attached to the vis. the commission stated that the council continued to give priority to the adoption of the framework decision on data protection as soon as possible, by the end of 2007 at the latest. in conclusion, i would like to remind the council that it made an initial political commitment to the swift adoption of this text in december 2005 during the discussion on data retention. today i can say that the european parliament is very hopeful that the council will honour its commitments.
the committee on budgets mr president, since mrs gibault is not available this evening, she has asked me to first of all convey to you her apologies and regrets for her unavailability and then to present this important report to you in her place. if there is a universal bond that unites us all, as european citizens, beyond our differences, it is culture. europe is now winning its case, having played its role as a resistance bloc against globalisation in order to preserve its identities and cultural diversity. the cultural exception of europe is now becoming universal. the report gives her the opportunity to do so, through my speech tonight and all the work she has done. in this connection, she would like me to thank on her behalf all the fictitious rapporteurs and all the many colleagues who worked with her and contributed to the final drafting of this text. the theme of the situation of artists in europe was a natural choice for her, since it was particularly close to her heart because of her profession and her work as an orchestra conductor. like albert camus, she is convinced that we must choose to place culture at the heart of our social project, that we must include the creation and free access to culture among our european priorities. contrary to popular belief, most of the difficulties faced by artists are not purely cultural but are often linked to mobility, visa policy, health, social security, unemployment and retirement problems. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. it has devised a european professional register to combat illegal work and also a european social security card with electronic chip to facilitate the re-establishment of artistic careers. claire gibault also proposed the publication of a practical guide for artists which would, in parallel, cover the social rules concerning them, as laid down by the european institutions, and their application in the various member states. finally, she stressed the need to promote art education in schools, since for her, as for all of us, this was a real european cultural challenge. but without the european union's willingness to put in place a genuine policy on art education, it is easy to imagine that the conquest of audiences and the democratization of access to culture will not progress. the report was therefore voted unanimously on 7 may in the committee on culture and education. it is innovative and represents a real breakthrough for artists, since it takes into account both their precarious situation and the need to maintain the flexibility of their activities and offers solutions that allow artists to envisage their future in a more sustainable way and, therefore, with more serenity. tomorrow, amendments will be put to the vote, including two which claire gibault is very keen on, because they would give a new impetus to artistic creation and would revive risk-taking in the sector, which is badly needed today. as the report says, in order to make progress on these aspects, we must first analyse the results of the commission's study, taking into account the advantages and disadvantages. community law, when studied more closely, has not been as indifferent to culture as one might imagine. in her report, claire gibault took up an idea already developed in their time by victor hugo and alfred de vigny, according to which artists, beyond their death, can continue to contribute to the support of their contemporaries. the international provisions to which the union has acceded allow member states to take the necessary measures to protect their cultural heritage, which consists, inter alia, of creations in the public domain, that is to say, those which are released into the public domain 70 years after the death of their author and 50 years after the first dissemination of a work by its performers. claire gibault has been thinking about this idea. it proposed that, in a spirit of cultural solidarity at european level, it would be sufficient for the member states to examine, each for its own part, how to allocate part of the income generated by the commercial exploitation of works to artistic creation and the improvement of the social situation of european artists. this would allow for the emergence of new supports to foster innovation, pluralism and encourage new forms of cultural expression. there is a very beautiful image of intergenerational solidarity. in conclusion, let me quote the words of victor hugo, who spoke in public before the french parliament: 'we are all one family, the dead belong to the living, the living must be protected by the dead'. what better protection could you possibly want?
mr president, i would like to thank our colleague for her report, on which i agree with anne jensen. i would like to mention tonight just one of the fundamental points which i believe this report highlights: the one concerning information policy, which makes it possible to communicate effectively with the half a billion citizens we now constitute together. i would also like to say that i am in full support of the proposed budget for the new policy on local media. that said, ladies and gentlemen, we must provoke a new form of european public debate which transcends national borders and is necessary throughout europe, and for this we must put into practice three major projects. firstly, the european parliament's internet television channel must quickly become a reality that brings us closer to our fellow citizens and that makes our work more transparent. secondly, we must make use of all the new means of communication. for example, i am organising an internet discussion forum from brussels tomorrow with high school students from dijon as part of a franco-german project. thirdly, as a corollary to my point, i would say that the creation of the brussels visitor centre should not mask the lack of infrastructure for the reception of visitor groups during plenary sessions held at parliament's seat in strasbourg, and that this should be considered.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, an agreement on the institutions is needed on 22 june, an agreement which will allow europe to decide to act in the areas where the union is needed, as the presidency and the commission have said: climate, energy, immigration, security, foreign affairs. in the face of globalisation, our countries, our citizens must be actors and not spectators. and if action is our driving force, if we europeans are the heirs of a civilization and bearers of values and ideals to influence this changing world, we must give ourselves the means to do so. on 22 june we expect a comprehensive agreement on the outlines of a new european treaty which will make the union more efficient, more democratic, more readable and, above all, more transparent. whether it is called a treaty, a simplified treaty or a fundamental treaty, ratification is expected before the next elections in 2009. we want a treaty which meets the expectations of the countries which have ratified the present treaty, of those who have said no and of those who have reserved their response. the epp members believe that this cannot be a minimum or a default treaty. we need an ambitious, realistic treaty, one that is up to the challenge, one that respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. this treaty must give full weight to the parliamentary dimension of european integration. this treaty should give the european union legal personality, provide for the unification of the rules of the three pillars, and settle the question of a permanent presidency of the council and its minister for foreign affairs. this treaty must extend the scope of majority voting to avoid paralysing the union by the exercise of the right of veto: reluctance must not be an obstacle to those who want to move forward together. this treaty must make the charter of fundamental rights, the foundation of the rights and freedoms of citizens, legally enforceable. it must also equip europe with the legal tools needed to meet the new challenges. the agreement of 22 june must be based on all these fundamentals, towards which the demands of our countries and our fellow citizens are converging. my group would like to pay tribute to chancellor angela merkel and minister steinmeier for the efforts they have made to bring this reform forward. ladies and gentlemen, democracy in a state governed by the rule of law requires parliamentary representation. if the heads of state or government decide to set up an intergovernmental conference, we believe that the parliamentary dimension should be a very important component. i am thinking of the european parliament, which will be represented by eminent and qualified personalities, but i am also thinking of the national parliaments, which must make their voices clearly heard in this process. our parliament will, during this part-session, express a strong and detailed position by adopting the brok/barón crespo report on the interinstitutional developments in europe. our president will state his position at the council meeting on 21 and 22 june. i have no doubt that this will be widely heard and reflected in the conclusions of the forthcoming summit and igc. ladies and gentlemen, europe has an obligation to achieve results. we are confident that the german presidency on 22 june, as it has done previously on climate and energy, will allow political will to prevail over scepticism, that it will be able to move europe forward on a matter that is certainly technical but essential, to enable us to decide on the real issues and on the real values. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, i should like to begin by congratulating the chancellor on her determination to inscribe in the berlin declaration the urgent and immediate need for a genuine institutional revival in the european union. i would also like to stress the importance of nicolas sarkozy's contribution to this debate, because even before he took up the responsibility of president of the french republic, he was the first to suggest the idea of a simplified treaty, which seems to be the most appropriate hypothesis to get out of our impasse. our parliament must do everything possible to help the member states to strengthen europe's capacity to act with institutions which would have the means to provide answers to our fellow citizens in terms of efficiency, democracy and coherence. the idea of a simplified treaty must meet the requirement of a more compact and accessible document than the constitutional text. but this simplification should not be seen as a renunciation or a 'go-go' on any account. we want to reach a consensus on an ambitious and realistic solution to bring together all the member states: the 18 who said yes, the two who said no and all those who have not yet voted on the draft european constitution. our challenge is not to arrive at an ideal treaty, but to build a compromise at 27 for a united and pragmatic europe to move forward, with the aim of breaking out of the present stalemate as soon as possible. i hope that at the european council on 21 and 22 june you will find, mr minister, an agreement with the heads of state and government defining a precise mandate for a rapid intergovernmental conference, under the portuguese presidency, to draw up a new treaty which will make it possible to strengthen the union and give our fellow citizens greater confidence in the future of our continent. i am confident and optimistic because everyone is now well aware of his responsibility in unlocking a situation which has had a negative impact on the whole of european construction. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i welcome the arrival of plan b, b as brok and b as barón. we have a complicated treaty, we will have a simplified one, but it should not be too simplistic. i will take two examples: the symbols and the charter. it says that the symbols will disappear: the anthem, the flag, the currency. this is not good news because the french people will see that the result of their vote will make the flag disappear the moment the president of the french republic puts it on his official portrait. and the symbol is important. it's a sense of belonging. at least try to keep the flag. as for the charter, i would like my compatriots to have three texts: the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen of 26 august 1789, the universal declaration of human rights of 10 december 1948 and the charter of fundamental rights of 29 october 2004. it's a whole, it's a whole. we must aim at belonging and not argue about sovereignty or loss of sovereignty, and there must not be too much regression, even if there is a little. as for the french, think of those who said no and will be disappointed, but also think of those who said yes and may be frustrated. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, there is a big difference between being called a fool and a liar. the epithet "fool" does not imply the attribution of any specific facts. in criminal law, it is therefore an insult and, as such, the epithet of idiot must be banned. on the other hand, when our colleague helmer said that mrs merkel had lied, he was blaming a very specific fact: a written directive in which she recommends that the substance of the constitutional treaty be preserved by changing the terms in such a way as to mislead public opinion. our colleague helmer has therefore only made legitimate use of his right to criticise, however sharply. and i condemn the truly totalitarian drift, but i am not surprised by it, of our colleague schulz, who ends up wanting to deal in a disciplinary way with all opinions that do not agree. this is unacceptable in a parliament which must remain a place of debate, even if the debate is very lively or critical of the presidency! (various reactions)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that i have had the great pleasure of drawing up this report and i thank all the colleagues and all the fictitious rapporteurs. this report was unanimously adopted by the committee on culture and education on 7 may. i am proposing two new amendments today, which i have put together with distinguished colleagues who have been ministers of culture. i would stress that the measures contained in them will not be proposed to the member states in their final form until we have the results of a study which i have requested in my report and which will be entrusted to the commission. in the light of the information we will then be given, we will have the opportunity to analyse together the advantages and disadvantages of these measures and to take the most appropriate decision. i wanted to say that i was very shocked yesterday to see a lobbyist, who i think is pretentious, wake up after having had my report for two months and call my colleagues to ask them to vote against these two amendments. i think that this attitude is unacceptable and i hope that all those who supported me on this report will not be impressed. i think it is our honour as members of parliament that is at stake and i hope that you will have confidence in me as an artist and support the two amendments which offer hope to european artists. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my excellent colleague from the epp, mr reimer böge, on the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund to the tune of some eur 24 million for our hungarian and greek friends following the floods in those member states and their populations in march and april 2006. while we regret the delays, many of which are due to the member states themselves, we should welcome the usefulness of this fund, which has a maximum annual amount of one billion euros.
in writing. in the fight against terrorism, it is absolutely abnormal that it is so difficult for national police forces and counter-terrorism authorities in the various member states of the european union to cooperate together and exchange information. however, it is now known with some certainty that the attacks of 11 september and 11 march in madrid were planned, at least in part, on the territory of the union. these attacks have demonstrated the ineffectiveness of europe's instruments and policies in the fight against terrorism. terrorism knows no borders, nor should the fight against it, and intergovernmental cooperation in this field must be urgently strengthened. the same applies to controls at the frontiers of the member states: they must be re-established as soon as possible, since they are the bare minimum for an effective and efficient fight against terrorism. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. a new political-religious ideology is on the march in europe and the muslim world. it is a fertile breeding ground for terrorism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the main part of the report by my colleague, mrs maría isabel salinas garcía, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down specific rules for the fruit and vegetables sector. this important sector, which accounts for around 17% of the union's agricultural production, is in reality very diverse, fragile and facing structural problems, while also being exposed to increasing external pressure. it deserves support, not only for the producers but also for reasons of public health, the health of european consumers, and for our agro-food processing industry. the european commission's proposals are an initial basis for work which will need to be corrected and improved on many subjects. that said, i welcome the specific attention the union is giving to this important sector.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on the barón-brok report on the continuation of the constitutional process for the european union. the rejection of the european constitutional treaty by two member states effectively makes the proposal submitted for ratification by the member states in 2005 obsolete. this fact must therefore be taken into account by the heads of state and government, who cannot maintain the original text even 'in a different form'. the process of drawing up a new treaty must not continue at the expense of european democracy through a mere intergovernmental conference.
in writing. i believe that the majority of the european parliament has not tried to respond to the message of the peoples of the european union who have rejected the constitutional treaty. by rejecting amendment no 1, parliament has refused to allow the people to be consulted by referendum on any new treaty. this is essential because it affects their ability to impose social policies or policies which meet their aspirations. this is a major shortcoming of the european union. that is why i shall vote against this report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i do not object to that, but i would like to ask whether someone from the commission or the council could make a brief statement on this very sensitive situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals. since this is an extraordinary situation, it should be possible for the council to make a statement as well. is that possible?
mr president, we know that there was no agreement between the member states on the way galileo should be financed at the last transport council. this highly symbolic project can help europe to assert its useful independence in the field of satellite communications, but in the absence of private commitments, €2.4 billion is needed to complete it. this shows that public power is absolutely indispensable when it comes to large-scale collective projects. where can the money be found? i suggest that we use the european financial commitments which are not used by the member states. the european union has been a major donor to the countries of central and eastern europe, and has been a major donor to the countries of the mediterranean. it is this resource, which is the most painless for europe and for the states, which would enable the european union to play its full role as an investor in the future.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the commission for its commitment to closing the gap in the broadband technology sector, which is seen as a factor in accelerating economic and social integration and reducing discrimination. access to this technology at an affordable price throughout the union appears to be an essential factor: firstly, to guarantee a quality service; secondly, to promote the competitiveness and productivity of the union as a whole, while respecting the environment, since some physical journeys become unnecessary; finally, to enable the development of a knowledge society by integrating everyone into the information and communication society. the report by mr hökmark contains some good points, for example, when it focuses on education and the computerization of schools. it all starts with initial learning and access to tools in the places where basic learning is provided, not forgetting the older audiences. i am thinking in particular of universities, training centres and so on. the development of internet health services is another particularly important area, with a treatment protocol and easier single follow-up. finally, the effort to make e-government services accessible facilitates procedures: this results in time savings and greater proximity to optional services. i thank the rapporteur for the attention he has paid to the remarks we have made, which were aimed above all at taking into account, in practical terms, the expectations of our fellow citizens, so that the technological response will improve their daily lives. we have addressed the issue of broadband in relation to the union's objectives in line with the mandate given to us by our parliament, to ensure that everyone has access to it and thus make it a factor of economic, social and, of course, also territorial integration. however, i regret that more emphasis has not been placed on the development of the regions and that more has not been done to ensure access for the most disadvantaged groups - the elderly, the disabled, in particular. we must do everything we can to improve access to digital culture and to offer content that meets the needs and expectations of all audiences. no matter how fast technology is, it's always how you use it that makes the service better. broadband access for all is thus a good thing. but we also need public places, free if possible, with broadband access so that people can become familiar with these technologies. ict is indeed a special commodity that can be considered as a resource because it fulfils a real social and cultural role. we have just heard mrs kroes say that they could be considered as a service of general interest. i not only support the idea, but also the perspective it offers: the introduction of broadband is a matter of political will and not just a matter of developing competition.
mr president, we have talked a lot about whisky and vodka. i'll tell you about the rum. within the european union, it is only produced in the french overseas departments and madeira. it is a drink that is heavily consumed throughout europe; it is therefore imported from many third countries, primarily the acp countries, which enjoy special treatment under the cotonou agreement of 2000. rum is one of the main export products of the overseas departments. the sugar cane and rum sector alone accounts for more than 40% of the value of exports and 40 000 jobs in guadeloupe, martinique and réunion. the issues involved in the community definition of rum are therefore very important. the aim of the proposal is to obtain a definition for dom rum which would enable it to be better distinguished from its competitors in third countries, in particular by the mention of agricultural rum produced exclusively from sugar cane juice, a quality mark recognised by consumers. for the acp, it is also important that this definition is consistent with the union's overall approach to their rum industry to support their growth and not jeopardise the progress made so far by producers in the caribbean region. it was in this context that the professional organisations representing producers in the french overseas departments and the caribbean countries agreed, in october 2006, in barbados, to a common position on the community definition of rum, starting from a generic definition and gradually specifying it between traditional rum, agricultural rum and confectionery rum. i would like to thank horst schnellhardt who listened to my request for an adequate definition of agricultural rum and who finally decided to take up in his report this definition already contained in the council's compromise text. the production of agricultural rum has been able to be enhanced thanks to the considerable work of the whole sector over the long term and this denomination is today one of the main guarantors of the commercial opportunities for this product in the french overseas departments. this is why we can hope for the adoption of this compromise at first reading, which is now before the house for approval.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, as you know, this meeting between the european parliament and the commission is an important moment from the point of view of competition policy, since it is the moment when we evaluate one of the most important policies in the commission's hands, whereas for the rest we are only defining the general framework within which you take this or that decision. the report we are presenting to you this year is a balanced report, but it will be necessary to complete it, particularly on the question of what 'fair and undistorted competition' means in the very terms of the treaty. the situation in the business sector, where work is developing more and more subtly, which, in the name of flexibility, is probably leading to the renewal of trainee contracts month after month and to an accentuation of the imbalance between trainees, in the name of access to vocational training, and those who are covered by labour law, is a real issue in terms of competition, an issue which you must look at closely. in addition, we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs are concerned about the conclusions to be drawn from the sectoral surveys you have carried out, particularly as regards the potential impact on the structure of certain market segments. i am thinking, among other things, of the situation of community banks, the mutual sector in relation to that of retail banking. but we also want you to look at other areas, perhaps more difficult to address. i would mention three of them which are at the heart of our concerns: investment banks, credit rating agencies and audit firms. we believe that if competition is to be free and undistorted, we must also dare to look into these sectors, as the commission has sometimes done with players of similar size. on this basis, you can count on our support, without ever forgetting that competition policy cannot be an end in itself: it is at the service of a european union strategy. this strategy of the european union is now defined both by the lisbon strategy and by the objectives set out on 8 march last, namely the fight against the effects of climate change and the desire to give the european union the capacity to conduct an independent energy policy.
on behalf of the its group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question we were asked was whether we should prohibit or restrict the trade in dog and cat fur in the eu. i congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mrs svensson, and also the legal affairs committee, which has been asked to give its opinion on this matter, for having opted for the first solution. it is high time that member states were reminded that dogs and cats are pets and that the trade in their fur and fur products should not be accepted, or even tolerated. the introduction of such a ban in europe and the provision of effective and dissuasive penalties for infringements is a minimum today. indeed, fraud and deception are rife, especially from asia. for example, the misleading label "leather" or "real fur" is used on most asian-made garments, such as coats, hats, handbags, gloves, shoes, as well as on toys, decorations, and small leather goods. in order to put an end to this despicable trade, every citizen in europe must adopt responsible and ethical behaviour by requiring, among other things, the labelling of all leather, fur and fur products, as well as of all questionable foodstuffs and pharmaceuticals. let us all refuse to support countries which do not respect human rights and dignity and which, moreover, have no regard for animals.
madam president, we are returning to the import of skins from 2 million slaughtered chinese dogs and cats, just as we had returned three times in the 1990s to the import of fur from animals from the far north caught in jaws traps. each time, whether it is for seals, dogs, cats, foxes - forgive me for saying this - the commission has bought time and allowed trafficking to continue in the name of the religion of the market. we should never forget that in march 1996, even with the proof that mad cow disease is transmissible to humans, the commission threatened sanctions against four german länder which refused to import suspected cattle. the lesson we can take from all this is that there is a logic of the market that wants everything to be a subject of sale, purchase, profit: dogs, cats, kidneys, eyes, women, children, slaves, workers... that is why politics must command economics to restore these great values that have no price.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think what you heard today is the analysis, and we all agree with that. it is certainly the mistakes of all concerned that we are bitterly paying for today. we, and i mean the palestinians in particular, but i also believe the israelis and all those who are interested in this, that there can be some future in this region, not just a peaceful future, but a future at all. i would like to confine myself to the question: what can be done? firstly, the european union must finally wake up and act in the face of the mistakes that are being made here. the european union must act because it is the only political entity capable of mediating. the americans are not because of the iraq war, nor are the russians, etc. we must take an initiative which means: yes, yes to direct payments, yes of course to support, yes to contact gaza, hamas, to address the humanitarian situation in gaza. not waiting for an explanation, but taking action and then getting the explanation, that is the command! that means going directly to the nation on behalf of the european union and then going directly to a european quintet - which is basically an attempt, without being mentioned by name - and holding a big conference in the region. martin schulz is right: we must talk to syria and to all those with whom we want to and must negotiate anyway, when it comes to the golan heights and the borders of lebanon. this has to be done now. why would you do that? because it's the only chance for hope to spring up in the region. where there is hope, political dialogue will be possible, not the other way around. you're always warned that one side is going to advance. no one in the region will be advancing. these are the lessons we must learn from this. this means that there must also be a clear humanitarian response to gaza. nobody cares that the humanitarian aid is coming from iran. because then we'll cry again and say we didn't want this. if we don't want it, we'll have to stop it! if we want to prevent it, we have to act! that's the order of the day. and israel must understand that an occupation policy based on a wall it considers unjust will not bring peace or hope. israel must finally see this. the worst thing to do is to do what has not been done so far, namely to negotiate with the new palestinian government clearly on a security line beyond this wall and the rebuilding of the wall. that means financial aid, humanitarian aid and political initiative. if that doesn't happen, we'll meet here every month and weep and weep.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in the face of the tragedy unfolding in the palestinian territories, calls for an end to the violence are completely ineffective if we refuse to see the genesis of this announced catastrophe. this unprecedented explosion of violence is first and foremost the product of other violence, that of forty years of military occupation. it is the result of the impunity granted by the entire international community to israeli leaders, whoever they are and whatever they do, in total disregard of international law. this violence is the ransom for the loss of all hope for a palestinian state worthy of the name. and what a heavy responsibility european leaders have! europe is said to be the first donor. all right, but what good is aid if we allow the deadly poison of permanent humiliation to proliferate, which the situation in gaza illustrates to the point of caricature and which a lasting isolation of gaza would only push to the extreme? what a responsibility to have, by aligning with the deadly strategy of the white house, squandered historic opportunities such as the arab league's peace plan since 2002, the success of the first democratic process in palestine in 2006 or, more recently, the constitution of a last chance national unity government! we are a number of people here who have sounded alarm after alarm. the latest is a call by more than 100 mps to end a policy that, with government boycotts and the withdrawal of direct aid, is cultivating the despair of a people on the verge of implosion. we were reassured by the quartet's intentions, a decoy set up by the bush administration to cover up its laissez-faire. but now the un special envoy to the middle east himself is making a real case against all those, including europeans, who practice what he calls 'self-censorship' towards the occupier and whose recent decisions to boycott and freeze aid have had, he stressed, devastating consequences. such a historic failure and such a repudiation by the un's top representative in the region calls for an exceptional debate at the highest level. if we do not want to be complicit in the creation of a new iraq, we must urgently demand a thorough strategic review in strict compliance with international law, as everyone should have done for the last 40 years. history will judge us for this.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would of course first of all like to welcome the excellent report by mrs diane wallis, under the firm leadership of mrs mcguinness. the investigations of the committee of inquiry into the crisis in the equitable life insurance company have highlighted the damaging consequences of a weak implementation of european legislation, which is itself insufficiently precise. the damage suffered by the insured must therefore be repaired and the procedural obstacles to their compensation removed. i therefore support the conclusions of the report, which call on the uk government to take responsibility and design an appropriate system to compensate equitable life policyholders in the uk and abroad. this painful case should be an incentive for us to improve insurance legislation so that consumers can maintain their confidence in insurance products and, more generally, in financial services. our parliament will be able to participate in the debate on solvency ii on investor protection. this directive, which will deal with the prudential rules applicable to the insurance sector, should, to this end, provide for early warning systems for national regulators and for the european insurance regulatory authority. in this type of directive, parliament, the council and the commission should, as the report recommends, use the least possible or even, if they can, refrain from using the exceptions or derogations. the member states must be careful not to impose additional national requirements when transposing community law and thus avoid over-regulation. the transposition of directives in the insurance sector, as in other sectors, should also be better monitored. this requires the commission to be proactive in monitoring the quality and effectiveness of the legislation transposed. moreover, closer cooperation between the european parliament and the national parliaments would be a real factor in this respect.
mr president, we are all concerned here with drawing up good legislation and ensuring that it is properly transposed. in this respect, we are in a school situation. clearly, the transposition was not up to the quality of the legislation. we have to improve this situation. secondly, i note that in britain the conclusions of this situation have already been drawn since some of the supervisory bodies have been changed as a result of this case. perhaps we need to go further. thirdly, progress in europe must be made when it comes to crossborder activities. we will not make progress in this area without reflecting on the supervision of operators offering financial products in several member states of the european union. fourthly, we need to improve the product placement strategy. you can't sell any financial product under any conditions. and there will be no integrated market for financial services without an improvement in the way financial products are offered to customers, otherwise cases of abusive or inappropriate sales, misselling, will increase. fifthly, the committee of inquiry asks the committee on economic and monetary affairs to follow up its conclusions. there is no doubt that, even without waiting for the conclusions of this committee of inquiry, the question of the implementation of the directives, the question of improving the solvency of financial undertakings and the quality of supervision of financial markets are at the heart of our daily concerns. however, it is clear that this case will only increase our determination to do so. finally, the question of the right of victims to appeal. of course, this is not about allowing class action. however, if we are serious, we must also, in the context of legislation protecting investors and savers, improve european legislation when it comes to defining the remedies for victims.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if there are any areas which must remain entirely within the national competence and responsibility, it is education and the family. the first recital in the preamble to the report states that the member states have exclusive competence in these areas. but the problem is that in the following paragraphs he tries to show that it is up to europe to act by promoting active policies facilitating, for example, the reconciliation between studies, training, private life and family life. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council. it is up to each state to know what its policy should be in these areas and to carry it out. we do not have to be dictated by any european text on measures based on morality, religion or fundamental principles or values. but in small ways, through recommendations, regulations or even directives, brussels interferes in national politics without the people's permission or even request. this systematic propaganda, especially in the family and educational spheres, is aimed at destroying the traditional concept of the family unit consisting of the mother, the father and the biological children they have had together, in the name of unlimited freedom and without moral rules.
member of the commission. mr president, i am pleased to note that the commission and parliament share the same opinion on the importance of reconciling working life and family life, particularly in the context of promoting equality between men and women. this is true, as this parliament initiative emphasises, before and after young people enter the labour market. it is too soon to turn to the follow-up to the consultation and reconciling working life and family life. this is the time to listen; the time to reach a decision is still to come. the commission will consider the outcome of the second phase of consultation, any negotiations between the social partners and an extended impact assessment. it will then decide whether it is necessary to put forward proposals supplementing existing legislation relating to reconciliation.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
in writing. the changing world of work, the fragility of certain sectors such as industry, the explosion of the service sector and the increased mobility of the workforce are all phenomena that require the european parliament to work towards greater protection for workers. as early as december, mrs bachelot's report created a european globalisation adjustment fund, and it is in the same spirit of taking into account the rights of workers that the directive on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of the employer was introduced. each year thousands of employees lose their income, sometimes for months, because their company goes bankrupt, creating so many distressing situations. this directive will codify all the rules relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of the employer and will apply to all employment relationships, whatever the type of contract. the completion of the internal market, which is sometimes wrongly accused of increasing insecurity in the labour market, can, on the contrary, be the source of genuine legislation and the creation of a system of protection for employed workers. and this report, which i support, is proof of that.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve the applicability, legibility and clarity of labelling of spirit drinks. the spirits will thus be in conformity with the new technical requirements, in particular with the rules and standards of the wto. the aim is to enable european spirits producers to preserve their geographical indications of origin on the world market. the definition of 'agricultural rum' was retained in the negotiations. producers and consumers approved the compromise reached, particularly as regards quality criteria. in the french overseas departments, the definition of 'agricultural rum' distinguishes it from its competitors in third countries. produced exclusively from sugar cane juice, the name 'agricultural rum' is a guarantee of quality recognised by consumers. the solution found on the question of vodka also preserves the name 'traditional vodka' produced from cereals, potatoes or molasses without prohibiting production from other agricultural products. in the latter case, the labelling must bear the words 'vodka produced with ...'.
in writing. i regret that the hökmark report did not take up the many suggestions of the committee on regional development, for which i was rapporteur. it thus puts to the side the initial concern of the european commission that 'despite the general increase in broadband connectivity, access to remote and rural areas is limited due to the high cost of low population density and remoteness' and hence the search for solutions. we must recognise that in some eu territories - remote and rural areas and new member states - there is a market failure which justifies intervention by the public authorities and in particular by local and regional authorities through the structural funds. i have already experienced this in the limousin with the dorsal project. i am therefore pleased that the two socialist amendments have been adopted, which restore the reality on the ground, because it is in these remote areas that icts are most needed and useful, as they make it possible to overcome distances by facilitating relations between users and services - customers and suppliers - administrations and public institutions, and to reduce the costs and time of service provision.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hörkmark report on the development of a european broadband policy, as it is very important to encourage initiatives that promote access to the internet for all, and to knowledge in general. in line with the lisbon objectives, it is essential to develop information technologies, including broadband. although access to new technologies in the most remote regions is an objective to which the european union must devote itself, it is also necessary to take account of the persistent gaps in new technologies within the same region. there are still many villages that are too far from urban centres and still do not have access to the internet or have access but too slow and do not allow satisfactory connections, while the whole region to which they belong is generally well served. in the interests of cohesion, these infraregional disparities should also be better taken into account in order to combat the digital divide.
in writing. the dynamism of regional economies depends heavily on the level of development of information and communication technologies, including access to high-speed internet via broadband connections. the union must undoubtedly play a major role in promoting, among its member states and regions, the fight against the 'digital divide', in order to reduce the gap between individuals, businesses and territories in terms of access to the knowledge society. public aid, delivered through public-private partnerships, must be targeted primarily at underserved areas. wireless, mobile and satellite communications can bring broadband to areas traditionally excluded from fixed networks, thus offering interesting and inexpensive solutions for people living in remote or hard-to-reach areas such as island, mountainous and, of course, ultraperipheral regions (upe). in the ors, these technologies are even more useful than elsewhere, since they make it possible to overcome distances and reduce costs and time by facilitating the relations of users with their service providers, customers with their suppliers, or even administrators with their public authorities.
mr president, commissioner louis michel, today's debate requires us to consider with clarity the extent of the road we still have to travel between now and 2015 towards the achievement of the millennium development goals. it is worth recalling here how essential these objectives are in the context of development cooperation and that they must also encourage effective and coherent aid. as the deadline approaches, the meagre results achieved, particularly in sub-saharan africa, require us to be demanding and to redouble our efforts in order to meet our promises. in the face of the challenges, the european union must play its full political role in strengthening the means of development and the effectiveness of its action on the african continent. 2015 is fast approaching. so now is not the time to lose heart or give up. as the world's largest provider of official development assistance, the european union has the means to help the countries of the south to stabilise and benefit from economic, social and human development. so if we have the means, let us now consider the tools of efficiency, so that the aid we give will have tangible and lasting results. this requires the involvement of all actors. this is not charity to these countries, but development aid. there are many promises made about the achievement of these fundamental goals. in this context, it is worth noting the commitments made at the very disappointing g8 summit, which decided to allocate €44 billion in aid to the fight against pandemics in africa and reaffirmed the 2005 commitment. but let us hope that these promises are not mere words. to achieve this, these initiatives must now be translated into concrete and measurable actions. we must act now. let us intensify our efforts in a spirit of partnership so as not to miss the 2015 meeting.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is always frustrating to have to react in such a short time to a flood of considerations which were, for the most part, very correct: i very much share the considerations, judgments and ideas which i have heard. first, about the g8. i am very disappointed that this is becoming more and more of an enchanting exercise, and i regret the following: the more enchanting the exercise becomes, the less credible it is, and one day we will ask ourselves whether it is really useful. i think i heard someone on the left of the benches ask the question of the representativeness or the representative legitimacy of the g8. i think that's a question we should be asking. it is obvious that whole sections of geopolitical and demographic realities are missing from this representation and that is a bit of a pity. the g8 is increasingly becoming a beauty contest and it is obviously extremely sad to see that the very concept is being discredited from the moment that promises repeated year after year are not kept. we can always get some positive things out of such a meeting, but that is not enough to take away our conviction that it is very useful and sincere. i must necessarily work in an impressionistic way by responding to some of the strongest considerations that have been expressed. first, on hiv/aids: the two main channels of disbursement of the european community's financial assistance in the field of the fight against hiv/aids are support to countries to strengthen the health sector, particularly in africa, and the allocation of funds through thematic budget lines. we're putting every resource at our disposal into it. health programmes in 21 african countries are worth 396 million euros, with a further 62 million planned for the coming months. i do not conceal from you that it is through thematic budget lines and the acp funds of the eighth and ninth edfs that the community contributes to the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria, in which we have been vice-chairmen of the board of directors. since the fund was set up in 2002, the european community has disbursed a total of 522 and a half million for the period 2002-06. with the contribution of the member states, the european union is the largest donor to the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria. a word on climate change, in reply to a member of parliament: i fully share your concern about the threat that climate change poses to developing countries and their efforts to achieve the millennium development goals. i believe that climate change issues must be integrated into development cooperation. in 2003, we already adopted an eu action plan on climate change and development, which we are implementing jointly with the member states. progress in the implementation of this action plan is currently being examined and shows that, while it has been a good basis for joint action by the european union, the way it is currently being implemented does not really match the importance or scale of the challenge. i therefore intend to launch a strategy to deepen our collaboration with the developing countries most affected by climate change. the aim is to work towards a global climate change alliance, which will strengthen dialogue and cooperation between the eu and developing countries on emissions reduction and adaptation to climate change. i will share with you the details of this proposal in a short time. it is concrete. i shall not dwell too much on the economic partnership agreements. just know that i am one of those who are convinced that there will be no real development - in the sense of wealth creation that can finance social services, of financing all the great access to state services - in the absence of access to trade, and economic dynamism. so the economic partnership agreements, as we envisage them, as we perceive them and as we implement them, are strictly development policy agreements. the priority is not the commercial dimension, it is development! we are aware of the differences of opinion that may exist between some of us on this issue. i think we should take it. the decision to conclude the epas before the end of 2007 was taken jointly by the european union and the acp. the debate and controversy which it has generated have been very useful, because they have made it possible, in particular, to accept longer transitional periods, to recognize the specific nature of certain sensitive products, and also to accept the principle of financing from regional funds, to accompany the shortfall in revenue following the abolition of tariff barriers. it is a question we shall come back to, but it is probably thanks to the debate which has been launched here in this house, in particular by mrs kinnock and others, that the commission, the partners and those concerned have come up with much more flexible proposals, which take greater account of reality. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the i believe that debt relief helps finance development. there is nothing extraordinary about this position. it is simply based on our common framework of reference for development policy, on the european consensus which the european parliament and the commission approved just a year and a half ago. the european consensus refers to the oecd definition of official development assistance and includes debt relief. the european union has also committed itself to finding lasting solutions to the problem of unbearable debt. that said, mrs kinnock, you are obviously right. everyone else can hope it comes in handy, me first. and you are right that it is really a one-shot deal and that, if countries are to meet their commitments, they will have to increase in real and absolute terms the amounts they spend on their development aid policy in the years to come. this is the message that the commission sent to the member states in its communication of last april. as regards the amendment of the oecd rules - a matter which has been raised recently - i do not think it is necessary. i would add that, in my view, to call these rules into question would risk opening up the debate on the eligibility of other financial contributions which, in my view, have nothing to do with development policies. i don't intend to say more on the subject. everyone understood exactly what i was thinking. on an important point, namely social and human development, i would like to say - and i say this all the more readily as mr deva, who has spoken on this subject, is a man whom i hold in the highest regard - that i do not share your view. the commission supports policies and actions that enable men and women to make free and informed choices about the number and spacing of births, and that also enable them to have access to quality family planning and sexual health services, as well as to qualified staff during childbirth. unfortunately, i do not share your position, which seems to me far too radical and does not seem to take the concept of individual freedom sufficiently into account. there is a philosophical difference here that must be accepted. we are different, mr deva, we are not necessarily all the same and i think that the argument of authority and the argument of one-sided submission should not be used. if i can understand you saying that you can't submit to an abortion or the idea of an abortion, i think you can't submit to a religious a priori. at least that's my point of view. i would like to mention one more point which i think is important and which concerns the effectiveness of aid. in my view, aid - international aid, european aid, etc. - will become much more effective when we have a little less of each other. - besides, i am not looking to impose responsibilities - concern for our own flag. i think that when we really look at the goal, which is to alleviate poverty and help the poorest people on the planet, rather than who does what and how each person gives visibility to what they do, i think that on that day, we will be much more effective. that is why we are working and moving forward with a code of conduct to try to get the member states to accept greater coordination, greater convergence, to make the division of labour more coherent, because we will necessarily gain in efficiency. but i must tell you very honestly, because i hear you well, that almost everyone shares this view and, moreover, governments, ministers, prime ministers, when we hear their speeches, make it one of the permanent leitmotifs, transversal to these speeches, that in fact this is far from the case. we have carried out joint upstream analyses for the national strategy papers, we have proposed joint programming. today i can tell you that for the programming of the tenth european development fund i can estimate that there are about ten member states which have decided to participate in joint programming, and not all of them. i have very few cases of common programming. that is the objective, of course. the goal is not who does what, the goal is who does it best. i have already had the opportunity to say that the commission does not want to take over everything. the commission is prepared to delegate responsibilities and to co-finance those responsible, i would say, for pilot countries on certain themes or projects, as long as they bring in more added value than ours. that is what we must try to strive for. i remain optimistic because i think that it is in moving forward that we will prove that if we want to be effective, we need to be more coordinated, more convergent, more harmonized, because that is the key to efficiency.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote on the glenys kinnock report will take place tomorrow.
the agenda calls for the report by mr thierry cornillet, on behalf of the committee on development, on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2006 (2007/2021 (ini)) (a6-0208/2007).
the rapporteur. mr president, i will give you some figures on acp activity in 2006. we met twice, in vienna and bridgetown, as is fitting for the assembly. just to slip something about bridgetown: bridgetown happens to be in barbados, barbados is considered a tourist country, which is true for the whole of the caribbean. so naturally the press jumped at the opportunity, saying that the meps were going to the caribbean. it is quite difficult to run a joint assembly without going to the acp countries, and it is true - this applies to the caribbean as well as the pacific, and even to some african countries - that there are some among them which also have a tourist vocation. is that a reason not to go? that would be totally inappropriate to these countries and would reduce acp activity to what it is not. another figure: nine resolutions were adopted, i will not mention all of them, only a few will shed light on problems that will arise in the future, such as tourism and development, avian influenza or the energy problem in the acp countries. another figure: seven joint delegations, including one that gave speeches, the one that went to tenerife and malta, on the problems of migration. i would like to highlight a few points from this year's activity. i would like to speak about the emergence and even the increase in the participation of non-state actors in the work of the apa. this is a very welcome development, even though these actors often take part in parallel events. however, it is undoubtedly a positive addition to the work of our assembly. i have had the honour of being vice-president in charge of this until the next bureau, and i think it is important that this post should be filled. another point about epas: i have seen commissioner michel's passion on this subject. here too, the epa has played a major role in monitoring the negotiations, in particular by making it possible for the european parliamentarians to be informed about each other, so as to have a better knowledge of the acp countries' situation, and our acp partners to be informed about a number of fantasies emanating from certain agencies, which presented the epas as what they are not, namely a liberal trojan horse or something else, and i thank commissioner michel for reminding us that this was a matter of development policy and that the epas were not locked up, contrary to the rumors that were circulating in the corridors of the epa. finally, we have heard the chief negotiators and the commissioners on this subject, which has enabled us to improve our knowledge of the subject. i shall not go into the substance of the matter of darfur, which, as everyone can see, is unfortunately far from exhausted. i would simply like to point out a perversion: the use of separate colleges. at the first session we had a joint resolution on darfur adopted in vienna, while in bridgetown we had a separate vote requested, which stopped the resolution, as our acp colleagues did not adopt it. they have yielded to pressure from a number of countries. in the report i suggest that this practice be abandoned so that the joint parliamentary assembly can be a genuine joint assembly, in which only democratic rule can play a role. as regards the parliamentary dimension - i shall come back to this at the end, commissioner - i would simply like to remind you of the commitment you made to forward the strategic documents to the acp countries, of course, and to the european parliament. i think it is important that our acp colleagues are involved. finally, as regards the rise of the african parliament, i believe it is very important that we have a partnership with this african parliament and, in parallel, with the au. i believe that a delegation has been there and that we have made a commitment to receive its chairman. another point is the strengthening of the sub-regions in the acp countries. there are four regions in africa plus the caribbean and the pacific, and it would be very interesting to strengthen the sub-regions, knowing that, in the case of epa, only a regional approach will allow for real implementation in the interests of everyone. finally, i would like to conclude on the parliamentary dimension: it is absolutely essential that we, european parliamentarians, and more particularly our acp parliamentary colleagues, should be interested in what the joint parliamentary assembly could become in its function as a source of information. such a function would involve strengthening the acp secretariat capacity. it would require prior training and an increase in the interest that our parliamentary colleagues should develop, particularly in the edf, in the implementation of the edf, but also in the construction of integrated national and regional plans, in national strategic documents, in the edf and in the epas. we welcome the allocation of part of the edf funds to the training of parliamentarians so that the apa can deal with people who have structures, who have ideas and who still have the information to make the apa useful.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the joint parliamentary assembly is becoming an increasingly strong pillar of cooperation between the european union and the acp countries. i have personally attended all the meetings of the pap since i became commissioner for development and humanitarian aid. i am fully aware of the distance this institution has travelled. the assembly now has an increasingly parliamentary character and nature, with more open debates and less regional tension. the app has demonstrated its ability to address a wide variety of issues and to reach agreement on sensitive issues such as post-conflict rehabilitation, sustainable resource management and economic partnership agreements. the excellent report by mr cornillet and the committee on development accurately reflects this development. you highlight the progress made, but you also mention the problems that still need to be solved. the report also points to the challenges that lie ahead. i thank you for your appreciation in article 2 of the commission's expressed willingness to submit the strategy papers to parliament for consideration. you obviously regret that this was not possible, but you are no doubt aware that, following our position on this matter, the member states have managed to agree to incorporate a new provision in the regulation implementing the tenth european development fund. this provision provides for the transmission of acp strategy papers to the joint parliamentary assembly for information purposes at the same time as they are sent to the member states meeting within the edf committee. i welcome this solution, which in any case takes into account the specific features of the edf, because the apa is an institution explicitly recognised by the cotonou agreement and is therefore best placed to monitor the smooth running of the programming process under the 10th edf, and in the absence of its budgetisation. it also represents an opportunity for the apa to show that it is capable of playing a genuine political role in our cooperation. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the government and parliament of barbados and the austrian presidency on the excellent organisation of the ppp meetings last year. we will be meeting some of you again next week in wiesbaden, germany, for the next meeting of the pap.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i also wanted to welcome the report on behalf of my group, the greens/efa. however, i think that the analysis of the work of the apa must be above all political. in this respect, can we be satisfied with the situation of the acp after years of development policy in which the union plays the role of the largest donor? that's the question we're asking ourselves. and what progress has been made in democratization? as we make regular visits to these countries, we can only observe that poverty is growing and that democracy is more than just beginning to take shape. but even if our work - as mr cornillet said - is going well within the acp, it must not be the tree that hides the forest, because we have the means to go further, further in mutual respect of our european interests and, of course, with regard to the acp countries' expectations. and there is hope, the process of democratic transition that has begun in mauritania is an example of that. it will still be necessary - and here i turn to the commission - for the union to honour its commitments to help the mauritanian people make a successful transition and return to an honourable life. the support of the app for the mauritanian assembly could be an example. i would like to stress, commissioner, the fight against poverty. we have spoken at length about this: it must be said that this struggle is being fought by resolving environmental questions, which are still insufficient - and here i am addressing mr cornillet - and which have been taken into account in our work. i would also like to mention the report on sustainable development which we have produced as part of our work on the action plans currently being put in place by the countries. what are we doing to stop the desertification that is driving hundreds of thousands of africans to flee to squalid slums or to risk their lives to enter a hypothetical european eldorado? the question is raised and the answer is awaited.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the member states and commission officials, we agree with the general inspiration of the cornillet report, which strikes at the corner of common sense, good will and good feelings, which, it must be said, are most often wishful thinking. but let us emphasize one point: the too great contrast between the importance and even the seriousness of our relations with the african countries today and the indifference of the european oligarchies, and in particular of this parliament, towards our south. yes, my dear colleagues, we sin out of indifference. there is no common measure between the interest of the issues, sometimes minuscule, which take up more than nine-tenths of our debates and votes, and the gravity of the growing imbalance between the european continent and africa. i say africa, because i do not think that the acp should be too much widened, since the main focus should be on the initial core of the lomé agreements, which is and must remain sub-saharan africa. the question is perhaps too genuinely political, too crudely political, to be dealt with by supranational institutions which are by their very nature too weak to deal with matters other than technical ones. from this point of view, it is quite normal that we should turn to the states and that we should ask, as the cornillet report does very well, for greater involvement of the national parliaments, because by wanting to discuss the major problems at european level we would end up not dealing with them at all, while disengaging the states. yes, mr cornillet, the solution, here as elsewhere, is to trust the states and the genuinely democratic institutions of the national parliaments.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr thierry cornillet, on his excellent report. it expresses with force and clarity the considerable work done by the joint parliamentary assembly in 2006, which, by the quality of its work, has, i believe, established itself as an essential actor in the dialogue on north-south cooperation. this assembly has made its point by speaking forcefully in vienna on darfur, by clearly identifying responsibilities and proposing a road map for resolving the crisis. it also made its point when speaking on the crucial issue of the economic partnership agreements in bridgetown. the message is unanimous: these agreements must remain instruments for development, as commissioner michel has just said in the previous debate. the political weight of the joint assembly will be further strengthened in the coming months by the commission's commitment to give it a say in all national and regional policy documents in the acp area, as well as by the regional conferences which the assembly can now organise to provide concrete answers on very important thematic subjects such as migration. in the face of these new powers - even if they are not really powers - we must ensure that this house has the means to do its job. i want to say to the commission and the commissioner that we will have to find together flexible and effective ways of working together on the right of access procedure which is required for policy documents. it's heavy, it's difficult, we'll have to answer it now. i also call on the working party on the reform of parliament to take account of the specificities and constraints of the joint parliamentary assembly, because today, in drawing up the parliamentary calendar, there are some incompatibilities in the way it works. finally, i would like to pay tribute to glenys kinnock for the way she is co-chair ing this house.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, i cannot answer all the questions, but the commission shares the view that national parliaments must play a crucial role in defining national policies and development strategies in our partner countries. that's to answer mrs kinnock. i agree with that, of course. we just have to find a way to do it. i do not know whether it is my role, for example, to ask the national parliaments of our partner countries to react to national policy papers. the respect for institutional non-interference still exists and, therefore, i do not know very well how it is possible to organise. i was counting heavily on the joint parliamentary assembly to act as a relay to the national parliaments, but i can assure you that i am quite willing to look at any solution to see how this can be improved. i would also like to say that the troika has made it possible to make progress in the preparation of the joint eu-africa strategy. it is an exercise in which the european parliament is closely involved. on the basis of the agreement reached by the troika, the commission will adopt a communication on 27 june on the objectives of this strategy and the way forward to its adoption at the eu-africa summit in lisbon, scheduled for 7 and 8 december. my services are in constant contact with parliament, both on the content of these documents and on the organisational aspect. i attach great importance to the participation of the three main institutions of the european union in the elaboration of these strategies. i would like to stress that one of the innovative aspects of this strategy would be, for example, to launch a genuine partnership between the peoples. i would therefore like to involve the parliaments - the european parliament, the pan-african parliament and the national parliaments of africa - in the implementation of this strategy on a permanent basis. i'm open to any suggestions. we could imagine, for example, a joint hearing of the european parliament and the pan-african parliament, a joint meeting of the european commission and the african union commission. one could imagine logistical and political support for the pan-african parliament - this is already planned - and support for the african national parliaments, which is feasible. there are parliaments in eu member states that do this. we're just getting started. so we can work together to succeed in this important challenge. i will respond to two comments made at random. mr van orden, you mentioned the case of zimbabwe in connection with the european union-africa summit. what matters to me today - while i share, at least quite widely, your judgments about president mugabe - is that the european union and africa can hold this summit. i would remind you that there has not been a summit of this kind since cairo, although there was an africa-china summit. so, what matters to me is that our summit takes place. someone also mentioned sanctions against sudan. i have to tell you that i would not see a problem with sanctions if i could be shown that they are useful and do not penalise the population. generally speaking, i'm rather reluctant to sanction. i believe much more in positive sanctions and i believe much more in pressure. i am not convinced that it is the moment when president al-bashir accepts hybrid force, particularly in darfur, that the spectre of new sanctions should be raised. sanctions, we know that they can be taken at any time, and i am not sure that the sanctions that some people think are necessarily useful. mr. mitchell talked about access to a title deed. this idea has been developed extensively by mr de soto and i am following this matter very closely. i'm actually part of an informal working group where, with madeleine albright, we're working on this idea of title deeds that you're probably familiar with. i am very much in favour of this idea and i am looking for ways of contributing to it through the european development fund. experiments are under way and i think this is a very interesting and very important track if we want to be effective.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the agenda calls for:- oral question to the council on the fact-finding mission in the regions of andalusia, valencia and madrid by marcin libicki and michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-0030/2007 - b6-0127/2007), and- oral question to the commission on the fact-finding mission in the regions of andalusia, valencia and madrid by marcin libicki and michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-0031/2007 - b6-0128/2007). i think that, like all my colleagues, i am obliged to deplore the absence of the council, which will not be there to answer the questions put by the members of parliament.
member of the commission. mr president, many petitions on this issue show that buying real estate can be a real challenge. the cases mentioned raise a number of complicated legal issues that relate to property law. this is the exclusive competence of the member states; the commission cannot interfere with this. any redress in this respect must be brought before national authorities and we cannot create false expectations on the part of the petitioners. however, where cases raise questions of european law, the commission takes its role as guardian of the treaties seriously, where we establish whether there are infringements of community law. in our view, this is the case regarding public procurement legislation. we have already started infringement actions about this. we intend to pursue these actions with a view to obtaining full compliance with community law.
i have received, in accordance with rule 108 (3) of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. (the sitting was suspended at 5.35 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, this is a battle that must unite us all. it's a matter of public health, even public safety. we know the dangers, the harmful effects of mercury, which weigh heavily on the health of those who are exposed to it. since the industrial age, the problem has only worsened to unimaginable proportions. since minamata and the horrors of that industrial disaster, we have learned even more that mercury is terribly dangerous. yet we went on as if nothing had happened, or almost nothing. during all this time, the indigenous peoples in the gold-mining regions, such as french guiana, have continued to pay a heavy tribute to the god mercury, as have those on the other side of the planet who recycle, under unimaginable conditions, our industrial, electronic and other wastes, not to mention the workers in europe who work in battery recycling plants. yes, it is high time we got rid of this poison and there is only one solution, a complete ban here and elsewhere in the world, because this poison is everywhere, including in the bodies of polar bears, for example, who live where it is neither produced nor used. i regret that my group's proposals for a more rapid ban were not accepted and that underground storage was not rejected. however, it is no longer time for regrets, but for the widest possible majority to banish this dangerous metal once and for all.
mr president, mr council representative, mr commissioner, this is the fourth time that the european parliament has been called upon to give its opinion on the euro area, either in its original composition or in the context of enlargement. the euro is not a small thing for our citizens: it is one of the european union's most precious assets in their hands. however, since last year, since the opening of the debate on lithuania's accession, we have the impression that it has become a debate from which all political questions must be excluded and in which only purely technical arguments can be put forward. in this debate, the european parliament is asking to be allowed to arbitrate such a decision in the normal way. and for that, it needs, like any institution, time. this is the spirit of the letter which our president sent to the presidents of the other two institutions. the answer we have received from the president of the commission is inspired by a spirit of cooperation and conciliation, and we are sensitive to that. it is a work in progress on the council's part. we must go further, mr council representative. we need you to show the same spirit of consultation and conciliation as the commission, otherwise we shall have difficulty in continuing along this path. beyond the technical arguments, i would not like the whole discussion to go on without at any time we raising the governance problems of the euro area. because, anyway, what is the situation we are in today, with two countries that have an opt-out for ever and countries that have to subscribe, join this zone without at any time the question of the governance of the zone is raised? we are approaching the moment when the rotation of the ecb's bodies will be implemented. it is a mechanism that we have criticised here in this parliament and i think we continue to criticise. we also think that the way the eurogroup is working is not entirely satisfactory and that we need to do even better. tomorrow we will have the accession of slovakia and then, until 2012, our calendar will be visibly lighter. let us use this time to improve the governance of the euro area, otherwise our citizens will lose confidence in their own currency, which is being expanded geographically without first improving its functioning. with your permission, mr president, i would like to say a final word on the inflation criterion. i know that this criterion was defined in 1992, when europe was not what it is today. but if we are to review the maastricht criteria on a purely economic basis, independent of any political conditions that would allow this debate to be reopened, then there are other elements of the maastricht criteria which should be reviewed.
member of the commission. mr president, mr langen, on the last point, i repeat that it is clear that the commission and eurostat ask a number of countries, including cyprus and malta, to provide information, to improve or to supplement these quarterly accounts. but, again, these statistics are not relevant when assessing whether a country meets the convergence criteria or not. there are thousands of statistics, many statistical series that countries have to send to eurostat, which are part of the statistical apparatus of the european statistical system. but these statistics, which are incomplete or deficient in the case of cyprus and malta, are not the statistics we have used and which we should use for the assessment of the convergence criteria. they're different. as to your previous remark: portugal, italy, france, greece, hungary and so many other countries have received revisions of gdp figures or deficit or debt or other aspects from eurostat. but we are talking about deficits and debt in particular. but you, mr langen, and any of your colleagues, know that these revisions have taken place and you know that the figures we are now using, thanks to the work of eurostat and the commission, which has improved considerably in the last three years, are more realistic and more in line with reality. you have adopted, together with the council, a regulation which provides better tools and more possibilities for reviewing the figures eurostat receives from each member state. we thank you for the support that eurostat has received and that is enabling it to do a better job than it did before, and if i, as the commissioner responsible for eurostat, need new legislative instruments to improve the quality of work, i will ask you for them. i can tell you today that if i compare the credibility and quality of the budget, deficit and debt figures of the member states with which i had to work three years ago, the qualitative improvement and the improvement in credibility is obvious, and for this we should all congratulate ourselves. do not blame the commission for doing its job well by offering you and everyone else better deficit and debt figures.
mr president, i would like to invite mr langen and all his colleagues to participate as actively in the discussion as we do today when we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs are working to improve, for example, the way in which eurostat operates in the context of the current debate and when we are adopting the texts that the commissioner has just mentioned, which should improve the governance of eurostat. i don't see you at those times. i would like to ask mr gloser if he is prepared to commit himself, on behalf of the council and in the spirit of president barroso's reply to president pöttering, to sitting down with us to agree on a common timetable for the three institutions when it comes time to consider a new application for membership of the euro area.
the president of the council. we heard in the debate what options there are. the commissioner and mr barroso have made proposals. now we have to sit down and decide what is still possible under the existing contractual provisions. we should take the time to do that.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 21 june. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, it so happens that the explanatory statement accompanying this report has been totally contradicted by the vote on the resolution in committee, a resolution which our assembly is now going to vote on. i therefore asked the rapporteur, in accordance with our rules of procedure, to remove from the explanatory statement any words which did not correspond to the resolution as adopted in committee. these terms have been added to the explanatory statement in the form of a minority opinion, in accordance with the strict application of our regulation. i thank you, mr president, for allowing me to explain to the house the reality of democratic life in the economic and monetary affairs committee. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, our colleague, mrs morgantini, has also tabled an oral amendment and i suggest that we add both. it would therefore be a matter of accepting mrs morgantini's oral amendment and completing it with the following sentence: 'and calling on the international community to ensure the effective implementation of this multinational force'. the two amendments would be combined to form one.
in writing. mercury management is a major environmental issue. the reason why europe has more mercury waste to store is that our industries have not anticipated the risks of using this metal, particularly for the production of chlorine. first lesson: we need to rethink all our production methods very quickly to anticipate a much-needed ecological revolution. secondly, it is necessary to monitor the storage of waste continuously and regularly. that is why i voted in favour of amendment no 25, which excludes permanent storage and landfilling. unfortunately, he did not win a majority of the votes. however, the other advances in the text justify a vote in favour of the final report.
in writing. our vote on malta and cyprus adopting the euro will be the same as our vote on slovenia: we will abstain. we will not go against what we hope is the conscious will of sovereign peoples. but we must note that a step has been taken: it is not at their express request, but because they almost meet the 'stupid' maastricht criteria, as mr prodi would have said, that these countries must adopt the euro. have their citizens been informed? at least one of these countries does not meet the criteria and neither of them seems to be providing the statistics needed to assess their preparedness correctly. why rush? the practical and technical arrangements for the actual transition to the single currency are largely unknown. and the eurozone's absorption capacity, which once worried mr langen, has disappeared from the landscape and analysis. we are again faced with the bicycle syndrome which european construction seems to suffer from: if it does not move forward, it will fall. the euro area must be enlarged at all costs. that's it! it is true that the price is paid by the citizens of europe!
in writing. i voted in favour of introducing the euro in malta and cyprus, as this is support for the eu's view of closer integration of these countries. nevertheless, this decision should have been accompanied by measures to allow for a more democratic management of the common currency (creation of a genuine economic government of the euro area capable of balancing the power of the ecb, modification of the objectives of the central bank to include the pursuit of growth and full employment, modification of the criteria of the stability pact so as not to penalise public investment policies in the future). let us be careful not to pursue an endless enlargement of the euro zone without new prospects.
in writing. we support the galileo project, although we have made some reservations about our support. however, we cannot support this resolution. it is regrettable that, after the foreseeable failure of the public-private partnership, this parliament is declaring itself ready to give up an independent gps system if it ceases to be a purely community project and includes direct funding by the member states. galileo is useful! either way, it needs to be funded. can the commission not find 2.4 billion euros in the hundreds of billions it plans to spend, not always usefully, by 2013? what's the big deal? why should the states be left out? galileo is not a toy, nor is it the exclusive and symbolic project of a europe based in brussels which wants to make it appear that it is not only concerned with itself, its competences and its sustainability. for once, put aside the dogma. put into this industrial venture a quarter of the political will that a handful of states put into building a european aerospace industry a few years ago, proving what you refuse to admit: intergovernmental cooperation works. in brussels, on the other hand, it is not.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the area of freedom, security and justice can only function effectively if our european actions are also extended in our relations with third countries. it is therefore important to coordinate our strategy for freedom, security and justice with the european union's external policy. i would like to congratulate our two rapporteurs, mr klich and mr sakalas, for having succeeded in setting our priorities in this report. in the area of migration, we cannot simply strengthen our borders. we must develop a genuine dialogue with third countries, based above all on the protection of fundamental rights and on democratization. we therefore want to ensure that fundamental rights are an integral part of any european instrument, by including a human rights clause in agreements with third countries. the fight against international crime and terrorism will only be effective if we cooperate closely with our allies. but we must remember that for the european union, the fight against terrorism is first and foremost a matter of strengthening fundamental rights. we can't use the same weapons that terrorists use. let us oppose violence and barbarism with the rule of law and justice! we therefore urge the european institutions to ensure that the requirements of the member states in the fight against terrorism do not in any way compromise the respect for the fundamental rights of any person, even if he is suspected of a terrorist offence, in accordance with the conclusions of our temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners. finally, i would like to return to the swift and pnr cases. our american friends are important allies. we must therefore negotiate a comprehensive policy on data exchange and protection, in compliance with european legislation in this field.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the klich-sakalas report has the merit of underlining the absolute need to guarantee the protection of human rights in the implementation of the area of freedom, security and justice. however, tomorrow, when we vote, i will oppose the amendments to remove all reference to the illegal detention and transport of suspected terrorists within the union and i will ask my colleagues to do the same. today is world refugee day and i recall what kofi annan said here, calling the union's asylum and immigration policy a disgrace. what's changed since then? despite the conflicts that plague the world, the european union is taking in fewer and fewer refugees. the number of asylum seekers in the eu has halved since the 1990s. today, for example, the acceptance rate of darfuri asylum applications is incredibly low. the european union also refuses to assume its responsibilities towards iraqi refugees. more than four million iraqis are now displaced and despite this the german presidency has announced that the member states do not want to participate in a refugee resettlement programme. the fierce negotiation of readmission agreements requiring third states to admit to their territory any person who has crossed through them is, as you know, causing disastrous humanitarian situations and serious violations of the right to international protection and the principle of non-refoulement. these agreements transfer to third states responsibilities which they are not normally able to assume. this policy of forced marches in part discredits the efforts made elsewhere to protect fundamental rights in third countries. the european commission should make concrete and operational proposals in this respect to overcome schizophrenia. a transparent monitoring procedure for agreements should be established; an effective remedy should be provided for violations of rights following removal. the commission could also create specialised officials trained in human rights and humanitarian law within frontex teams to ensure that international commitments and conventions are actually applied.
the rapporteur. mr president, the european union is based on humanist values, tolerance, multiculturalism and the protection of fundamental rights. we share strong values that must be protected. the fight against racism and xenophobia is one of our priorities, but we must bear in mind article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights which enshrines freedom of thought, conscience and religion in the inalienable respect of freedom of expression, in accordance with article 11 of the charter. the commission proposed a framework decision on racism and xenophobia in november 2001 in order to approximate the laws of the member states on racist and xenophobic offences and to combat racism and xenophobia in europe more effectively. so far, and despite a first opinion by parliament in july 2002, this framework decision has been blocked. despite the efforts of several presidencies, the member states had not yet been able to agree on the definition of criminal conduct and the level of penalties to be provided for. it is absolutely necessary to have a european instrument to combat racism and xenophobia. indeed, recent statistics show that racism and intolerance are on the rise. the rise of far-right parties in europe and, unfortunately, in our own parliament, requires us to condemn in the strongest terms any speech inciting hatred. this framework decision, however, requires us to strike a balance between freedom of expression and the punishment of offensive behaviour. the freedom to mock and criticize certain deviations, whether political or religious, is necessary in any democracy. the european council has finally reached agreement on this subject and we are pleased about that. the european union must send a strong political message to combat racist and hate speech. we cannot afford another failure on a text which is symbolic for the european union. i would like to thank the german presidency for this strong message, which confirms that europe is not just a large market, but that it is working to defend the fundamental rights of all european citizens. this new compromise is the result of long and difficult negotiations and we are aware that it necessarily has shortcomings. i would nevertheless like this political compromise to constitute a minimum level of harmonisation which will allow member states to go further in the future, and i particularly welcome the addition of a revision clause which will allow a higher level of harmonisation to be achieved in the coming years. however, in order to overcome these weaknesses, i call on the commission to present in parallel a proposal for a directive on combating all the forms of discrimination listed in article 13 of the treaty, in order to strengthen european legislation in this area. and i know that commissioner špidla is working on this, i think. i hope we will soon have a proposal for a directive. finally, this political agreement on the framework decision has led to substantial changes in the text compared with the commission's first proposal on which parliament delivered an opinion. parliament should therefore be consulted again in the coming weeks. we will give our opinion soon, rest assured, for we have all worked very hard for several months. we're all set to go. this instrument is absolutely necessary if we are to live in a peaceful world where everyone is respected in his difference, in his beliefs, in his way of life. we need this instrument to put an end to hatred and racism in a united and fraternal europe.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr roure for his speech and for his report. the political agreement reached in the council last april, after five years of discussion, was certainly very important. this agreement, although on a version of the framework decision which is less ambitious than the commission's original proposal, has in fact made it possible to establish precisely that, once the framework decision has entered into force and has been transposed in each member state, there will be no free port in europe for those who incite racial hatred, racism and xenophobia. this is a political achievement. i am aware that the text of the framework decision contains penal provisions which could have been more stringent. i would have liked to see stricter rules. however, as the rapporteur has just said, we had to accept an agreement because, as it was a framework decision, the principle of unanimity required us to lower the level of ambition a little. nevertheless, for the first time we have a common rule, which requires that behaviour which incites hatred and discrimination on grounds of race, colour and religion be punished by criminal sanctions in all member states. think how important it is to punish behaviour that incites anti-semitic hatred or islamophobia, at a time when we are talking about the integration of non-eu immigrant communities. a major theme has certainly been the balance between the criminal punishment of such behaviour, which is not free expression of thought but concrete incitement to commit violent acts and as such must be punished, and the due respect for freedom of expression. we have worked a lot on this and i think the final result is satisfactory. we do not want to punish ideas with this measure, but rather behaviour which incites other people to commit criminal acts, to hit, to injure, to kill and to commit acts of outright violence. freedom of thought has absolutely nothing to do with it. we do not punish the idea, but those who, on the basis of a wrong but legitimate idea, go beyond the idea to behaviour, incite someone else to strike and commit criminal acts. this is the line between freedom of thought, which must be safeguarded, and the actual incitement to violence. that's why i think this decision is important. that is why we have established the principle - which is also stressed in mr roure's report - that racist motivation is an aggravating factor in all crimes. if a crime of ordinary physical violence is committed for racist reasons, it must be punished more severely, since not only incitement as such, but also racist motivation, makes a given crime more serious than the basic case. this is an important principle and i believe that the fact that 27 member states have unanimously accepted it makes the european union a little stronger in protecting this fundamental value enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to apologize to mrs esteves, my group's fictitious rapporteur, who unfortunately will not be able to take part in this debate. i thank martine roure for her work, her dedication and her perseverance, because, yes, it took perseverance to never stop demanding that the council give us the agreement we so badly need. more than five years of negotiations to reach a proposal for a framework decision against racism and xenophobia: is it really reasonable to block measures so fundamental to the lives of our fellow citizens for so long? i would also like to thank the german presidency very warmly for having succeeded in unblocking this text. the european union is founded on communities of values, on the universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity. by uniting, we all decided to share these values. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why action was needed, concrete action so that intolerance, in all its forms, would no longer poison our continent. the approximation of the laws of the member states on racist offences was essential. from now on, every state will have to make public apology, denial or gross trivialization of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes punishable by imprisonment, and i am satisfied with that. however, i am not going to hide from you that this is not an absolute satisfaction: yes, the adoption of this text is a strong signal, especially in this european year of equal opportunities, but i am afraid that its added value is minimal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. but how can we tolerate the fact that a denialist can still speak in the name of freedom of expression in some european countries? freedom of speech stops when the rights of another are violated. i fully understand that there are different cultural and legal traditions in our countries, but the fight against racism must not be compromised. to tolerate some hate speech is, in effect, to accept it. my dear colleagues, as elected representatives we must be clear and forcefully condemn this violence. we must remain vigilant because our fight to defend human rights, to uphold the charter of fundamental rights, is far from over. i ask you to vote very broadly for this text tomorrow. this is our fight. he is the honour of our european democracies and the honour of our parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has always been committed to the establishment of a common asylum system by 2010. the report by mr pirker, whom i congratulate on his excellent work, recalls the need to maintain this objective. the aim of the development of a common asylum policy must be to protect the individual and not to reduce or outsource asylum applications. european policy must be based on the obligation to receive asylum seekers and the principle of non-refoulement, in accordance with the geneva convention. the development of a uniform status, the improvement of the quality of decisions taken, the single european procedures for compilation and examination, the common use of information on countries of origin, the improvement of cooperation between member states, will, i hope, enable persons in urgent need of protection to enter european territory safely and to have their application properly examined. however, the need to improve cooperation on information on countries of origin cannot be limited to the maintenance of a generalised list of third countries, since the reliability of such a list would be random. on the contrary, we must introduce a case-by-case assessment based on human rights. europe must also share the burdens and responsibilities of its asylum and immigration policy among the various member states by helping countries such as malta, which are no longer able to absorb new flows. i also noted with concern, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights, the complete absence of a gender dimension in the european commission's communication. the aspects of women's rights and the protection of minors are totally ignored. the same is true for the rights of homosexuals and transsexuals. i also believe that gender-based persecution, namely spousal and domestic violence, female genital mutilation, sexual abuse, honour killings, rape, forced marriage and crimes resulting from the application of sharia law, must be legally considered sufficient grounds for granting asylum. the commission must set out concrete criteria for granting asylum or specific humanitarian status to women who suffer from this type of violence. i also stressed the need to provide specific training for those who are entitled to receive asylum seekers, including women, children and the elderly, and to provide suitable reception facilities for these people. i am glad that the rapporteur has taken this into account, although i regret that his report devotes only one paragraph to these gender concerns, which i believe are paramount, especially since we can no longer ignore the failure of most reception centres to respect the minimum human rights. but i can see from the commissioner that he is very concerned about this, and i thank him for that, so i am hopeful.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the completion and proper functioning of our internal market today requires that economic operators be given greater access to the union's territory. in this context, european companies must be sure that in the event of problems they will have a legal framework to protect their interests. in the field of public procurement, they must in particular be guaranteed that they will be able to bring effective actions if they consider that their rights have been infringed during the award of such contracts. national legal systems already provide for a number of provisions to this effect. however, the absence of coordinated rules on time limits for pre-contractual remedies has contributed to a race to the signing of contracts, which has the effect of preventing any challenge to the procedures initiated after the contract has been signed. the main objective of the text on which parliament is called upon to give its opinion today in plenary, which is the result of the compromise reached with the european commission and the council, is to solve this problem. i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs of the various political groups for their excellent cooperation in a spirit of openness and dialogue. i would also like to thank the representatives of the commission and the council presidency for their availability, expertise and willingness to reach an agreement at first reading. the final text confirms the general orientation of the reform around two main objectives: firstly, to preserve the applicants' rights of appeal by providing for the timely suspension of the contract; the commission has also proposed that the council should establish a set of appropriate sanctions to prevent abuses. to achieve the first objective, parliament, the commission and the council propose the introduction of a minimum suspensive period of 10 days, or 15 days in certain cases, between the decision to award the contract and the signing of the contract, in order to allow the time necessary for the applicants who consider themselves unfairly treated to lodge an appeal. in order to take account of the realities on the ground, this minimum period will not apply to a number of situations, in particular in cases of imperative urgency. the specific situations linked to the framework agreements will also make it possible to derogate from this suspensive period, subject to particularly exemplary sanctions if irregularities are found. the second major axis of the reform project concerns the penalties for breaches of the rules. the compromise reached with the council and the commission on this issue fully reflects the concern expressed by parliament to have a range of sanctions that are both severe and adapted to the realities faced by local authorities. thus, serious breaches of the rules will lead to the nullity of the contract, creating a deterrent effect vis-à-vis the contracting authorities. among these cases are illegal over-the-counter contracts, which the court of justice has considered to be the most serious breach of the rules applicable to public procurement. infringements of the rules on framework agreements and infringements which affect the chances of tenderers to obtain the contract are also concerned. the cancellation of contracts will not, however, be compulsory in cases of minor infringements, the draft reform leaving the possibility of applying other, less drastic sanctions. it will also be possible to derogate from the principle of nullity if there are overriding reasons of general interest which require that contracts be maintained in force, subject, of course, to safeguards which parliament has requested and obtained. the draft reform submitted to the vote by the members is a balanced text, based on these two objectives, and has been approved by the representatives of parliament, the commission and the council. finalised within a tight timetable, it offers a set of guarantees which are necessary for economic operators applying for public contracts, without imposing excessive constraints on the contracting authority. the adoption of this directive today will enable europe to take a further step towards harmonizing the rules governing its internal market. it will also help to equip the union with effective tools to make public procurement practices more ethical by reducing the risks of fraud and corruption.
mr president, this is a text which, from a technical and legal point of view, is of great practical importance, since it is in fact a question of preserving the possibilities of appeal of candidates for a public contract by introducing a period of suspension of the award of the contract, namely a period between the award of the contract and the signing of the contract, so as to allow unfortunate candidates to bring an action, knowing that it is much more useful to try to challenge the signing of a contract than to obtain damages and interest once the contract has been signed. the proposal also provides for effective measures to combat the illegal award of over-the-counter contracts. the discussion with the council was based on mr fruteau's excellent report, mainly on the question of the sanction to cancel contracts which would have been awarded in breach of the suspension period, which we achieved at the end of the trilogue. the member states are thus able to provide for alternative sanctions for breaches of the standstill period or the suspensive period, and we support this proposal. it's a good compromise. the annulment penalty for infringements and the possibility of applying other sanctions, and thus leaving a certain margin of manoeuvre to the national courts in the event of a breach of the suspension period, is a good formula and we approve of it.
in writing. you want to moralize the trade, let us say 'legal', in what you call conventional weapons, and in particular to prohibit it according to criteria relating to their probable use (terrorist acts, violation of human rights, aggravation or outbreak of conflict, etc.). that is certainly a commendable intention. but at the same time, for several years now, the european union has been rocked by a recurring debate on whether or not to lift the arms embargo with china. but it is still a communist dictatorship, with laogai, forced labour, persecution of christians, enslavement of tibetans and so on. in this context, your willingness to do so appears at best hypocritical, at worst cynical.
in writing. despite some glaring flaws, the rapporteur seems to be a believer in the culture of excuses and is convinced that only society is to blame for the crimes of which its members are victims. it is therefore a very surprising analysis and proposal. the absurdity of the "tertiary prevention" (sic!) reserved for proven offenders, or the "modern procedures for resolving conflicts in school environments" is thus being brought to the fore. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer to it. is it crazy to "manage juvenile crime in the sense of decriminalization, decriminalization, judicial and institutional decriminalization"? re-sic?! what is it? a crime would no longer be a crime if it was committed by a minor! a murderer would no longer be punished because he is under 18! whatever you may think, the best prevention requires punishment, otherwise society becomes a jungle in which the weakest are the first victims.
in writing. our external borders are strainers? let us open them to more and more immigration, which we shall call 'legal' or 'chosen' or 'visa relaxation'. have terrorists set out to bring down our western societies out of hatred of their political foundations and values? let us threaten to kill the states that support them and let us concentrate on the essential thing: a common definition of terrorism at the un! the families of the victims of the london and madrid bombings will appreciate such semantic determination. our police services are collapsing under the absurd and bureaucratic demands of europol? let us give the commission the power to give them even more futile orders and let its bureaucrats carry out investigations. let us be clear: the creation of the area of 'freedom, security and justice', by lowering the internal borders of the european union without strengthening its external borders, has encouraged the explosion of illegal immigration, smuggling and cross-border crime, and has increased the vulnerability of our states to terrorism. so yes, cooperation and solidarity in these areas are essential, but they must be governed by intergovernmental cooperation between states with nationally defined and controlled borders.
in writing. after failing to build an 'area of freedom, security and justice', a true haven of peace which the european territory should have become after the ratification of the schengen agreements, brussels is worried about its 'external dimension'. europe wants to export its democratic values and its principles of the rule of law, based on respect for human rights and sound institutions. all of this is very commendable. but what are the real means it offers? the european parliament has always been a party to the third world, to immigration and to europe. the report calls for the activation of the 'gateway' clause under article 42 of the treaty, which would make it possible to include provisions on judicial and police cooperation and legal immigration in the community area. member states would thus be bound by decisions adopted by a majority of other states, even if they were not in their own interests. the creation of a european foreign minister, a proposal which was included in the constitutional treaty, itself rejected by the french and dutch referendums, is back on the agenda. the question is therefore still to divest the states of their sovereign powers to the benefit of brussels. what this report proposes is not more democracy, but more and more enslavement.
in writing. on 19 april, a political agreement on combating racism in europe was negotiated with great difficulty by the european ministers of justice. this is a new legal instrument designed to further restrict freedom of expression. in this connection, we should like to thank the states which have resisted the adoption of this text and for which we do not combat racism by restricting freedom of expression. these are the united kingdom, italy, ireland and the scandinavian countries. freedom of speech is an essential freedom. it can be limited by civil law only in the case of invasion of privacy, defamation or appeal to commit a crime or misdemeanour. what is the relevance and timeliness of such a text? at a time when europe's borders have disappeared, with the result that illegal immigration and crossborder crime have exploded, is it not more urgent to ensure the security of the european peoples on their own territory than to worry about punishing allegedly racist expressions? finally, i note the curious absence of condemnation of stalinist crimes or the armenian genocide in this text. only hitler's crimes and crimes recognized by international courts (srebrenica, rwanda) are covered. this text is liberticidal, untimely and sectarian. we will vote against it.
in writing. the european parliament has consistently insisted that the deadline for the establishment of a common asylum system by 2010 be maintained. improving the quality of decisions should allow for a convergence of member states' policies in order to achieve this common system. improving the quality of decisions should allow people in need of protection to enter the eu safely and to have their application properly examined. we must combat the drift of some who believe that improved asylum decisions will reduce the number of asylum applications. the common asylum policy must first and foremost protect the individual and guarantee the right to asylum and the principle of non-refoulement in accordance with the geneva conventions. i also reject any attempt to outsource asylum applications. that is why i tabled and voted amendments on the list of safe third countries. i am concerned that the commission is considering this list without the co-decision of the european parliament and without waiting for the decision of the european court of justice, which we have referred to this matter.
in writing. i would like to make a few comments on this report. the position of the consumer in the field of digital commerce is certainly a weak one. this is especially true in the case of the ebay portal: you have to trust your correspondent, if you buy, for example, to send you the product, whether you have ordered it in your own country or abroad. there are certain instruments, such as paypal, which are supposed to secure this type of transaction, but they are not very practical or easy to use for the ordinary user. something needs to be done to increase consumer confidence in the huge and growing e-commerce sector. but we must also be very careful not to over-regulate this market and not to create over-confidence among the consumer. we must always bear in mind that there is such a thing as the 'informed and responsible consumer', who can go and find out about the product himself and, if there is a problem, use the existing legal instruments. i therefore believe that improving the quality of existing instruments (e.g. legal guarantee) and informing the consumer about them is the first objective we must set ourselves before creating new consumer protection laws.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that in the last few months there has been a 'tiger in the engine of europe' and we owe it to the german presidency of the union. i would like to pay particular tribute to the chancellor, the president-in-office of the council, mrs angela merkel, and her government. the record of the german presidency of the union is eloquent. its success has changed the atmosphere in the european union. the spirit of pessimism and gloom is giving way to a return to confidence, and the feeling of helplessness in the face of the challenges of globalisation is giving way to hope in the effects of ambitious, realistic and determined political action. the energy and climate package was the first major positive signal. by convincing eu heads of state and government to commit to ambitious targets for renewable energy and co2 by 2020 to combat climate change, you set the tone. at the g8 in heiligendamm, europe showed itself united and began to move the united states. of course, much remains to be done in this area. but we have shown the europeans and our partners that when europe is united, it has a real capacity for influence and leadership. the german presidency has also been successful in our strategic relations with the united states, whether in treating it as a priority partner, in speeding up the establishment of a transatlantic market, or in putting the 'open skies' agreement into practice. relations between europe and russia have also been at the heart of your presidency, mrs merkel. when you were able to tell mr putin in samara what our red lines were and on what basis we could and should cooperate, you also made progress for europe in this respect. the german presidency has also been very active in the sensitive area of justice and home affairs. i would like to thank very warmly the minister of the interior, wolfgang schäuble, who has worked very effectively with our parliament on all these matters. we should also welcome the progress made in other areas, which may not be so spectacular but are more tangible for our fellow citizens. these advances have been mentioned several times in recent days: the fall in the cost of roaming, voluntary modulation in the field of agriculture, fisheries, the environment, etc. in all these areas, progress has been made over the last six months, and this is no small feat. finally, i would like to conclude with the agreement reached in the wee hours of last saturday on the reform of the european treaty. i shall not go into the extreme difficulty of the task, except to deplore certain remarks which, i say as i think, are not worthy of the sacrifices made by europeans over the last 50 years to ensure a climate of peace and reconciliation among us all. (applause) i would like to thank i am very pleased with the progress made in the negotiations on the new financial framework. does this mean that my group, and especially its epp component, is fully satisfied with the new draft treaty? everyone will understand that no. the european symbols, the title of foreign minister, the double majority vote in a short time, all this we regret. but politics, and especially european politics, is the art of compromise. the agreement reached by the german president in a collective effort is a good agreement which we will support. thanks to you, mrs merkel, thanks to your country and also to the goodwill of the 27 member states, the last six months have been very positive for the construction of europe. we thank you very much. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i'm sorry, hans-gert, it was just me. (cheers and applause) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the result is okay, it's actually very good. we must say without any hesitation that the german presidency has succeeded in bringing europe forward, together with all those who wanted to bring europe forward. the lyrics are fine, but the music was cruel. you couldn't hear it. i would like to make one point: on the one hand, citizens are reassured that europe can act and decide, but citizens in europe have also been excluded from the process, and this will not be sustainable in the long term. we cannot build europe without the citizens' participation in the process of building it. if we keep this up, this thing is gonna come crashing down like so many of our childhood dreams have. i am not going to go into detail. we've somehow managed to do it with very clever actions by a few. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. it's good to hear that the credit is being extended to everyone here. on another point, something has happened which we as greens do not accept and which we will argue against until the end. you can't just sit on the sidelines of a bill of rights. either we have one or we don't. it is absurd to say that we have a charter of fundamental rights with common values, which applies where it applies and does not apply where it does not apply. then we go to mr putin and say: we are a community of values! and mr. putin and the chinese will say, "except where you're not". it's not possible! (applause from the centre) we want to see a process in the next few years which will end with the declaration that the charter of fundamental rights is part of the european union. every british citizen and every polish citizen has the same rights as any other european citizen. if not, we will offer the country concerned a privileged partnership. europe is in or out. let's cut the crap! i firmly believe that we are facing challenges that we cannot meet as a nation. and those national anthems that are sung at summits are decomposing poison for what we want to do. the people must decide through their governments whether they want to be part of it. the good thing about this contract is that there's gonna be an exit clause at some point. we don't have to stay together forever. if you don't want to, you don't have to. the tyranny of the minority with the right of veto is the most undemocratic thing there is. that is why, madam president-in-office, it was admirable that you, as a woman, dealt with these blairite macho men. i am not just talking about the twins, because it was tony blair who put the axe to our actions. he had already signed everything and then came back and said: "i can't. one of the few things i've learned in politics is that once something is signed, it's valid. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the tragedy is that there are governments which do not take europe seriously. you're right, martin. they want to milk europe and at the same time eat the cow, sell it. we cannot tolerate this, and that is why we, the greens, will be launching a campaign called we want our rights back! (applause from the centre)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, my group will have the opportunity to go into detail on the various important aspects of the future treaty which you have mentioned. i would like to limit myself today to one question which the president-in-office of the council has omitted to mention. what will the decision taken by the twenty-seven to remove free and undistorted competition from the list of objectives of the union change in practice? the european leaders consider this to be nothing more than a communication operation designed to reassure europeans, at little cost, who are increasingly seeing in this obsession with competition one of the sources of the erosion of social acquis, the galloping increase in precariousness and, conversely, the explosion of dividends. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. the first theory has a strong case. firstly, the framework principle of an open market economy with free competition is repeatedly mentioned in the parts of the present treaty which will be renewed as they stand. secondly, a protocol specifically devoted to the reaffirmation of competition policy was adopted by the same european council and will be incorporated into the final text. finally, none of the provisions of the treaty based on the principle in question has been altered in any way. so there is nothing new under the sun in this regard, despite the fact that the european council has announced it. if that were the case, i think it would be a deception unworthy of heads of state or government and would, in the eyes of many of our citizens, further strengthen the demand for a pluralistic public debate on the future treaty as a whole, or the double treaty as a whole, a debate which would end in a union-wide referendum. i will therefore listen very carefully to your explanations on this subject, madam president. what will change in terms of free competition and will these changes affect the substance of the draft constitutional treaty or not? in any case, i call on all those who are sensitive to this issue to take the european leaders at their word: free competition is no longer your objective, you chicken! the first test will shortly be the fate of the draft directive on the full opening up of postal services to competition. where it is at work, as in sweden, this liberalization has consequences that are notoriously unfavourable to employment and to social and territorial cohesion, which, together with employment and cohesion, remain objectives of the union. it is therefore logical that this directive should be withdrawn or rejected. see you in july for that truth test.
mr president, it is true that it is difficult to resist the temptation to congratulate the chancellor, and i cannot resist. madam chancellor, i congratulate you, although i will be more reserved about the future treaty itself. but then, the reform of the treaties was blocked, europe was stuck, its unity was tested and you gave it a chance. the agreement reached in brussels on 23 june was a complicated compromise, achieved by a series of twists and turns in a council marked more by the national tensions of a few than by the shared european spirit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but at least it is an agreement at a time when europe needs to assert its unity and its will to move forward to meet the expectations of its citizens and the challenges it faces internationally and internally. we must therefore give the future intergovernmental conference every chance. as for the treaty itself, it can only be definitively judged in the light of the final text that will result from it, and uncertainties remain, but the mandate at least has the merit of taking up the institutional innovations that were contained in the first part of the draft constitution and that had been little contested, even in the countries where the "no" won in the referendum. i am thinking of the strengthening of the powers of the european parliament, the common foreign and security policy, the new rules for majority voting, the move to unanimity on a number of subjects, and so, from this point of view, i hope that the result will confirm the progress that was contained in the draft constitution. that said, there are two points which i would like to stress as important to our group and which concern the social dimension of the european union. on the one hand, there was an article on the horizontal social clause, and on the other hand, an article giving a legal basis for adopting a directive on services of general economic interest. the mandate of the intergovernmental conference on these two points remains unclear. we will be very careful that, after having renounced the charter of fundamental rights, the member states meeting in the igc do not yet call into question these two possible advances in the social dimension of the european treaties.
mr president, madam chancellor, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european council decided to end the pause for reflection, which means that the european union has finally found a way out of the paralysis it has been suffering from for two years. without this agreement between the 27 member states, the union would not only have remained in a state of disrepair, it would probably have entered into a real crisis, heralding a process of gradual dislocation of our collective project. the mandate given to the intergovernmental conference to draft the new treaty may not be ideal, but it is the result of a difficult compromise, bringing together member states whose differences were feared to have become intolerable. i would like to congratulate the german presidency, and particularly you, mrs merkel, for your skill and foresight in the negotiations. i am also proud of the role played by france and its president, nicolas sarkozy, who has taken the initiative of a simplified treaty to bring europe out of a situation of long-term stalemate, and whose political will has been decisive. we may regret that the spirit of community has not been infused in all our partners, but patience and time will undoubtedly help us to perfect our work. i now look forward with great impatience to the lisbon treaty, the signing of which next october would be a wonderful symbol of the end of a particularly disillusioned period in the construction of europe.
mr president, commissioner, we are dealing today with a package of regulations which are particularly important for the consumer. they are important, as commissioner kyprianou has rightly said, because it is a question of food security, because it is also a question of meeting consumer taste expectations and finally because it is a question of the competitiveness of our agri-food businesses. as regards the authorization of gmos, i believe that it was indeed necessary to comply with the gmo regulation. i would like to speak, however, first of all about flavourings, and more specifically about natural flavourings. it seems to me important to look more closely at the question of labelling 'natural flavour' because, under the current state of the regulations, a manufacturer can affix the 'natural flavour' label to his products from the moment the flavour is 100% natural, whatever the formula. tomorrow, if the proposed regulation is accepted as it stands, the industrialist will no longer be able to use the term 'natural flavour', but will have to use the expression, which seems to me much more burdensome, 'natural flavour of ...', for example 'apples', if it is a product made from apples. i would have liked to have kept the percentage we know so far, i.e. that of the total of flavouring agents, at least 90% must come from the named source, provided that the 10% not coming from the named source are just as natural as coming from another natural source. it is well known that to develop certain tastes it is necessary to use other natural flavourings, for example adding 10% of another natural flavour to enhance a taste. so the move towards a ratio of 95% and 5% or even 100% would lead to a standardization of flavours at european level, which i think is contrary to the creativity of industry, to innovation in the food industry and i find that particularly regrettable.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, on behalf of the committee on regional development, i would like to stress that the completion of the internal energy market must be part of the european union's objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion. it must therefore aim at a high level of public service and guarantee security of supply and optimum satisfaction of consumer needs. indeed, full competition in a market as specific as the gas and electricity market is only justified if prices are lower, services are more extensive and customer services are more efficient. i would therefore like to stress in particular the need to take account of the most vulnerable citizens and to guarantee supplies in regions whose development is lagging behind, in regions with natural handicaps and in the outermost regions. particular attention must also be paid to border regions, which are the first to benefit from the effects of the internal market. the completion of this contract requires full transparency and full and unbiased information on the origin of energy, in particular when it comes to renewable energy. in this respect, regional and local authorities should be supported by the european union in their efforts to promote energy efficiency and energy savings, particularly in transport and housing. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr vidal-quadras for having taken account in his report of a number of our comments.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate mr vidal-quadras on the work he has done: on a thorny subject and with a large number of amendments, he has succeeded in ensuring that the text to be adopted by parliament lists the options that will guide the debates to be held this autumn. the report reaffirms the key role of national regulators. independence, convergence and greater harmonisation of their competences are essential in terms of transparency, communication and accountability, but also in terms of relations with transport network managers. the technical and regulatory disparities that hamper cross-border trade and interconnection must be overcome. in my view, regulators should approve the necessary investments proposed by the network operators and ensure that they are made. the european commission's desire to strengthen cooperation between national regulators is thus moving in the right direction. the alde group welcomes the fact that this parliament has stressed the need for different approaches to the electricity and gas sectors. the latter requires specific solutions taking into account the differences between upstream and downstream markets. the gas producers are, for the most part, located outside the european union and do not follow the same rules as those of the internal market. the separation of assets could make european gas companies more vulnerable. as regards regulated tariffs, we believe it is necessary for member states to phase out the application of regulated tariffs, while still retaining the possibility of tariffs of last resort to protect the most vulnerable consumers. i would like to conclude with a point which has been the subject of debate: the question of the division of assets, or ownership unbundling. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not distort competition and affects trade between member states. i have a different view on this from some of my colleagues, because i do not think that this division of property is the key to the completion of the internal market. after imposing it, if this option turns out not to be the right one, the damage could be damaging for european airlines and, ultimately, for security of supply. i think it is more important to establish a code of conduct for network operators, to make the necessary investments and to increase the power of regulators. we need both major european energy champions and competition for the market to work. what is needed is price transparency and the avoidance of excessive prices, because energy is a vital need for europeans and for the european economy.
member of the commission. mr president, i really regret that this fascinating debate is over, as i would be happy to discuss this issue more. however, it is very important not to forget the reason why the package was proposed. as i have said, it is for the benefit of the consumer. and we should not go into the unbundling issue too much without seeing why we would actually be proposing unbundling. the reason for this is that market liberalisation has never had a chance in the electricity and gas market. fear of the unknown, inertia and a lack of national egoism in europe are among the reasons for the late implementation of the necessary measures, postponing things until the next government or, hopefully, for the next generation. so what we are really talking about is liberalising the market. i am one of the people that has lived in different systems. i also lived in the situation in which market forces were not known. i remember standing with my children in long queues for soap and sugar because the market economy was not there and a planned economy could never deliver on time. in terms of electricity i never asked this question because i took it for granted that we would be cut off. instead i would wait until the supply was re-established. what i mean is that i believe the market is the only thing which responds to external conditions and which makes investments at the least possible cost. unbundling is the instrument that guarantees that investments are being met and consumers are protected. i think this is a point of departure for the issues that have been debated most of the time today. unbundling is the necessary precondition for achieving a competitive market but not the goal per se. otherwise i would just mention two additional items mentioned in the debate. parliament is now considering the candidates for the coordinators for trans-european energy networks. i hope that they will approve the commission’s choice. at this stage the commission still needs to deliberate on it. an energy consumer charter has been launched for public consultation and at the end of september, when the public consultation ends, we could go for the final adoption of the energy consumer charter. thank you very much for the debate. i would once again like to thank mr vidal-quadras for an excellent, very balanced report, which rightly focuses on all the appropriate areas that we will be taking into account when we come forward with the legal package.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 11 july 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee on budgetary control.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 76/769/eec on the limitation of the placing on the market of certain measuring devices containing mercury (05665/1/2007 c6-0114/2007 2006/0018 (cod)) (rapporteur: maría sornosa martínez) (a6-0218/2007).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to make clear once again the commission's policy on the handling of substances which have been shown to be highly toxic in our environment. we cannot exclude risks in our society, but whenever the conditions for substitution are present, substitution must be given priority. i can't see how you could possibly see it any other way. if you don't have to deal with a highly toxic substance in your environment, you don't have to deal with it. this is also true of the energy-saving lamps mentioned by mr krahmer, which do contain very small amounts of mercury. there's no substitute for that yet. but it must be worked on, and once it is, of course, it is preferable to produce it without the use of mercury. let me conclude by addressing the question of the barometer. you'll hardly find a greater friend of fine old appliances than i am. i am a great fan of traditional manufacturing methods, a great fan of traditional businesses, especially when they are small businesses. no one wants to drive a single small, traditional company out of europe. i have the catalogue of one of these manufacturers. there's no doubt about it. they already offer beautiful barometers that are not in the least different from the barometers produced so far, but do not contain mercury. even the famous prince of wales barometer, a copy of john russell's royal barometer, priced at £795, is already available without the slightest trace of mercury. the argument that any company would be in jeopardy of its existence is simply not true. i would like to say to you very clearly that it is not in the interests of these small businesses to prevent them from taking the necessary steps to make what they produce sustainable. and the only way these traditional barometers can be sustainable is if they are made without mercury.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 11 july 2007.
that's what i thought, mr. schlyter. i assure you, i did the same thing and i hope to survive for a long time.
the agenda calls for the report by jeannine hennis-plasschaert, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on the identification and classification of european critical infrastructures and the assessment of the need to improve their protection (com (2006) 0787) c6-0053/2007 2006/0276 (cns) (a6-0270/2007)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i am grateful to all those who have spoken, including the rapporteur, i am afraid i have some reservations about accepting the somewhat restrictive approach that the committee on transport has wished to adopt. as some honourable members have rightly said, most recently mr segelström and others, to limit the minimum threshold for the definition of a european infrastructure to three or more countries would, in my view, have two drawbacks, the first of which would be to prevent the smallest european countries from participating in the programme for the protection of critical infrastructure. we obviously want to avoid such an eventuality. we want to offer all member states which are potential targets of a terrorist attack a form of participation in this european strategy. i would like to raise a few objections to the restrictive approach which is hostile to the idea of europe dealing with a common framework for the protection of infrastructure. it is not a question of subsidiarity, which we respect very much. the problem is that today's infrastructures are intimately connected and the latest speech by the representative of estonia, who recalled the cyber attack on her country, is the most obvious proof of this: it was an attack on an entire country system. and even though it only affected one country-system, can we have any doubt that that attack indirectly affected the entire network of relations of estonia with other european countries? if you paralyse the banking system of even one country for a number of days, you inevitably hit a backbone of the european union. i therefore believe that the original commission proposal, which i support, is better because it offers a wider range of opportunities. with reference to cyber attacks, i do not exclude that terrorists may plan an attack on a country-system, a banking system, a ministry, a system of administrations: we're looking into what happened in estonia and our cybersecurity agency will give us a report after the summer. i intend to publish that report, but beyond the analysis of that incident, we cannot rule out that terrorist organizations are planning to attack an entire country with a cyber attack. i think that is why a somewhat less restrictive interpretation is absolutely necessary. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the members of this parliament once again. i believe that the adoption of a rigorous report on the initiatives taken by the commission would also make it clear that we are concerned about prevention. as has been rightly stated, since 2004 the european commission and the institutions of the european union have been working to strengthen prevention policies. only then will we be able to give a truly serious and coordinated response to the threat of terrorism.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 11 july 2007.
the agenda calls for the report by diana wallis, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii) (pe-cons 3619/2007 c6-0142/2007 2003/0168 (cod)) (a6-0257/2007) approved by the conciliation committee.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 11 july 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the court adjourned at 11:45.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have the privilege of speaking in this debate following the unfortunate outcome of the examination of the opinion originally drafted by my colleague gilles savary for the committee on economic and monetary affairs. in view of the vote in this committee, the rapporteur has refused to have his name included in this report. we started the process of opening up postal services to competition ten years ago, gradually reducing the monopoly of national operators while seeking to guarantee the maintenance of the universal service. this requirement for universal service is now reaffirmed in the ferber report, which defines three financing instruments for this purpose and consequently recognizes that the market alone cannot guarantee a daily service throughout our territories. the additional two years granted to the new member states and to those with difficult topography testify to the difficulty of reconciling full liberalisation with public service obligations. the rapporteur wanted to recognise a fourth area, a fourth mode of financing, namely the reserved area. your committee on economic and monetary affairs has chosen not to follow the rapporteur, either on the introduction of this concept of reserved area or on a change in the calendar. it has preferred to stick virtually to the commission's initial proposal to make 2009 the date of opening of the postal service to liberalisation. i would say that in this case, exceptionally and personally, i believe that the committee on the substance was right not to listen to the economic and monetary affairs committee. i am saying this as a very personal opinion: it is not the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs who is speaking.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, my colleague erik meijer will now come back to mr ferber's report. i would like to illustrate very concretely, on the basis of this draft directive and the commission's attitude to it, the liberal dogmatism that is fuelling the crisis of legitimacy of the european economic and social model and the arrogance that is maintaining the climate of mistrust of our institutions. i would remind you of what the european trade union confederation has said about your project from the beginning, commissioner. i quote: "this proposal will eliminate the reserved service sector which has proved to be the only reliable service". it continues, and i quote again: 'hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost since the start of liberalisation. in the long term, this will have a serious and negative impact on the european union. the european trade union confederation recommends that the council and parliament do not adopt the commission proposal.' the uni-europe postal network, which represents more than a million employees, believes, and i quote, that the commission's proposal would jeopardise the range, quality and access to the services currently enjoyed by citizens of the union. he too - i quote again - 'unanimously urges the council and parliament to reject the commission's proposal' which, according to the secretary-general of this network, 'failed to guarantee the financing of the universal postal service to the citizen'. that's it! in addition, tens of thousands of petitions from users opposing this bad text were directly sent to the commission. nine historical postal operators stressed the threat to the future financing of the universal service. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the commission's response to this flood of interpellations is that its directive is the only valid option. close the door. that is exactly what is no longer happening in public opinion, mr president, and it is our responsibility to ensure that it is not happening in the minds of as many members of the european parliament as possible. that is the meaning of our rejection amendment, whether for 2009 or later. i'll make an appointment for you tomorrow for the vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while many of us agree that the full opening up of postal services to competition in 2010 will encourage the design of services with a european dimension and will have a strong impact on job creation, there are also many of us who say that this modernisation of the postal sector must not undermine the current quality of postal services, which are part of the economic and social life of all our territories, and particularly the most remote ones. i had already expressed this in february 2006, recalling the legitimate fears of our citizens, postal employees and long-standing operators. and i know that some fears remain in the minds. since then, the work of parliament, with its different sensitivities, has allowed for greater flexibility in the definition of universal service and its financing, in particular through the introduction of the compensation fund which makes it possible to distribute the cost of the service fairly among operators, depending on whether they participate in the exercise of this service in whole or in part. while we are closely monitoring the implementation by the authorities of the various countries, and in particular my own, of an ambitious definition of universal service, we will be very attentive to its financing mechanisms which make it possible to have a quality postal service for all our territories, and above all for citizens, for employees, but above all for european citizens as a whole.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, competition has its virtues, but in a market economy, before we can let it go, we have to do a lot. as such, land use planning is one of the conditions for attractiveness, economic efficiency and quality of life. the full privatisation of the postal service may undermine this territorial planning and, therefore, the good of nations. france is not a flat country with a homogeneous topology. the cost of delivering the letter varies widely from place to place. privatizing the service means that sooner or later it will be charged at the actual cost or abandoned. as a result, rural or remote areas, already threatened by economic desertification, will suffer a competitive disadvantage that will push them into the deflationary spiral. we must therefore, in this house, once again admit that our countries are different in nature and culture. so each of them must be given the sovereign freedom to find the solution that suits them. the internal market is not an end in itself, it is only a tool for the good of nations. let us not forget this for the sake of our fellow citizens!
mr president, i should like to begin by apologising to you for the delay in bordeaux of my colleague gilles savary. as the future of the public postal service is being decided, i would like to stress one particular point: the financing of the universal service. what is being proposed today is to replace what remains of the residual monopoly which is used to finance universal service in a simple and transparent way with a range of complex and opaque systems whose only merit would be to guarantee free and undistorted competition in the postal sector. this palette includes compensation funds which are known to open the door to permanent litigation, public subsidies which portend proceedings against member states or a so-called 'pay or play' system which has never been tried and which, too, is likely to open the door to permanent challenges. the gas plant we want to set up is the result of a purely ideological choice, which has nothing to do with the real efficiency and quality of the postal service. in the long term, this system will lead to a gradual reduction in the scope of the universal service and the end of the single tariff, while having a certain impact on employment and administrative costs. we cannot support that. the postal service, especially in rural areas, is not just a commercial service, but a tool for social and territorial cohesion, and dismantling it will not reconcile europe with its citizens.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr markus ferber on the important work he has done over the past few months and even years, and also on his openness and his willingness to listen, because he knows that we have not always shared the same views on this complex issue. as parliament prepares to vote on the final stage of postal liberalisation, that of the under 50 grammes, i would like to congratulate myself on what i believe is a step forward for the users. competition is synonymous with improvement of service, as evidenced by the modernisation efforts undertaken by several national postal monopolies since they knew that they would have to face new operators on their national market. competition also means improving the competitiveness of a sector whose turnover is declining and which, if nothing is done, will sink into deficits and eventually lose all attractiveness in the eyes of consumers. i do not want to give specific examples, but we all have examples in mind of countries where the public sector no longer provides the postal service it owes to its users. however, if we confirm tomorrow the final stage of liberalization, competition is not an objective in itself for me. it must remain a means of service to users, and i welcome the fact that the text voted by the european parliament explicitly provides that the distribution of mail to every citizen of the union, regardless of where he lives, is a mandatory principle. i also welcome the fact that the text explicitly provides that the operator who will have to take over the universal service, and who will therefore have higher charges, may be financed by levies on the activity of its competitors not subject to the same obligations, or may even be financed, if necessary, why not, by public subsidies. this type of funding will be legal and available to every state. how high? that is the question to which the second reading and the time which separates us from actual liberalization must enable us to answer. i would like to reiterate a request to the european commission which i made in a parliamentary committee and in a written question without receiving a reply: when will the commission publish guidelines for calculating the cost of universal service? parliamentarians and states alike need to know what the commission's position is on what it considers to be universal service participants and what it does not. in any event, we will need clarification on this point before second reading in order to maintain our support for this text.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be stressed enough that we are currently co-legislating postal services for almost 500 million european citizens. we must therefore do so with both will and wisdom and we must carefully consider the impact of our decisions on a population as large as it is geographically diverse. with voluntarism, because the principle of gradually opening up all economic activities to competition is not only inherent in the very notion of an internal market without internal frontiers, but is already enshrined in the 1957 treaty establishing the union and is beneficial in many respects, as christine de veyrac very rightly pointed out. it is the duty and the duty of the commission to take action to ensure that this fundamental principle is implemented without undue protectionism. but it is wise, because the primary aim of the union at the very end of the treaty is an ever closer union of our peoples, not just of our states. to move forward, europe must be perceived by its people as a plus and not as a further constraint, without any justification in their eyes. i would like to thank our rapporteur, markus ferber, for the quality of his listening during this long journey, and also the rapporteur for opinions, and in particular the rapporteur for our committee on energy, research and technology, hannes swoboda. i hope that the vote we take tomorrow will be in line with the recent european summit and that it will be exemplary in this respect. the future simplified treaty, adopted unanimously by the heads of state or government, will redefine competition as a means to the union and not as an end. it will make the protection of citizens an objective of the union. in this respect, it will recall the specific nature of economic services of general interest, which take precedence over the general principle of free competition. this is an excellent road map, because in all geographical areas of our countries, as has been said on several occasions, guaranteeing the quality of the postal service is a particularly sensitive subject for the people, because it affects their daily personal, economic or social life. even if we have to change things, we have to be moderate and aware of the transitions that are needed. as the epp's fictitious rapporteur for the itre committee, i consider the compromise proposed by mr ferber to be balanced, and i invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to support it by voting, without any dogmatism, one way or the other.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank all members of parliament for their comments. with its vote, parliament will be taking a clear and a strong stance. this should motivate the council to come to a conclusion rapidly. in closing, let me stress a few key points. many members raised the financing of the universal service as the principal challenge. we ought to remember that there is a big diversity of national situations and that there is not necessarily any net cost of the universal service. it is, therefore, necessary that the third postal directive gives the broadest possible flexibility to share out any unfair burden or organise compensation mechanisms. as far as we can see, the amendments do not aim to change this approach. the commission also notes the amendments relating to the date of full market opening. this question will also be essential in discussions with the council. some member states want more time, other member states have opened up their markets already or will do so before 2009 and a substantial number of member states agree with the commission’s proposal in this respect. parliament suggested to further request the commission to provide assistance and guidance on the implementation of this directive after its entry into force but before 1 january 2009. the commission has always been ready to assist member states and has done so on many occasions. it has, however, done so autonomously, which, as members will understand, is of particular importance in the framework of its responsibilities under title vi of the ec treaty. so let me be clear: the commission will not leave member states alone once a legislator has adopted this important directive. the commission wants the internal market for postal services to be a success. we want this for our customers and for the operators, and for the many thousands of postmen and postwomen who ensure that the post is one of our most cherished services. the commission will do what it can within its powers to contribute to this. a large number of amendments are on the table. i have arranged for an overview of the commission’s position on the amendments to be handed over to parliament’s services for inclusion in the report of proceedings see below . once again, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr ferber, and to stress the importance of taking this sensitive and important dossier forward. commission’s position on amendments by parliamenta. amendments that the commission can accept, can accept in principle/in part and/or can accept subject to rewording: 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41, 44, 46, 47, 49, 51, 52, 53, 55, 56, 60, 63, 65, 75, 76, 79, 80, 82, 83b. amendments that the commission cannot accept: 5, 6, 7, 10, 19, 21, 22, 23,24, 34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 43, 45, 48, 50, 54, 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 64, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 77, 78, 81, 84
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
thank you for your intervention, we will send a telegram to lisbon.
the agenda calls for the report by ieke van den burg, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on financial services policy 2005-2010 - white paper (2006/2270(ini)) (a6-0248/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to commend the committee on economic and monetary affairs and in particular the rapporteur, mrs van den burg, for the initiative she has taken and the hard work put into this report. it is no easy task to tackle the very wide-ranging policy area of financial services in one report, as it ranges from banking to clearing and settlement, and hedge funds to payment systems. the report you have drawn up is an admirable achievement in that respect. i would also like to say how pleased i am to see such an apparent convergence of views on so many aspects of financial services policy. although we may approach subjects from a different angle sometimes, it is very encouraging to note how, in many respects, we are on the same page. the european parliament and the commission are united in wanting europe’s financial markets to go from strength to strength. we all want deep, liquid, dynamic financial markets that act as a real catalyst for investment and growth and ultimately bring benefits to all our citizens. we also want our regulatory and supervisory systems to be stable, fair and efficient and we all want to strengthen europe’s place on the global financial stage. it is essential that we keep working towards these goals. i warmly welcome the considerable attention given in the report to the issue of supervision. this is an absolute priority for the commission in 2007. we are working intensively on our proposals to strengthen the lamfalussy process due in the autumn this year and we agree with the concerns of the european parliament on the issue of burden-sharing between home and host supervisors. with regard to retail financial services, it is striking that many of the subjects touched upon in this report are included in the consultation on the green paper on retail financial services, which closes this week. i would argue, however, that we should not limit our ambition to finding solutions for the ‘mobile consumer’. we need our policies to make a difference to all consumers, even those who continue to shop locally. i welcome the support given in the report to initiatives on financial education, an issue on which the commission is preparing a communication to be adopted towards the end of this year. i acknowledge the concerns raised in the report with regard to alternative investments such as hedge funds and private equity. as i have stated on other occasions, i believe that we have the necessary regulatory safeguards in place already, but agree with you that constant vigilance will be essential. i also welcome some recent industry-led initiatives to develop voluntary standards or best practice on valuations, disclosure and risk management. the concerns you express on market concentration in certain specific areas are understandable, although we have yet to receive indications of a problem of market distortion in the investment banking area. work is already under way to mitigate some of the potential problems, for example through the international organisation of securities commissions’ code on credit rating agencies, which we closely monitor. these initiatives must be given time to prove their effectiveness. developing a knee-jerk reaction to a far from unsubstantiated problem would be much more damaging. i welcome the european parliament’s support for our regulatory dialogues with key international partners. on global accounting issues, steps are being taken, particularly through the establishment of working groups of the european financial reporting advisory group, to make european views and inputs more influential in the global accounting debate, something i can only applaud. however, we cannot take our eyes off the main goal, and that is the continuing convergence process between us gaap and international financial reporting standards. i trust we can rely on your continued support as this process continues. in summary, i can only reiterate that, as far as financial services policy is concerned, even if one or two notes clash slightly, we are certainly singing from the same hymn book.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i support the european commission's priorities for financial services policy until 2010. it is indeed necessary to consolidate the progress made towards an integrated, open and competitive european financial market and to remove the remaining economically significant obstacles to the free movement of capital across the european union at the lowest possible cost and with an appropriate level of prudential supervision, in order to ensure financial stability. it is also essential to improve cooperation and convergence in the field of supervision in the european union and to deepen relations with other global financial centres. it seems to me essential to continue the consolidation of the financial services sector and, more particularly, the integration of retail markets. the more integrated financial markets, which play an important role in the smooth functioning of modern economies, the more efficient the allocation of economic resources and the better the long-term economic outcomes. in the retail sector, further steps are needed to further integration. in particular, the question of the harmonisation of national consumer protection rules should be examined. efforts must be continued. the financial services sector in the european union has considerable potential for economic growth and employment which has not yet been fully exploited. the internal market in retail services is far from complete; a more efficient venture capital market is essential to promote new and innovative businesses and to strengthen economic growth. in this connection, i would like to stress the importance of promoting the competitiveness of european banks vis-à-vis their competitors, particularly those in the united states. finally, it is important to ensure that community structures are established for regulation and supervision. the fragmentation of prudential supervision is one of the major obstacles to financial sector consolidation. therefore, the obligations for cooperation and exchange of information between supervisory authorities should be strengthened. the security of crisis cooperation should also be guaranteed.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, as you know, for my group the market is not an end in itself, the market must finance a strategy. the european union has just renewed this strategy in an exceptional way on 9 march, around what i will call the strategy of the twenty: in 2020, 20% of ..., etc., i will not develop. that is why we need to integrate a coherent financial market. much has been done, much remains to be done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we believe that a very specific approach should be at the heart of the commission's strategy in this area. of course, financial education will have to be promoted, it has almost become the trendy subject and you will have the support of my group when it comes to developing such education. but we also need to look at the conditions under which financial products are offered to savers, consumers and small investors, as we have stressed in the examination of the mifid directive. we also need to look closely at the question of the conditions under which financial products are marketed. the debate on alternative funds, the hedge funds, which has just been opened with great fanfare under the german presidency, remains. the very fact that a code of conduct could be devised at international level shows how far this debate has progressed. however, the market players benefit from the opportunities created by integration. this gives them a number of responsibilities and duties. and from that point of view, i do not think my group shares the point of equilibrium that has been reached. if we want to guarantee the security of the system, we must continue the discussion, including when it comes to examining the conditions under which the prime brokers are both judges and parties to the case. the second is the question of market structures. the legislation we adopt has an impact on market structures and we cannot ignore it. in defining our legislation segment by segment, we must have a clear idea of the financial market we want to best meet the financing needs of the european economy. is a financial market whose main beneficiaries are the large investment banks located outside the european union exactly what we are dreaming of? i don't think he did. we must integrate a strategy which allows each actor to find its place in the overall balance. and then, of course, the big issue that we have before us is the issue of oversight. i fully share the views of our rapporteur on this point. the power and legitimacy of the level iii committees, the supervisors, must be strengthened; each national supervisor should have a european convergence obligation. in this way we will ensure the security of the system and we can use this integrated supervision as a better tool for establishing a european market.
the rapporteur. madam president, as this is an important matter in the field of comitology, i shall not bother the house for long, but i would like to be able to vote against the first part of the european parliament's amendment and for the second part. i think all the members will have understood the importance of this vote.
the rapporteur. madam president, in the spirit of efficiency, and in order to allow the council to agree with our wording, we should vote against the amendment of our committee on economic and monetary affairs.
chairman of the economic and monetary affairs committee. madam president, the house will remember that we had to refer this text back to committee, because, following conflicting votes, our rapporteur had called for a vote against. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has done a serious job which clearly does not correspond to the opinion of our rapporteur, who should probably have had his name removed from the final result. it was not achieved by a small majority by chance but as a result of extremely thorough work, with the commission, with the council, for a very reasonable proposal which i hope this house will be able to support. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague mr alexander stubb on the special report of the european court of auditors on the translation expenditure of the commission, parliament and the council. i am glad that i was able to table an amendment to the effect that more and more documents or communications, in particular compromise amendments when they are voted in committee or, for example, annexes to reports, are being presented in one language. this is not in keeping with the need to maintain a model of democratic functioning of our union involving various peoples of different cultures and languages. our model can be used in other parts of the world, particularly in the mediterranean area, and we must fully respect the use of languages. i regret that i was unable to prevent the report from encouraging parliamentary committees and delegations, where possible, to provide texts only in the languages of their full and alternate members, while requiring that other language versions be provided on request. the latter restriction will lead to deputies being deprived of the possibility of following the work of committees other than their own.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jan mulder on the reduction, to a minimum, of administrative expenditure imposed by european legislation. the european commission's objective of better lawmaking must be encouraged and monitored. unnecessary administrative expenditure is the scourge of our rule-of-law societies, which sometimes fail to realise that inflation of the law leads to its depreciation, because citizens do not apply unnecessary and costly rules. it is not an illusion to envisage a 25% reduction in administrative expenditure by 2013, provided that we analyse what this is all about and do not lose sight of the fact that false savings can cost much more. everyone knows that mediocrity is much more expensive in the long run than quality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague diana wallis on the joint proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii). this extremely complex matter is a step towards harmonizing national rules on the conflict of laws applicable to non-contractual obligations, i.e. the consequences of road accidents, unfair competition, environmental damage, defamation and, more generally, violations of personality rights, etc. the european parliament has not been heard sufficiently by the member states and the many studies and reports which will have to be produced to assess the consequences of this agreement will be essential to reviewing this important matter. for example, in the case of road accidents, how can we simply apply the law of the place of the accident, and not that of the victim's domicile, and can we be sure that the mere recitals of this regulation will oblige the courts to calculate the damage? how are we going to deal with libel in an internationalized and dematerialized press? and there are others... we have a lot of work to do on these issues.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the balanced text she has proposed to us. the purpose of this text is to establish a coherent legal framework for the relationship between private international law and other community instruments. the purpose of the rome ii regulation is to harmonize national rules on the conflict of laws. these rules determine the law applicable to non-contractual obligations such as, for example, road traffic accidents, product liability, unfair competition or environmental damage. we are in favour of the very principle of adopting standard rules on the conflict of laws, but we must remember that they must be sufficiently clear and precise. this was not the case with the controversial provisions on media defamation. freedom of expression and of the press must be protected and fully exercised. in the absence of rules protecting editorial independence, it was reasonable to exclude the provisions on the violation of privacy by the media from the scope of rome ii. we shall therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the compromise negotiated with the council on the second programme of community action in the field of health 2007-2013. the european union can no longer save a common health programme with a common public investment. it is regrettable that the budget has been revised downwards. a large number of investments are necessary before preventive and technical means can be provided. prevention is better than cure, so good information on healthy lifestyles or diets is a necessary prerequisite to reduce deaths from serious diseases. technical solutions for emergency situations must also be generalised. the widespread availability of defibrillators is one example among many. but health is not just a matter of accounting. it is also, and above all, a good for all. empowering patients is a central element. clear and applicable provisions throughout the union are undoubtedly the most necessary way forward.
in writing. i welcome the council's wise decision on the common position, which incorporates most of the amendments adopted by the european parliament. the main difference between parliament's and the council's position concerns mercury barometers and the derogations to be introduced, on the understanding that the ban which would then apply would only apply to new mercury barometers, as barometers already in circulation can still be resold, repaired and maintained. in view of the very dangerous properties of mercury and the very high mercury content of conventional barometers compared, for example, to medical thermometers, the limited derogation solution proposed by the council is a balanced compromise: it is a temporary derogation to allow manufacturers of conventional barometers to adapt to the new situation.
in writing. i would like to welcome the adoption of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 76/769/eec on the restriction of the placing on the market of certain measuring devices containing mercury. i am in favour of limiting the placing on the market for the general public of measuring devices containing mercury, which have been banned in france since 1998. the council's common position, accepted by parliament, strikes a balance between reducing the release of mercury into the environment and providing for a transitional period for certain items such as traditional barometers. a transitional period of two years after the date of entry into force of the directive will allow the industries concerned to move their technology towards mercury-free devices.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my swedish colleague, åsa westlund, on food additives. while it is right to facilitate the european commission's task by accepting that decisions on the authorization of food additives fall within the committee procedure, the commission must take account of the remarks which parliament has made repeatedly over the years in the new regulation on food additives, as well as in the new regulation establishing a uniform authorization procedure for food additives, enzymes and flavourings. these comments concern mainly the environment, public health and people with allergies. it is good that the current legislation provides that the authorization of additives cannot mislead the consumer. however, coloring agents may be used to make a food appear to contain fruit when it does not. consumer protection must therefore be strengthened in this respect without prejudice to industrialists.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my irish colleague, avril doyle, on the proposal for a parliament and council regulation on food enzymes, amending many existing texts. in order to remove barriers to trade and to avoid legal uncertainty, as well as divergence in health and consumer protection standards between member states, it is urgent to harmonise at community level the rules on the use of enzymes in the food processing sector, which has developed considerably in recent years (bread, cheese, beer, fruit juice, starch processing, etc.). the great scientific and technological developments, which make it possible to obtain new enzymes from genetically modified micro-organisms, must lead us to accept this prospect of harmonizing legislation on the use of food enzymes in the european union. this is in the best interests of consumers and industry, provided that legislation is not too costly.
in writing. i voted in favour of the very good report by my slovenian colleague, mojca drčar murko, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties intended for use in and on food and amending many existing texts. at present, all natural tastes and smells can be reproduced by a synthetic process from 2600 molecules with flavouring properties, with the possibility of creating new tastes that do not exist in the natural state. technological developments in the flavour sector and the volatility of tastes among our citizens must commit us to food safety and consumer protection, while offering the industry concerned the opportunity to pursue technological development, and at the same time helping to strengthen the internal market. there are many questions, and i welcome the compromise reached by the rapporteur, which makes the proposal for a regulation an effective initiative to modernise and simplify legislation on flavourings.
in writing. i voted in favour of the package on the rationalisation of authorisation procedures, the use and consolidation of the directives on additives and flavourings, and the harmonisation of legislation on enzymes. a number of additional safeguards have been introduced to ensure transparency of decisions and consumer protection, and i welcome this. the future legislation will aim to ensure consumer protection and food safety while preserving innovation and the competitiveness of the agri-food industry. the food industry uses many natural and artificial flavourings: as many as 2,600 are listed. more and more enzymes are also used in the manufacture of foodstuffs and legislation has been adopted to improve the safety of these substances. the competitiveness of the agri-food industry on the market should therefore be preserved. natural flavourings are composed entirely of natural flavouring agents. the 90/10 ratio proposed by the commission made it possible to obtain a natural flavour with different tastes depending on the products, the targets or the culture of the member states. 10% was from natural sources other than the substance concerned. i therefore regret the adoption of the arbitrary so-called 95/5 rule which risks penalizing the agri-food industry without, however, strengthening consumer information.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my dutch colleague jeanine hennis-plasschaert on the proposal for a council directive on critical infrastructure. first of all, i welcome the vision of the european council of june 2004 which is the basis for this proposal for a directive. it is imperative that the european union supports the member states in protecting critical infrastructure against the risks, including terrorist risks, that we face. even though the responsibility for this type of infrastructure lies with the member states and the owners/operators who are generally related to them, it makes sense to make certain aspects of prevention, identification, classification of critical infrastructures and the assessment of the need to improve their protection community-wide. the development of the internet and the liberalisation of certain markets (electricity, gas, telecommunications, rail freight, etc.) must lead us to be very vigilant about our critical infrastructures, which are increasingly interconnected at european level and whose shutdown, whether permanent or temporary, or destruction could have serious repercussions for the health, safety, economic or social well-being of european citizens or for the proper functioning of the governments of the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my spanish colleague alejo vidal-quadras on the prospects for the internal gas and electricity market, which provided an update on this matter after a long process of liberalising energy markets and, above all, the adoption by the european council in march 2006 of an energy package aimed at ensuring security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability in the field of the european union's energy policy. i regret that the amendment tabled by my colleagues reul, laperrouze, trautmann and others, which i voted for, was not retained by parliament because it allowed a balanced and alternative path to the mere separation of network ownership while guaranteeing the independence of this separation. these are topics on which the political debate is far from over. the same applies to the role of regulators, the removal of barriers to interconnections, the development of new mass production from renewable energies, the considerable investments in infrastructure to meet growing needs, etc.
in writing. i voted against the vidal-quadras report on the prospects for the gas and electricity markets, which prepares in particular the presentation by the commission of a third 'liberalisation' package next september. firstly, i am opposed to the dogmatic liberal principle of ownership separation (ownership and management of the grid), as it provides no guarantees in terms of investment, supply, security or access of third parties and renewables to the grid. it also fails to ensure the availability of energy at the best price for citizens and does not fulfil public service obligations. why then upset the current organisation, which is working well and ensures the effective independence of the network managers, thanks in particular to a strong intervention by the regulator and the introduction of strict rules guaranteeing equal treatment and a quality service to all network users, even those living in regions with natural handicaps and the outermost regions. moreover, i believe that the problem of the independence of the transmission system operator is not a question of ownership but of regulation. why then ask for the energy operators to be de-publicised?
in writing. i regret the adoption of the separation of property by property advocated by the staunch defenders of the dismantling of large enterprises. i think that the liberal right has just dealt a new blow to the principle of public service, which is so dear to the european citizens. i consider that the asset separation does not provide any guarantees in terms of investment, security or third party access to the network (including renewable energy, which may be penalized by their high costs). nor does it ensure the availability of energy at the best price for citizens. i think it would have been preferable to maintain a french-style system, which incorporates into its operation the legislative rules derived from the previous european directives.
in writing. the ump delegation would like to recall and emphasise that asset separation is not the best response to the current market dysfunctions. in a context of strong competition, with the emergence of powerful non-european operators, it seems to us dangerous to dismantle european energy companies in the name of a dogmatic approach to competition policy, far removed from the industrial logic that should strengthen the european union in world competition. the european energy supply is a long-term strategic issue which requires ensuring its security beyond the duration of a single contract. this security of energy supply depends on investments which are already clearly insufficient. however, these will have to increase considerably to meet our future needs, whether for gas or electricity. the asset separation means that our traditional energy operators will not be able to make these investments in the energy networks. it is very dangerous and very worrying to hand this over to new entrants, who may not have the necessary financial means, or to non-european companies, who may not necessarily share our assessment of our future needs. in these circumstances, the ump delegation expects the european commission to develop an alternative approach to the division of assets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is time for the union to take up this debate and we can welcome the green paper initiative. however, i fear that this initiative is not necessarily good news for european workers. the green paper is open to criticism both in terms of the method it uses and in terms of the guidelines it proposes. firstly, as regards the method: i regret that this consultation does not respect the procedure laid down in article 138 of the treaty, which gives the social partners a special status in matters of social policy. this derogation from the procedure is also denounced by the european trade union confederation. secondly, on the substance: a green paper must be impartial. he must ask questions without giving a priori answers. the european commission is making statements which are clearly ideological. this is the case when the traditional model is seen as an obstacle to employment. this is also the case when it declares that protection against dismissal is an obstacle to the dynamism of enterprises and lists workplace insecurity as a guarantee of modernity. there are fundamental principles and rights in europe and in international law as laid down by the ilo which must be respected. the contract for an indefinite period must be confirmed as the rule. the employee must be protected by legislation or collective bargaining or both. i would like to stress that collective bargaining must therefore remain the main source of labour law. finally, a word on the concept of flexicurity, which is based on principle. as defined here, it introduces a major imbalance in the distribution of competences between the union and the member states. the european union would impose flexibility and leave the responsibility for ensuring the safety of workers to the member states alone. our fellow citizens want a europe which protects their rights and their social model. we must not give them the impression that europe is destroying their social achievements. the challenge is their adherence to the european project, let us not forget that.
in writing. globalisation, ageing populations, and the acceleration of trade: these are all challenges that will be faced even more in the future than today. no member state can claim to achieve this alone, and it is through coordinated action with the european union that employment and social policy will be successful. i therefore welcome the own-initiative report on the modernisation of labour law, which is necessary to meet the challenges of the 21st century. its objective is not only commendable, it is vital. work must be given a new value, its legislative framework adapted to the times, and it will be necessary to enable those who want to work to work, by promoting attractive training, and those who want to work more power, by offering more flexibility to employee-employer negotiations. flexibility does not mean the end of protective rules, it means that these rules will be determined by free negotiation adapted to the needs of all, needs which will be expressed in a fostered social dialogue. france has already initiated this dialogue with the social partners, and i therefore welcome this report, which is in line with the ambitions and actions undertaken in france.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am one of those who believe that the posting of workers is a good thing for the european union and its citizens. it is a chance both economically and in terms of contributing to the strengthening of the european idea. the workers who move within the european territory are first and foremost europeans and must be treated as such, which in my view means that for the same job in the same territory, no inequality should be allowed. one of the problems with directive 96/71/ec today is that, because of the lack of harmonisation of national labour law systems and the disparities between new and old member states in this area, there is a fear that this directive will allow arbitration between member states and linking the 'social lesser-known'. i repeat once again: social europe must be built from above, not by tearing apart its social acquis, as some here wish. i would like to see some of the amendments tabled on the report on the modernisation of labour law. in this area, i would advise them not to play the alchemist, as they risk being caught up in uncontrollable social conflicts. in my view, to avoid these pitfalls, member states must be able to continue to maintain a number of restrictions but also, when they accept posted workers, they must be able to impose certain conditions. i believe that posted workers should be able to have representatives in the host countries who are independent. they must be able to provide relevant information on their working hours and the safety and health conditions associated with their work, so that protection can be guaranteed. the seconded workers must be able to make a prior declaration, in order to allow the social partners in the host states, where wages are fixed by collective bargaining, to enter into direct negotiations with the home enterprise of the posted workers. but we must go further in this area by pursuing such ideas as the establishment of a european minimum wage. we must have the political will to converge towards a common base of social rights throughout the european union. it is with such practices that we embark on the road to the social europe, the united europe, the workers' europe that we all want.
madam president, i should like to begin by thanking willy piecyk for the impressive summary work he has done. it is a comprehensive, balanced report which takes account of the economic, environmental and social aspects of this future maritime policy. in the social field, it stressed the importance of vocational training and career prospects, and the urgent need for the eu member states to sign and ratify the ilo conventions on maritime labour as soon as possible. this is essential if european know-how in this field is not to disappear. the rest is now in the hands of the commission and the member states. the reform of the union budget from 2008 should provide an opportunity for them to show that they take these issues seriously. the commission will be responsible for coordinating this maritime policy. this is a huge construction site where the absence of a solid line could quickly lead to chaos. that is why i think the idea of a commissioner for maritime policy, with a sufficient mandate to arbitrate when necessary, is worth considering. of course, solidity does not mean rigidity. i believe that it would be appropriate to involve the regions more closely in the implementation of the initiatives that will be decided on in the framework of this future maritime policy.
madam president, commissioner, the outermost regions are mentioned several times in the green paper, but they are still largely underestimated in the overall thinking on an integrated approach to maritime policy, despite their geographical location in the indian ocean, the atlantic and the caribbean sea, and despite the fact that these regions are among the most concerned with the question of the sustainable management of seas, oceans and coastal areas. the creation of a research network on tropical marine biodiversity, netbiome, a project funded under the sixth edp and involving the seven octs and some octs, is an important step forward in the field of sustainable marine management and research and development in the tropical marine environment. the ors are faced with uncertainties such as tsunamis, cyclones and, of course, global warming, all of which are cataclysmic events that weaken the environment and the seabed. you have, moreover, been the victim of one of these hazards, commissioner, since you had to abandon a visit to the island of réunion last march because of cyclone gamède. the experience of the ors in terms of risk prevention and reducing the vulnerability of coastal areas should bring considerable added value to our joint thinking. the question of the balance between tourism and respect for the marine environment is more important in the ors than elsewhere, so that this sector of activity can contribute to the sustainable development of these regions, where tourism is one of the main sources of income. finally, the question of coherence between the various european policies arises in the fisheries sector, because our regions must strengthen safety at sea and make fishing more attractive, whereas the current policy aims to limit the power and number of vessels, including in our regions where the state of the resource does not justify it. i hope that the current debate will lead to the emergence of a comprehensive and coherent european maritime policy, in which the ors will be given a privileged role, commensurate with their in-depth knowledge of the seas. finally, i would like to thank willi piecyk for his work.
in writing. with this report, we fully appreciate the potential that the eu could derive from a more integrated maritime policy, moving from fragmented and specific measures to more coherent proposals. the commission's green paper does little to help this, but we must admit that we are not helping it much more with this report which is too long and not sufficiently structured. i would like to highlight four main challenges: reconciling economic development and environmental protection, including maritime safety and marine biodiversity; successful coastal development to coexist port, residential, economic and natural activity areas; moving from a traditional economy to new high value-added sectors such as marine biotechnologies and new energy; the commission's proposal is to set up an effective governance system, which is a political and administrative challenge that is essential for the success of the whole. there is real potential for the development of maritime activities, which today represent 3% to 5% of european gdp, but putting all this into play will be difficult and will require effective coordination. in this report, the eu is a pioneer and shows its ambitions. the way to move from this vision to an integrated policy remains to be found.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, as we take stock of the first railway package, it is clear that we are still far from the mark. despite the progress made, and in particular the fact that a decline which seemed inevitable has been halted, the modal share of rail is still too low. this is all the more regrettable in these times of climate change, when the choice of rail is confirmed every day by the news. the reasons for this half-hearted assessment are well known: too much emphasis has been placed on openness, the benefits of which must not be denied, without paying enough attention to the technical obstacles, in particular the lack of interoperability, knowing that it should have accompanied openness as it progressed, rather than following it in the distance. this is probably because liberalization generally costs the states little, while harmonization is another matter. today, at a time when the problems of interoperability are finally being tackled again, i am concerned that, under the guise of convenience, the objectives of transferring modes to rail in particular are being pushed into the background. instead of downward revision of the objectives, the intellectual and financial resources should have been revised upwards. i hope that this report will help to remind us of the way we still have to go to give rail back the place it deserves.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you have pointed out before me, the first package was intended to lay the foundations for an integrated european railway area and, by modernising the network, to encourage the transfer of freight from road to rail, in order to reduce co2 emissions and, of course, all the congestion on the roads that europe is suffering from. i should like to thank my colleague mr cramer for his own-initiative report which gives a full account of the implementation of the first package, but without failing to highlight all the elements which affect the performance of the railway and all those which hinder the achievement of the objectives we had set ourselves. it should be noted first of all that the opening up of the railway network, while maintaining a very high level of safety, has allowed a very significant increase in freight transport, at least in the european union as a whole, and small railway companies have also been able to take up niches considered unprofitable by incumbent operators. i am glad that the report also focuses on the current system of charging for the use of infrastructure, which does not allow for fair competition between the different modes of transport of goods. i think it is essential today to achieve as quickly as possible a harmonisation of the sectoral capped tolls which can take greater account of the internalisation of external costs and which limits the exponential increase we are currently witnessing. i also think that it will be necessary to discuss the eurovignette directive again, as it was a step forward that we need to continue, and i am glad that you confirmed this evening, commissioner, that discussions on this subject were planned as early as june 2008. i also hope, commissioner, that together with you the commission will quickly embark on a process of modernising and developing intermodal infrastructure, mainly on international ten corridors, by means of ertms equipment and allowing a real link with port infrastructure on the one hand and river infrastructure on the other. finally, i would like the commission to present recommendations for the financial restructuring of the railways, which, in my view, should take account of the debt relief enjoyed by certain historical operators, so as to put all rail transport operators on an equal footing.
in writing. china represents a major political and commercial challenge. it is indeed essential to rethink the eu-china economic and trade relations, based on respect for fair and equitable trade rules and the application of wto rules. china must commit itself to global responsibility and to the establishment of trade relations based on reciprocity. our european markets are open to those who open theirs, but they are closed to those who close them. we must not be satisfied with unfair competition and monetary, social and ecological dumping. the eu is also required under the new agreement to denounce the importation into the community market of products which do not comply with environmental and phytosanitary rules (which the eu itself imposes on its community producers). china is a key player and must cooperate on climate change and energy to strengthen international environmental governance. the achievement of parallel progress on the political and trade fronts is, understandably, more than decisive for an effective eu-china agreement.
president of the commission. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by extending my warmest greetings to the portuguese presidency and to the prime minister of portugal. the portuguese presidency's programme is ambitious and demanding, and the intergovernmental conference will naturally occupy a prominent place, especially until the european council in october, but the portuguese presidency is not limited to the important question of the treaty. external relations, with the holding of relevant summits with many of our partners, the renewed lisbon agenda for growth and jobs, innovation are amongst other topics of the highest demand. the commission adopted its opinion for the intergovernmental conference yesterday. as i have already said to this parliament, the intergovernmental conference which is about to begin will be of a very different nature from the previous ones. thanks to the work done in the past and especially the efforts of the german presidency, which i also want to commend, thanks to the fact that it has been possible to make such concrete progress, we can say that the level of detail of this mandate is unprecedented. never has an intergovernmental conference started with such a precise mandate. the truth is that in some areas this mandate adopts the 2004 igc texts, in others it uses language that is very developed from a legal and technical point of view. as a result of this level of precision, we can now say that the central question is no longer about the political substance, since that was essentially resolved when we met in the european council, but rather the central question is the level and fidelity to the content of the mandate. so we must be clear. i want to make the commission's position clear here: we fully support the mandate and we believe that it should not be reopened. the point at issue, as prime minister socrates has already said, is to convert the mandate into a treaty. it's not about renewing a mandate. it would be extremely negative, i think it would be even inconceivable, to go back on what has already been unanimously agreed. it would be a sign of great distrust if we now tried to renegotiate a mandate to which everyone has given their consent. without confidence in the value of the commitments made, it is not possible to build a strong europe. it is also true that, from the commission's point of view, the mandate is neither ideal nor perfect, and in many areas we would have been more ambitious. but the mandate is not ideal for anyone and that is how the european project works and has always worked. since 1957, our integration project has always been driven by political compromise and not by ideal solutions. it'll be like this again now. the agreement reached at european council level was difficult and is based on a delicate political compromise. our responsibility is to uphold this commitment at the intergovernmental conference and until the final ratification. the commission fully supports the portuguese presidency's intention to hold a rapid and focused intergovernmental conference. the intergovernmental conference will begin on 23 july and, if all goes well, and we will do everything we can to ensure that it does, it may be concluded at the informal european council in october. the commission does, however, reserve the right to express its views on the positions and proposals of the member states' governments during the igc and, in particular, we will be vigilant in the fulfilment of the mandate. we feel it is our duty to do so. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we have said, the portuguese presidency goes beyond this very important treaty issue and i am pleased to note that the prime minister and president of the european council intends to give particular attention to the lisbon strategy. we can say that the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, which we collectively relaunched in 2005, is now delivering very positive results. unemployment in the european union has fallen from 10% in the mid-1990s to 7% last june. our analyses show that structural unemployment is also falling, which is quite positive for europe in the medium and long term; our data also show that the increase in employment among the female population is 50%. these elements have a very positive significance for a europe which we want to be more competitive, more just and more cohesive. economic growth is also at its highest since 2000, and in a context of strengthening the potential and growth of the european economy, which leads us to consider that the recent growth is structural and not just cyclical. to a large extent, it is fair to say, progress is due to reforms inspired by the lisbon agenda and renewed by the growth and jobs strategy. the fact is that europe, by giving the governments of the various member states a common framework for reforms, is facilitating, supporting and reinforcing precisely that movement of reforms which, it is true, all european governments have been carrying out in one way or another, at different speeds and with different scopes. it is therefore right to point this out here, because the lisbon strategy has also often been criticised as an element for economic and social modernisation in europe. but the truth is, there's no room for complacency. much remains to be done to make the european economy more competitive and european societies more equitable. in particular, it is important to enhance the contribution of innovation to economic growth. i know that this is one of the priorities of the portuguese presidency and i very much welcome this option. innovation is the main theme of the whole set of the energy technology plan, the european institute of technology and the first innovation and technology community which we want to see dedicated precisely to energy issues and the fight against climate change and which we hope will be launched during the portuguese presidency. this is certainly a clear example of how the renewed lisbon strategy seeks to link the different aspects, in particular this central aspect which has to do with the fight against climate change and energy security. but to achieve results in this area, we have to do more in terms of innovation, and that is why i welcome the intention of the portuguese presidency to make innovation an essential element of the european council in december. education, scientific research and innovation are fundamental elements of the european societies we want to build to meet the most pressing concerns and challenges of this new century. to achieve the objectives we set ourselves in the european energy and climate policy, we have developed an ambitious and consistent strategy to ensure sustainability, security of supply and european competitiveness. however, it should be stressed that for the success of this strategy we can only welcome with enthusiasm the conclusions of the european council in march, which mark a historic moment in the fight against climate change and energy. in order to be able to present results now, we need to make a greater effort in the areas of scientific research, technological development and innovation. the technology plan for clean energy technologies is a key pillar of this strategy. the creation of the european institute of technology, which has now been so well received by the european parliament, is also an essential step towards increasing europe's competitiveness by mobilising efforts at european level and by better linking knowledge and innovation. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the commission states in the opinion we adopted yesterday, the reform treaty will strengthen the union's capacity for action in external relations in a highly symbolic way. two of the central pillars of the portuguese presidency are precisely institutional reform and the union's external relations. the active cooperation between the presidency and the commission in the latter area is evident. last week, prime minister socrates and i went to accra for the final session of the african union summit and the next day we were present at the first summit between the european union and brazil. with brazil, our newest strategic partner, we share an ambitious agenda, which includes energy, especially biofuels, which we want to be sustainable, the fight against climate change and trade relations. in the case of international trade, we made a very strong appeal to president lula to reach an agreement in the doha negotiations. the commission stresses the commercial importance of doha because trade is the engine of economic growth and development. trade has lifted millions of people out of poverty in asia, and it can continue to do so, not only in asian countries, but in south america and africa. however, international trade must be based on rules and multilateral institutions and the european union has a key role to play in consolidating international rules and governance, so doha is a key issue. it is not just about trade, although that is important in itself, it is about our multilateral vision. we cannot actively defend multilateralism and then, when it comes to trade, defend unilateralism. progress is also needed on this because it is not just a trade agenda, it is a social development agenda, an agenda which can strengthen our link with developing countries. in the case of africa, the strategic partnership between europe and africa is also fundamental to international stability. the european union is the largest donor of financial, economic and technical aid to africa. europe is the largest trading partner of the african continent, importing more than all the other g8 countries. the commission, which i have the honour of chairing, has made relations with africa one of its most urgent priorities since the beginning of its mandate. for example, the commission had its first meeting in the history of the european union outside europe in addis ababa, where we had a working meeting with the african union commission. there is, however, much to be done in relations between europeans and africans. the next eu-africa summit, to be held under the portuguese presidency, is a unique opportunity to set an ambitious agenda, including concrete issues such as energy, migration, the fight against climate change and also, of course, democracy and human rights. we talk to the rest of the world, you wouldn't understand why we didn't talk to africa. we have to solve certain political and diplomatic problems, but these problems, the importance of which must be recognized, cannot and must not become obstacles to a strategic partnership which is essential for the future of globalization. africa and europe must work together. i have said many times that the european union has a vocation for the 21st century, the promotion of justice, freedom and solidarity on a global level. the european union cannot and should not be a collection of countries looking only at themselves. the european union can and must be a force for reform and stability in the world, a force for defending the interests of europeans and promoting values. we are a community of values, namely the values of freedom and solidarity. the african continent is certainly a region that needs our support and our commitment. the european union cannot turn a blind eye to the tragedy that is taking place so close to home. before i conclude, i would like to wish the portuguese government every success and to reaffirm the commission's absolute readiness to cooperate with the presidency. i can say that we have full confidence in the capacity of portugal, a country which has demonstrated its european conviction, in the capacity of the government, the authorities and all the portuguese political forces to work for europe. we share with the portuguese presidency the beautiful motto that has been chosen for this period: a stronger europe for a better world. together we can work towards that. (applause) i would like to thank
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, my group welcomes the ambitious motto of the portuguese presidency: 'a stronger union in a better world'. by placing a desire to build at the heart of its mandate, the portuguese presidency is following in the footsteps of the german presidency. and by capitalising on the momentum of mrs merkel's achievements, you will demonstrate, mr sócrates, that the success of a presidency depends on strong political will and a strategy of convergence on ambitious but realistic priorities. your success will also depend on your cooperation with this parliament. we must be closely involved in your actions and decisions. the ppe-de group considers institutional reform, the security of our citizens, the pursuit of the internal market and the consolidation of growth to be the essential priorities of your presidency. the agreement reached on 21 and 22 june takes up most of the progress made in the previous text. if the member states ratify it by spring 2009, europe will finally be able to decide in an efficient, transparent and democratic way in areas such as security, growth, energy, climate and demography. to backtrack on the commitments made would be to regard the european union as a house of cards: one card less and the whole house collapses. for our group, and in particular for elmar brok, who will be representing it, the intergovernmental conference must be devoted to the legal finalization of the revised treaties and should be concluded, as you wish, mr sócrates, for the european council in the autumn. mr president-in-office of the council, if a stronger union in a better world is your motivation for action, you cannot ignore the security of our fellow citizens, and you spoke at length about this this morning. the terrorist acts in the united kingdom and elsewhere in europe, the breach of the ceasefire by eta, are of concern to us and call for european anti-terrorist coordination. mr socrates, i know that the member states are reluctant to cooperate in this area. the principle of 'every man for himself' must be eradicated; the security of the citizens of europe must be paramount. in the face of international crime, terrorist nebulae, complex networks, sophisticated methods, particularly in the field of migration, we are in danger of being caught and we have an obligation to act without delay. the vacancy of the post of eu coordinator for counter-terrorism is intolerable. thank you for your commitment. mr president-in-office of the council, let us show the same determination for our security as we do for climate and energy. the victims of terrorist attacks are a force for unity. under your leadership, we expect more cohesion and greater involvement of member states in an effective counter-terrorism coordination model. as regards other priorities such as the pursuit of the internal market and the consolidation of growth, our citizens will only be committed to the european ideal if they see that our social model, the free movement of people, goods and capital, but also of services, the promotion of education, training and innovation, translate into tangible improvements in their daily lives. to become the most advanced economic zone in the world requires political will and courage. portugal has had the audacity of the lisbon strategy. it is given the opportunity to provide the best after-sales service. we are interested in the social and economic dimension of the construction of europe. mr sócrates, we want, as you do, to see progress with africa on migration issues and to strengthen ties with brazil and the emerging countries. like you, we also place transatlantic relations at the top of our priorities. in recent months our partnership has taken a qualitative leap; he must now make progress. firm positions in respect of our values and continuous dialogue must govern our neighbourhood relations with the balkans, ukraine, belarus and, of course, russia. mr president-in-office of the council, the epp-ed group wishes you every success for this stronger union in the better world you are calling for. we will stand with you to defend the values of peace and solidarity, courage and responsibility. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a polish newspaper recently published the following story. what was the first european referendum? answer: when god created eve, he said to adam, "choose for yourself a wife". the picture is right. today, far from being an earthly paradise, the portuguese presidency has taken over from the german presidency. the latter will have been marked by a ruse to impose on the french and dutch a scarcely-manicured and shabby text which they rejected by referendum. this mini-treaty is nothing but the constitution in disguise. a few years ago, mr padoa-schioppa, the father of the euro, wrote in a french magazine that the construction of europe is based more on enlightened despotism than on democracy. we find a striking illustration of this today in this gross manipulation. how can we say that the new text corresponds to the wishes expressed by the french and dutch people in the referenda if it is not subjected to the same referendum test? if you allow me, mr president, i will make a wish here at the dawn of the portuguese presidency: if we do not want the peoples of europe to turn their backs on the political class, the portuguese presidency must break completely with the methods of another age and immediately undertake the only real european reform that the peoples are waiting for: less technocracy, more democracy.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, allow me to take this opportunity to express once again our gratitude for the wonderful reception given by your government and yourself to the chairmen of the parliamentary groups in lisbon recently: it shows your willingness to work seriously with this parliament. we can only approve of a number of your objectives, the ambition of which does not surprise us, including that of helping to solve africa's problems, problems which, it must be admitted, have only worsened since the departure of the european nations, contrary to what some would have us believe. the efforts also made in latin america, and in particular in brazil, which is dear to you and close to you, are legitimate. as i have already said, i believe that the european international policy which you wish to develop will only have any legitimacy and any legitimacy if it is distinguished from that of the hegemonic superpower which the united states of america have become today. i am afraid, mr president, that my colleague watson and many others like him are confusing two things: on the one hand, the necessary restoration of economic freedoms within a nation or within an area with approximately the same social protection parameters, and on the other hand, unbridled free trade which translates into perfectly unfair competition based on social dumping. the truth is that an economy develops initially only in a protective framework, which is true for the major partners in the global market today, japan and china. finally, as regards the intergovernmental conference, you will have to apply a road map which has been proposed to you and which is a real manual for deceiving the electorate. we are preserving the substance of a constitution which, as has just been said, has been rejected, and we are changing the vocabulary. the words 'constitution', 'foreign minister' and 'framework law' are omitted, the charter is not mentioned in the text, it is simply published in the official journal. but we are still maintaining the extension of the union's powers, majority voting, a single presidency which would deprive us of your presence today, if it were in force. we are keeping all that which the peoples have not subscribed to and which they would most likely reject if they were properly informed. mr president, you represent a nation small in size but glorious in the immensity of its history. this was only possible because of the constant struggle that portugal has always waged, from its birth and throughout its history, to defend its independence. i beg you, do not be complicit in the disappearance of that most precious possession of your nation and all of ours, our national independence.
mr president, mr president-in-office, i welcome the fact that justice and home affairs are one of the priorities of your presidency. we share a common and comprehensive vision of immigration. we must have a genuine policy of cooperation with countries of origin, based on respect for fundamental rights, but we must also urgently open up legal immigration channels at european level, and we look forward to a constructive discussion with the presidency on the definition of common rights for third country nationals legally working in europe. it goes without saying that the declarations of good intentions of the european councils on european solidarity in the management of borders and migration flows must be followed by concrete action. that is why it is urgent that the council should consider the necessary revision - and i stress this point - of the dublin ii regulation. we also count on the portuguese presidency to get the council to agree on a return directive which respects the right of asylum and the principle of non-refoulement. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the portuguese presidency must focus on the priority objective of the signature by the 27 member states of a new institutional treaty in lisbon in october, especially since the mandate given to the intergovernmental conference by the last european council is clear and precise. the launch of a new cycle of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs is an opportunity to give the social dimension the importance and visibility it deserves, in particular by better coordinating employment policies and by developing 'flexicurity' in order to reconcile our citizens with europe and its renewed economic model. i am sure that the portuguese presidency will pay particular attention to the outermost regions of the union, whose specific situation it is well aware of, together with madeira and the azores, in order to give a fresh impetus to community action in their favour, particularly those relating to neighbourhood policy and the extra costs generated by the outermost regions. the last brussels summit must be a positive continuation of the summit and a demonstration that the renewal of the european spirit is stronger than national egoisms. i sincerely hope that the portuguese presidency will be able to make the most of the major political impetus which has been given by the german presidency.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i can imagine that the leaders of the union are enthusiastic about seeing their former constitution resurrected, even if it lacks some of its strengths. i agree with what mr voggenhuber has just said. what i find more difficult to understand is why, while these same leaders seem so convinced that they are responding to the deepest wishes of our fellow citizens, they are making such an effort to prevent citizens from getting too close to this unidentified institutional object. how else can we interpret the very particular form of democracy which characterizes the process under way? a negotiating mandate totally illegible to an uninitiated person, a suspicious acceleration of the timetable and, above all, a panic fear of possible referendums. internally, our leaders may be saying to themselves that changing the words 'constitution', 'minister', 'law' and deleting references to the anthem and flag might weigh little against people's concerns about the current european model if, by chance, a substantive public debate of the level and strength that shook part of the union two years ago, and for good reason, were to re-emerge! in the future treaty, the liberal economic structures, whether they affect the central bank, competition, free trade, the movement of capital, will remain essentially unchanged. the charter of fundamental rights, as we have just seen, will not only continue to be seriously flawed, but is called upon to endorse a reality which is in absolute contradiction to its very essence, to endorse an exception, in this case, the british one, or, if you prefer, the right to discrimination, the right to privilege. finally, the new provisions on security and defence policy, which had in many places fuelled many reservations and fears, are all being extended. we must not look elsewhere for the perceived embarrassment of our respective governments. in spain and luxembourg, they will explain that a new popular consultation is superfluous because the substance of the treaty already ratified is fully preserved. in france and sweden, on the other hand, the government will argue that a referendum is no longer relevant since the nature of the text has changed profoundly. in denmark and portugal, where a vote was scheduled, the cosmetic treatment of the 2004 treaty may justify a cowardly abandonment of this test of truth. it is only in ireland that the referendum is, today as yesterday, unavoidable. that is why, with full respect for differences of opinion and national specificities, my group will, with the same determination as in the recent past, undertake a vast effort to inform, clarify the issues, and confront ideas about the content of the future treaty with, everywhere, the same democratic requirement: effective consultation of citizens. in a few days the igc will begin its work, but in the light of experience i am convinced that the mass is not said: see you soon. (applause from the left)
mr president, europe is not limited to its treaties. the commission's proposals are not only, or even mainly, institutional in nature, and the european recovery will have to be achieved through policies, through european projects, through the union's budget. but it is a fact that the blocking of institutional reform, the failure to ratify the constitution in several countries, the non-ratification procedures in others, have bogged down europe, plunged it into crisis and tested its unity. the compromise reached to convene the intergovernmental conference and the mandate for the future amending treaty do not arouse enthusiasm. everything is complicated in this agreement, which contains many footnotes, so that the future treaty will not be simplified at all and will be difficult for citizens to read. the opt-out granted to the charter of fundamental rights is truly regrettable for those who asked for it. at least this charter will apply to the other 26 countries of the union, and that is to their credit. but this agreement is at least one of them, at a time when europe needed to affirm its unity. i believe that the intergovernmental conference should be given every chance and, above all - and i would like to react on this point in particular to the remarks of my colleague, francis wurtz - the mandate to convene the igc has at least one merit: that of taking as a basis for its work the institutional innovations which were, for the most part, contained in the first part of the draft constitution for europe. this is a decisive point, since it was not contested much, even by the 'no' voters, those who claim that the construction of europe is at all events necessary in the countries where the referendum was held. the future treaty should therefore include the elements which are agreed by all sincere europeans, whether they voted yes or no to the constitution: greater powers for the european parliament and the national parliaments, a stable presidency of the council, double majority voting, fewer blocking minorities, fewer decisions subject to unanimity, particularly for judicial and police cooperation, strengthening of the common foreign and security policy, strengthened and structured cooperation in defence policy which will be easier to implement, new powers in the field of energy and climate change. there are also two points which were in the third part but which i think all progressives will want to defend: the horizontal social clause and an article to protect services of general economic interest and therefore to adopt a directive in favour of public services. i hope that if the igc takes up all these points, all supporters of europe, whether they voted yes or no to the draft constitution, will support the future draft treaty. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i call on the commission, first of all, and the council, above all, to show a minimum of decency and modesty in this matter, because the magnificent success that is being sold to us here hardly conceals a regression. i am ignoring the unworthy conduct of certain heads of state and government who have reneged on their public and solemn word, on the charter, like mr blair, on the votes in the council, like the kaczynski brothers. we are moving from a constitution which we lose - words have meaning - a constitution which is a signal of trust in common values and horizons, to a so-called simplified treaty. simplified, what a great joke! the footnotes are longer than the treaty itself. so it is a signal of mutual and widespread distrust that we have to face, and there are many obstacles: opting out of the charter, which will make citizens second-class; obstacles to votes in the council until 2017 and beyond with the ioannina compromise; diplomacy, albeit integrated, but immediately hindered. of course, we must give this igc a mandate. the treaty of nice is not the best solution, because nice is death. but i say to those who are ashamed of europe: nothing solid is built on mistrust, especially when it is directed at the citizen, because we do not even take the time for consultation, not the time for co-decision in parliament - this debate is sloppy - not the time for citizen validation, not even the time for pedagogy. it is true that we must act quickly to hide the fact that the policies are no longer on the table, but are now under the carpet. all of this, unfortunately, will pay off one day. in conclusion, mr president, and because to govern is to foresee, in the face of the inability of the commission and the council to think of the aftermath, i call on parliament to take a leap of faith by confirming by its vote its firm intention to use its future power to amend the treaty to finally and truly restart the european engine. (applause from the green group)
at the last european council in june 2007, the heads of state and government reached a good agreement on moving towards a political europe. i regret that our friends in the united kingdom have once again singled themselves out by refusing to apply the charter of fundamental rights and to cooperate fully in judicial and police matters. even if they are preserved at the material level, i regret that the symbols of the union (flag, anthem and currency) have disappeared from the official text because, while being opposed to a federal european union and having the deep conviction of the very great usefulness of the nations for the well-being of the peoples, i consider that citizens need references to identify the political union. i wish we could come back to this. finally, the removal of the reference to the concept of 'free and undistorted competition within the internal market' will make it possible, in a globalised competition which has become complex, to make better use of the strength of our european union in the service of producers and not just consumers. i welcome the action of the president of the french republic, mr nicolas sarkozy, who has been able to use all his talents for a strong and united europe.
mr president, i would simply like to draw the attention of the translation services to the quality of the french translation. in french, supervision is supervision, not control or surveillance, hedge funds are alternative funds and parliamentary committee is parliamentary committee.
mr president, i think it is humanly reasonable to stop this vote, even if we start a new session tomorrow at 11.30. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i find it unacceptable that the european parliament has rejected the request for a referendum on the new institutional treaty. the "no" vote by the french and dutch people on the old draft constitution showed a huge gap between the expression of the people and that of the leaders and parliamentarians, whether national or european. the new treaty can therefore only be legitimized by a new consultation of the citizens. it would be better if this referendum were european. the european parliament should not be surprised that it is discredited by the citizens with such reports!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my excellent finnish colleague piia-noora kauppila on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 78/855/eec on the merger of public limited liability companies and council directive 82/891/eec on the division of public limited liability companies as regards the requirement for an independent expert report to be drawn up on the occasion of a merger or division. it is appropriate to examine regularly the usefulness of the obligations to be complied with by legal persons, particularly in the light of the administrative costs which these obligations entail. however, in addition to the interests of the entity, the interests of third parties, such as shareholders, employees, suppliers, bankers, tax and social administration authorities, etc., must be carefully examined. the information provided by the european commission should also have been supplemented by an analysis of international practices in this field.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms marie-noëlle lienemann, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2000/60/ec establishing a framework for community policy on water, as regards the implementing powers conferred on the european commission. i also voted in favour of the series of technical amendments by six political groups, including the european people's party (epp), to clarify that the amendment to this directive is part of the joint declaration of the european parliament, the commission and the council on decision 2006/512/ec on the introduction of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny for a series of basic acts; of which this proposal for a directive. nevertheless, i find it regrettable that the european commission does not make a greater effort to ensure that its texts take account of the agreement on comitology by requiring the european parliament to be vigilant about the distribution of powers. the commission should beware of the image it gives itself of wanting, on a regular basis, to have more power. this behaviour of the european commission is infuriating to the citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague karl-heinz florenz on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2000/53/ec on end-of-life vehicles, as regards the implementing powers conferred on the european commission. i also voted in favour of the series of technical amendments by six political groups, including the european people's party (epp), to clarify that the amendment to this directive is part of the joint declaration of the european parliament, the commission and the council on decision 2006/512/ec on the introduction of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny for a series of basic acts; the commission has therefore decided to amend the proposal. nevertheless, i find it regrettable that the european commission, which has the monopoly of the legislative initiative, does not make a greater effort to ensure that its texts are drafted with due care to take account of the agreement on comitology (execution of texts by the commission) by requiring the european parliament to be vigilant about the distribution of powers. the commission should beware of the image it gives itself of wanting, on a regular basis, to have more power. this behaviour of the european commission is infuriating to the citizens.
in writing. the new postal directive, which i voted against, is a case study in the commission's ideological obstinacy. by removing the reserved area on folds of less than 50g, the death sentence of the postal public service is signed. the commission and some members of this parliament are trying to make us believe that the 'universal postal service' is guaranteed by this directive. by rejecting the reserved area as a means of financing, we are faced with an impossible equation: the states - already limited in their budget - should finance the universal service. there is no economic or rational reason to exclude the 'reserved domain' from possible financing methods, except to call into question the universal postal service. precariousness, reduction in the number of post offices, increase in rates for private individuals, end of the equalization of rates and therefore equal access to the postal service... this is what has just been voted. i remain convinced that public services can operate as a network at european level. this is possible and desirable if we want to create a genuine european community. this directive makes us renounce the very function of politics: to regulate and control economic activity, the market, in order to achieve objectives of spatial planning, solidarity, development...
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my german colleague markus ferber on the completion of the internal market for postal services. firstly, i am pleased that the process of gradually and controlled opening up of the postal market, while ensuring the provision of universal service on a lasting basis, is continuing in accordance with the european council resolution of 1994. the political compromise reached between the european people's party (epp), the european socialist party (esp) and the liberal party (eldr) is good and balanced. the date proposed by the european parliament of 31 december 2010 is more realistic than the date proposed by the european commission of 1 january 2009. i voted for various amendments, in particular on the financing of the universal service which must be guaranteed at all times in a fully liberalised postal market and on the definition of this universal service which must guarantee collection and distribution at the home or premises of any natural or legal person every working day, including in isolated or sparsely populated areas. in addition, member states should ensure that a sufficient number of access points are established in rural and sparsely populated areas.
in writing. i voted against the draft postal directive because i am not satisfied with the amendments made by parliament to the commission's proposal for full liberalisation of the postal sector by 1 january 2009, in particular the postponement of two years. paradoxically, this new stage of liberalisation will lead to additional public expenditure, since the commission is at the same time requiring member states to choose a means of financing universal service obligations. the three financing options proposed have already been tried in some member states and have led to major litigation. in addition, the maintenance of the reserved domain (or residual monopoly on mail under 50 grams) was not retained, although it is one of the most efficient and transparent funding routes. the commission's proposal is to keep the area reserved for the european parliament, a policy which i support but which the commission and, today, the majority of members of the european parliament reject. i do not think that the commission's objectives of improving service - quality, price and choice - and unlocking the sector's growth potential can be achieved in this way. on the contrary, i fear the worst for the future of rural, mountainous and island areas.
in writing. i voted against the liberalization of postal services. i also supported the request to reject this directive on the grounds that the reasons for this proposal are contradictory and unrealistic as regards the guarantee of the universality of the service for which the means of financing do not safeguard the right to daily collection and dispatch of mail for all european citizens. finally, i consider that the setting of an a priori expiry date for directive 97/67 is not in line with the results of the consultation of the social partners concerned and of the member states, which have indicated the need to maintain the guarantees of universal service in a uniform, proportionate and equitable manner. in my view, this proposal offers no guarantee that the social aspects of this liberalization will be seriously addressed in order to avoid competition on the labour market and social dumping.
in writing. mr ferber's report on the liberalization of the postal sector does not solve any of the problems raised by the commission's text: the financing of universal service missions, and in particular those not mentioned in the directive and which exist in france in particular, such as the distribution of the press at a lower price, land planning, distribution 6 days a week, the bank for all ...; the implicit challenge of the single tariff and the tariff equalization by the obligation to reflect costs; the participation (concrete or financial) of private operators in public service obligations ... the text was based on a flawed study, which was wrong on some points and which ignored the real results of 10 years of partial liberalization of postal services. it could only be a bad text and a lame compromise. it is a source of legal insecurity and a social threat. the commission's real objective is now clearly apparent. as is usual in this type of case, the aim is not so much to make the services provided to the public and the community more efficient and cheaper as to break up public monopolies and allow private operators, preferably multinational ones, to screen out profitable markets.
in writing. the french post office is not a company like any other, it is a state-owned company, run by revolutionary trade unionists. it's a public service totally at the mercy of private corporate interests. why should we try to defend the public service of the post office when in reality it is not one? the client has no say and the unions claim to act in his best interests. the employer (the state) or the shareholders (every frenchman) are terrified to see the system blocked by certain employees represented by omnipotent and totalitarian unions. there is no counter-power to balance the rights and powers these employees have granted themselves, and it is the public interest that is being flouted. should the post office be liberalized? should we challenge this totally gangrenous system which does not seek to satisfy the customer, but only to sneak around, demonstrate and demand the maintenance of so-called "acquired" advantages? the answer is a resounding yes, and quickly. the postal service now has to make enormous efforts to overcome its major handicaps, which are: the huge wage bill, the weight of pensions and a complex, burdensome, costly and inefficient organisation.
in writing. i cannot accept this total deregulation and the abolition of the 'reserved domain' of the states for postal missions. this general opening to competition is undermining the single stamp tariff, equal treatment of territories and the presence of the postal service in disadvantaged sectors. even in the united states, there is no competition for ordinary mail - less than 50g - and its distribution is ensured by a federal agency. it is clear that the compensation mechanisms for universal service, reduced to a minimum, will in no way guarantee the public service and the extension of the deadline for the implementation of this liberalisation does not resolve anything in the matter. the european council of ministers has just decided to draw up a 'protocol on public services based on the treaty'. it would be right to suspend any new opening to competition in these services.
in writing. the commission's proposal aims to fully open up the eu postal services markets to competition by 2009, in line with the deadline set in the current postal directive. in this context, the european commission has proposed a text which aims to guarantee the financing of universal service by ending the 'reserved domain' and replacing it with new financing instruments. i am opposed to the total liberalization of postal services. the postal service is a public service which we must safeguard. that is why i co- tabled and voted for an amendment calling for the reintroduction of the 'reserved domain' as one of the means of financing the universal service. at present, there is no economic reason to abandon the reserved domain. this financing method, which is currently working very well, should be one of the options available to member states. since this option was not adopted by the european parliament's plenary, i voted against the final text to show my opposition to this unjustified liberalization.
in writing. by eliminating the reserved area which allowed the financing of the universal service, guaranteeing a quality public service for all, by disarming it by means of financing methods left to the choice of each member state, the total liberalization of postal services will result in the disappearance of solidarity between urban and rural areas, the enrichment of shareholders and the increase in the public deficit of local authorities. i therefore voted in favour of the amendment to reinstate the reserved area, which satisfies more than 70% of european citizens. i am a socialist and i am in favour of a postal europe with modern public services, but not at the cost of job losses and human and territorial solidarity. the paradox of this proposal is that, without a new directive, liberalisation will take effect on 1 january 2009. an amendment rejecting the text proposed by the gue makes this liberalisation effective from 1 january 2009, because at that time the 2002 directive applies, and only the 2002 directive applies, which is why i did not support this amendment. i voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the text, which also removed the date of 1 january 2009. i voted against the final text, of course.
in writing. i voted in favour of the compromise drafted by markus ferber because it improves on certain points the original proposal of the european commission. it gives the european posts additional time to prepare for opening up to competition, which has been postponed to 1 january 2011 instead of 2009 as originally planned by the commission. i also supported the compromise because it will protect the terms and conditions of employment of postal workers. the liberalization of markets cannot be at the expense of the workers, even if it is to the benefit of the consumers. our vote also provides security in terms of territorial cohesion. all users are guaranteed access to mail collection and distribution throughout the european union at least five days a week. however, there is still a major difficulty which will be the subject of the second reading. i want to talk about the financing of universal service. we need to have funding mechanisms that are legally secure and sustainable. this is a prerequisite for economic operators in the sector, without which i cannot commit myself to full liberalisation of the sector.
in writing. this report is important because it modernises the law of the single market in air transport, in particular with a view to ensuring the uniform application of community law in all member states and to creating a level playing field for all airlines. i am particularly pleased that amendments nos 35 and 61, for which i voted, were adopted by a large majority. the first calls for clarification of the provisions concerning the law applicable to workers employed in a country other than that of the airline employing them. the second calls on the commission to present clear legislation in this area. it seems to me important that in the present context, when air transport is constantly developing and when airlines are opening establishments in different countries of the union, the law applicable to workers in these establishments should be clearly established.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my dutch colleague ieke van den burg in response to the commission's white paper on financial services policy 2005-2010. i am glad that this report commends the commission on its priorities: consolidating the european financial market, removing obstacles to the free movement of capital and improving the control of financial services. concentration risks, attention to new alternative financial instruments, access to finance, including micro-credit, analysis of the systemic risk of a serious financial crisis, etc. are all topics on which european citizens hope for greater security by relying on the regulation and control of these activities. the lack of financial literacy among citizens is also a concern. i commend the work of my friend jean-paul gauzès, rapporteur for opinions for the committee on legal affairs, and he is right to stress the importance of impact assessments for any new european legislation or significant legislative change, which are very inadequately carried out by the european commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my polish colleague jacek protasiewicz on the european commission's green paper on the modernisation of labour law which is essential to achieve the objective of the lisbon strategy; the commission's proposal is to create a european network of national and regional authorities responsible for the implementation of the european union's employment strategy. we must reconcile flexibility, which is a condition for adapting to the volatility of the markets, which is itself only a consequence of that of consumers, with security, which is a value of the european social model. it is surprising that the european commission can consider the indefinite duration employment contract to be outdated and i am pleased that the european parliament has reaffirmed that the full-time indefinite duration contract (ftt) is the normal form of employment relationship by being considered as the reference. finally, the role of the social partners in the reform of labour markets and the indisputable usefulness of collective agreements in reforming labour law must be emphasised. in this respect, the social partners will have to make greater use of the legal possibilities offered by the present treaty.
in writing. i did not approve the report which, in the name of modernity, wants to introduce a new stage of flexibility in work, reflecting a flexicurity which, unfortunately, has almost no safety component. it is the immediate and certain widespread flexibility, and the rare, random and for later security. everything is included: working hours, wages, benefits, working conditions. we are light years away from the defence of a european social model. to move to flexicurity, let's start with more security because there is too much flexibility imposed on employees!
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. i am convinced that full implementation of directive 96/71/ec is essential to achieve a fair balance between the freedom to provide services and the protection of workers, in particular against social dumping. i believe that it would be appropriate in the member states where the directive is implemented by means of collective agreements for the social partners to have direct access to information on companies posting workers in order to be able to exercise effective control. finally, i would invite the member states to consider a future revision of their regulations on definitions and instruments, so as to be able to combat letterbox companies and fake selfemployment.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot resist the urge to react to the speeches by mr juncker and his visitor of an evening, by advising the former not to be misled by this visitor of an evening, particularly as regards the nature of the deficits he is creating in france. by the way, these deficits have nothing to do with new investment in research, development and innovation, as the lisbon strategy suggests, but they are mainly due to a €14 billion tax cut targeted at the wealthiest people in france, which is causing most economists to question its alleged positive impact on growth in the european union. i'll close the parenthesis here. i now wish to thank mr gay mitchell for his report and the work he has done in this respect in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. this report shows that there has been significant progress and advances, particularly in the transparency of the work and decisions of the european central bank and the democratisation of appointment procedures. the text also calls for greater caution in the event of further interest rate rises, so as not to jeopardize growth. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the union. finally, we can welcome the consensus reached in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the need to invest massively in research, education and training. that said, i return to the question of exchange rates because, contrary to the fatalism and immobility that surround us, we want to remind ourselves that the instruments for action exist. does article 111 of the treaty not provide, and i quote, that 'in the absence of an exchange rate system with respect to one or more non-community currencies ... the council, acting by a qualified majority either on a recommendation from the commission and after consulting the ecb or on a recommendation from the ecb, may formulate the general guidelines of exchange rate policy with regard to these currencies'? that is what we are asking you, mr juncker, mr trichet and mr almunia: general orientations of exchange rate policy vis-à-vis the currencies of our main partners and competitors, rather than a general laissez-faire and uncredible statements about the absence of economic impact of a vastly overvalued euro. finally, i should like to say a few words on a matter on which there is still a major disagreement between the two parts of the house: wage policy. like you, mr juncker, we see that the share of wages in the euro area's gdp is continuing to fall and that, along with this, the salaries, golden parachutes and other stock options of the managers and executives of large companies are a real provocation for european workers whose purchasing power is declining. like you, mr almunia, we are calling for a legal minimum wage in every country of the union or at least in the euro zone. encouraging the social partners to agree on significant wage increases, as the social partners in the german metal industry have done, is not only a step towards a better distribution of the fruits of growth, but also, in our view, a contribution to the sustainability of growth by improving household confidence and increasing consumption.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would first like to say to mr juncker that he should not be formalizing it if we are so few in this house. i myself would have liked to have stayed in my office to have the pleasure of seeing it up close on my television. the conditions for debate in this chamber are quite difficult. i would like to say first and foremost that i am very happy to see that mr mitchell's report is in line with the discussions of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy as a whole over the last few years. for the first time we have a relatively unanimous report, which allows us to record agreements on points where we differed. first, the idea that structural reforms can take place and can increase the potential growth rate compared to what we had in the 1990s, and that it may already be happening. secondly, the explicit assertion that the reforms on the labour market do not concern unconditional wage moderation but, as mr juncker said, moderation qualified by a proportionality with productivity growth and that this growth is built up by improving human capital, by training and research, and not by reducing social guarantees. the third major advance in mr gay mitchell's report is that the question of paragraph 111 of the treaty is at last properly addressed. it is the council that is responsible for setting the exchange rate policy. i will tell jean-claude juncker that he should also listen to what mr louis gallois has to say about the competitiveness of airbus. we cannot say that there is any particular country which has difficulty in adapting to the current exchange rates. in paragraph 10 of gay mitchell's resolution, we tell the jean-claude's to agree with joaquim, which is to be welcomed.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, what the union needs is not governance but political action on the economies to promote growth that creates stable and, above all, well-paid jobs. the policy of the european central bank is harmful because it sets as its sole objective the lowest possible rate of inflation, whereas it should include structural policy elements such as growth, as the us central bank does. the creation of the euro without the parallel establishment of a federal budget at the level of the states concerned has led to the disappearance of the instrument of devaluation, without providing other means of protection. the undervaluation of the dollar is, from this point of view, a weapon of mass destruction of european industrial capacity, and it is not your self-satisfied speeches that can hide this reality from the exorbitant and unbearable cost of the overvaluation of the euro. this mistake has cost european workers and citizens dearly. the euro area can no longer function in its current form; the european council in brussels in december last year stressed the need to change the status of the central bank and the very organization of the euro. the use of customs protection is urgent. the time has come to put in place industrial policies which guarantee the defence of the vital interests of the peoples of the union and enable the creation of jobs and the defence of the common interests of european workers.
madam president, mr president, mr commissioner, i think this is a good week for the euro. firstly, because this is the first time that this euro-zone macroeconomic dialogue is taking place here in this european parliament. i hope this is the beginning of a good habit; the euro has a parliamentary visibility in this debate, and i welcome that. and then, it was also the week when a newly elected president of the republic felt that what he was going to propose to his country he had to justify himself within the eurogroup. it seems to me that a few years ago this would not have happened in this country where the budgetary strategy would have been considered a matter of national sovereignty. the collective debate on the management of the euro has progressed, and i am pleased about that. you have asked for the right to judge the effectiveness of the 13 billion tax rewards that have been proposed, and i can only follow your proposal. but for the future, i would like to invite you to go even further. firstly, because i believe that the preventive arm of the stability pact does not allow us to achieve what we need, namely ex ante coordination to organise strategic investments for the future in a coordinated way and to anticipate the effects of structural reforms together, because what happens in one country in terms of structural reforms has an impact on other countries. and then i want to invite you to open the debate on the exchange rate issue. this is a matter which article 111 of the treaty allows you to raise, including at council level. it should also be considered as a matter of common interest, as the treaty calls for in article 99.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no paradox or contradiction in approving the conclusions of the excellent reports before us and in supporting the courageous and determined action of the french government to carry out the necessary reforms and promote growth. there is no paradox or contradiction because france is back in europe. by solemnly affirming his commitment to european integration, the president of the french republic has made a powerful contribution to the revival of europe and to the breakthrough from the impasse in which it found itself. the agreement reached at the brussels summit, thanks to the efforts of chancellor angela merkel, is the first concrete example of this. the work includes improving the functioning of the euro area. the stability and growth pact, which has governed the budgets of the euro area countries since 1999 and sets out the budgetary discipline to be applied by the member states to avoid excessive deficits, must be applied without weakness because it contributes to monetary stability. of course, contrary to what has been said, france does not call into question the rules of the stability and growth pact, which remain fundamental. but it is important to respect its criteria while keeping in mind the objective of growth. its application must be intelligent and dynamic. it is in this spirit that the president of the french republic has been keen to provide the necessary explanations on the ambitious programme of structural reforms which he is going to implement. the fruitful dialogue that has been initiated has made it possible to clarify positions. nicolas sarkozy confirmed his commitment to do everything possible to meet the 2010 deadline, if the growth shock he expects from these measures produces the expected effects in terms of tax revenues. france has already committed itself to bringing its public deficit down to 2.4% as from 2007. budgetary consolidation efforts will not be released to reduce public debt. i am one of those who believe that the role of the eurogroup should be strengthened. with a stable and high-quality president, it must continue its search for consistency and coordination of national economic policies. finally, it will be able to act as a useful counterweight to the conduct of an economic policy geared to growth and employment, while respecting the independence of the european central bank.
for the greens/efa group mr president, you, mr antunes, together with nine of your colleagues, have advocated a new approach to palestine. it's a good place to start, indeed. the report by mr de soto, the united nations special coordinator, is a blunt criticism of the quartet's strategy, and the union itself is not doing much about it. his strategy has failed to encourage the normalization of hamas in the political field, nor the respect by israel of its international obligations, nor the efforts of palestinian unity. the disaster today is human; it is economic and social; it is political. so what new approach should we develop? the european union, commissioner, is not a charitable organization. it must be politically committed and, in the first place, must offer a credible prospect of a final settlement of the conflict. the potential of the peace plan presented by the arab league must be fully exploited to this end. the union must commit itself to an international peace conference involving all the parties. she must do it decisively, even if it means pulling the quartet by the hand. the union must use all means at its disposal to enable the israeli authorities to meet their international obligations and to achieve tangible results in the field of law for the benefit of palestinian civilians. the union should assume its responsibilities at the rafah border and denounce, where appropriate publicly, the obstacles to its monitoring mission. the blockade of the gaza strip, which is creating conditions conducive to the explosion of violence and which was followed by the hamas coup d'état, must be lifted. the movement of people and goods between gaza and the west bank, as well as between gaza and israel, must be restored. i would conclude, mr president, by saying that in such a case the union should propose to its partners to consider the appropriateness of an international force to give peace its best chance.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the reason we have asked the council and the commission today is that the consent we are being asked to give to amend the trips agreement in order to make the transitional solution of august 2003 final raises many questions. following the debate in the parliamentary committee on this mechanism, all the experts interviewed were unanimous in their criticism of this solution, which only partially addresses the problems faced by countries lacking pharmaceutical production capacity and, therefore, the difficulties of access to care for their population. while it was supposed to provide a quick and effective response, this mechanism is considered complex and even inefficient. despite the commitment of the council and the commission to the parliament, no evaluation was carried out. so there are still doubts about him. "it has never been evaluated because it has never been used", the commission replies, claiming that this does not presuppose its ineffectiveness. that is a fine rhetoric in reverse logic, but it is by no means an argumentative response. the questions that parliamentarians are asking are: why has this solution never been used? does it respond to the scale of the problem? if not, what new actions should the union take to achieve the stated objective? there can be no discrepancy between the intentions expressed and the deeds. in its statements, the union supports the doha declaration, the trips flexibilities and the states which make use of them. it also undertakes not to require developing countries to apply new intellectual property rules that are more stringent than those provided for in the wto, as this would undermine effective access to treatment. yet these statements are not followed by effects. let's start by understanding each other. for example, what is meant by flexibility? for us, this concept encompasses all flexibilities, not just the 2003 solution. in its statements, the commission refers only to the latter. as for the intellectual property rules that go beyond the trips agreement, how do we define them? do we identify the same? in its statements, the commission refrains from resorting to such rules, but the negotiations carried out do not necessarily reflect this commitment. its representatives sometimes even justify the use of these in the name of the fight against counterfeiting, which is a completely different debate. finally, there must be clear political support for each country that uses any flexibility, which is not the case in practice. what we are asking for is transparency and a balance between public discourse and negotiations behind closed doors. we believe that the problem is much more than simply expressing agreement to an international protocol. this is a political and humanitarian problem of great magnitude which requires a genuine political will to rise to the challenge. we now want clear commitments on many points, all of which will be included in our resolution which will be voted on tomorrow. this requires a joint political declaration with parliament before we vote. we will not settle for another debate without a specific commitment. we want a solemn commitment from the council and the commission to ensure that europe is actively involved in finding new solutions and that it has the ambition to be, as our citizens want, a leading player in the fight for access to affordable medicines for everyone in the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the role and effectiveness of cohesion policy in reducing disparities in the poorest regions of the eu (2006/2176 (ini)) (a6-0241/2007).
member of the commission. madam president, it is a pleasure to come before parliament to exchange views on the geringer de oedenberg report on the role and effectiveness of cohesion policy in reducing disparities in the poorest regions of the european union. once again, as in the case of other own-initiative reports adopted by the committee on regional development, this proves the excellent collaboration between our two institutions. i am speaking on behalf of mrs hübner, who has had to go to romania, and she sends you her best wishes. i welcome this report and i appreciate its positive contribution to the debate on the impact and effectiveness of cohesion policy at a critical moment of the 2007-2013 programming period and on the eve of the budgetary review to be carried out in the year 2008/09. i fully share the view that the cohesion policy is not only essential but also effective in reducing socioeconomic and territorial disparities and in tapping the development potential of all eu regions. the value added of cohesion policy has already been proved, and we all recognise that it goes well beyond financial transfers to include, among other things, the development of partnerships, exchanges of best practice, budgetary stability and a strategic approach. i particularly appreciate the theme and the content of your report because it touches on the backbone of cohesion policy. indeed, the main goal of our policy is to reduce the socioeconomic and territorial disparities in the poorest eu regions. the challenge is not negligible. these disparities have dramatically increased following the recent enlargements, and cohesion policy is the only community instrument specially designed to this aim. for instance, disparities in gdp per head between the top and bottom 10% eu regions have almost doubled after the two most recent enlargements. in fact, regional disparities in the eu are very important, much more than within the united states or japan, or of a similar dimension to that in china and india for instance. despite impressive growth rates in the new member states and the convergence of many regions of the eu-15, there are still 70 regions – home to 123 million europeans – with a gdp per head below 75% of the eu average. in addition, there are a number of regions – the majority of which are among the most developed ones – which are losing ground. in 27 regions, gdp per head declined in real terms between the years 2000 and 2004 and, in another 24, growth was under 0.5% per year. nevertheless, as explained in full in the recently published fourth cohesion report, convergence is taking place. this is due both to the accelerated growth of most of the new member states and to the sometimes sluggish performance of some of the most advanced ones. on the whole, the periphery of the eu is catching up with the core of europe not only in terms of gdp per head but also of employment, productivity and other indicators, and this is good news. this includes the former cohesion countries which, with the exception of portugal, in the last few years have experienced impressive progress. this phenomenon – the long-term convergence process – is especially occurring at eu level between member states and regions. we know that, at national level, the picture is somehow different, since in many cases growth is increasingly concentrated in the capital region or in the main metropolitan areas, which deepens the internal disparities and causes problems related to agglomeration, like transport congestion, pollution, housing price rises and so on. let me underline the substantial contribution of our policy to this overall positive convergence process. independent evaluation studies have shown that cohesion policy has supported much-needed investment in infrastructure, human resources, modernisation and diversification of regional economies. between 2000 and 2005, public investment in the four cohesion countries has been around 25% higher than it would have been without cohesion policy. it has contributed to the growth of gdp. increasing gdp levels attributable to regional policy ranged from 10% in greece and 8.5% in portugal in the period 1989-1999, and 6% for greece and portugal, 4% in the german länder and 2.4% in spain in the period 2000-2006. preliminary estimates for 2007-2013 suggest an impact of between 5% and 9% in the new member states. it has also contributed to reduced social exclusion and poverty. cohesion policy cofinances the training of nine million people annually. more than half of them are women, leading to better employment conditions and higher income. for example, over 450 000 gross jobs were generated in six countries: denmark, france, the netherlands, spain, sweden and the uk. between 2000 and 2005 it accounted for two thirds of objective 2 funding. it has helped shift the policy mix of public investment in member states towards growth-enhancing investment. according to the most recent data, the amount of cohesion investment earmarked for research and development, innovation and information and communication technologies (icts) for 2007-2013 has more than doubled in comparison with the years 2000-2006. clearly, it remains to be seen how these plans will be implemented, but we already see, among both the member states and the regions, an increasing awareness in their development strategies for the next financial period. certainly, one of the keys of this success lies in the fact that cohesion policy is an integrated, fully-fledged policy; it is not a sectoral policy, or a disjointed bundle of sectoral policies, but an integrated instrument aimed at delivering specific tailor-made solutions for each european region or territory. at the same time, it is not just an eu policy that operates in isolation but it certainly depends on the active involvement of partners at national, regional and local level. your report correctly points to a number of issues which are particularly relevant for the poorest regions if they are to make the best use of the allocated funds. i shall mention just a few likely to provide them with appropriate technical assistance. the importance of designing tailor-made development strategies, or the value of implementing effective partnership and encouraging good practices. i took note of your proposals. i am convinced that some of them will find their way into the current legislative framework that has given rise to the new initiatives recently adopted by the commission, like the three ‘j’s – jasper, jeremy and jessica – or regions for economic change. the flexibility of cohesion policy makes it possible to implement the best measures adopted for each case. in this regard, mrs hübner will ensure that the commission pays particular attention to the needs of the poorest regions in the ongoing negotiations on the programming documents for the years 2007-2013. i also appreciate the contribution of your report to the debate on future cohesion policy, which was launched by the publication of the fourth cohesion report. i welcome these valuable recommendations aiming at increasing the efficiency of cohesion policy. as you know, we are now at the initial stage of reflection on the future of cohesion policy. this debate aims at nurturing the review of the eu budget that the commission has to undertake in the years 2008 and 2009. in conclusion, you are aware that the public consultation on the future of cohesion policy will be launched following the cohesion forum to be held at the end of september. a dedicated internet site will collect the contributions of member states, regions, cities, eu institutions, economic and social partners and, of course, civil society organisations. the commission intends to present the results of this consultation in spring 2008, together with the fifth progress report on economic and social cohesion. on the basis of this and other own-initiative reports recently approved, i am very much looking forward to parliament’s contribution to this debate.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, like my colleague, mrs krehl, i congratulate you on your election and on your first presidency. commissioner potočnik, i would like to say that this report, which has been presented in an excellent way by our colleague, mrs geringer de oedenberg, is first of all a cry from the heart. it is also a necessity for the european union, as our colleague mr krehl has just said, and it is an appeal to the commission. it is a cry from the heart because the development of poor regions is not just the development of regions, it is the taking into account of situations, sometimes dramatic, of people who are unemployed, or who have to move, etc. so it's a cry from the heart on a human level. it is also a necessity - the report explains it well - for the development of the european union. having said that, commissioner, we must go further and not see my remarks as criticism but as a statement of fact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. well, in our colleague's report there are a number of proposals. what i would like to say in the few seconds i have is that we need the commission to be clear today on the following level: who is doing what, when and how? who is it? what is the function of the european union? i think that we have, for the most part, set the conditions well in terms of funding, regulations and so on. the report by our colleague contains some additional ideas, particularly on the financial aspects, technical assistance aspects, etc., to strengthen the commission's driving force, to consolidate its power of proposal and assistance. but then there is almost no mention of the role of the member states. if we want to help the regions in difficulty, it is not enough to say 'there is european money', but member states must also take their responsibilities. and at this level, the commission cannot impose, the principle of subsidiarity requires. on the other hand, observations and suggestions can be made in the light of what has happened in ireland, the mezzogiorno, etc. finally, i must say that yesterday i myself received mayors from very small municipalities in disadvantaged areas: well, it is up to them to build the projects, we just have to explain to them how to do it. in conclusion, commissioner, what i personally expect, in addition to what is stated in the report by our colleague, is that the commission, in fact, tells us who is doing what and how.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the voting time in a few minutes.
that will be recorded in the minutes.
in writing. i fully support the report by my colleague willi piecyck. this text, which is the european parliament's response to the commission's green paper on the european union's maritime policy, addresses many important points. this includes the challenge of climate change for maritime policy: european maritime policy must play an important role in this area by focusing on reducing co2 emissions from ships, the possible integration of ships into the emissions trading system and the promotion of renewable energy. a sustainable balance between environmental protection and the commercial exploitation of europe's oceans is essential. i also believe, as we have voted, that the commission must strengthen all measures relating to civil and criminal liability in the event of accidents or incidents and pay greater attention to the application of the rules making double-hulls compulsory.
in writing. i voted for all the amendments which stressed the environmental dimension of this maritime policy. it is imperative that the environmental pillar of the maritime strategy is not a mere sentimental addition, but that the restoration of the good ecological condition of the seas and oceans is an imperative objective that conditions the arbitrages in other eu and member state policies. the deterioration of the ocean ecosystem has serious consequences for the planet and human activities: the disappearance of fish stocks, the reduction of the regulatory role of the climate and the oceans. the reasons are mainly pollution caused by human activities. the environmental priority must therefore be firmly affirmed and the future marine framework directive must be binding on the states and the policies of the union.
in writing. i am pleased that the european union has reached an agreement with the united states on the transfer of passenger data. i recognize that a european agreement was necessary before the interim agreement came to an end. i regret, however, that this agreement contains important shortcomings in areas which are essential to this house. the reduction in the number of data transmitted is only incidental. the switch from pull to push was made in 2004, this should have happened a long time ago. i welcome the fact that the us data protection law has been extended to european citizens because we asked for it. this is, however, threatened by the fact that these are non-binding insurance policies and not a legally binding agreement. the department of homeland security also reserves the right to establish data protection exemptions without any specific criteria. finally, i would like to denounce the lack of democratic control, the significant increase in the retention period for personal data, up to 15 years, and the lack of a proper evaluation of this agreement. we asked for these points to be the basis of the new nrp agreement, and i regret that the council has not heard these requests from parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my polish colleague dariusz rosati in response to the european commission's 2007 annual declaration on the euro area. my first words will be to welcome the technical and financial success of the euro and the smooth functioning of the euro area and i would like to congratulate slovenia, which i hope will soon be chaired by my friend alojz peterle, who should be the next president-in-office of the union, for having qualified for the euro area on 1 january 2007 and i hope for the same success for cyprus and malta on 1 january 2008. it is becoming imperative, as nicolas sarkozy, president of the french republic, regularly emphasises, to strengthen the functioning of the euro area, both in its structures and in concrete economic governance. similarly, some member states, including france, must take advantage of this good economic situation to put their public finances in order. finally, it is urgent that the economic and monetary union (emu) works with the european central bank (ecb) to introduce greater coherence between monetary policy and growth and employment as required by the treaties.
in writing. i abstained on the own-initiative report by my irish colleague gay mitchell on the 2006 annual report of the european central bank. indeed, while i am very much in favour of the independence of the european central bank (ecb) because our economic and monetary history teaches us that we should never again entrust the conduct of money to politicians, i do not think the report addresses enough how the european system of central banks (escb) does not pay enough attention to economic growth. it should be borne in mind that article 105 of the treaty establishing the european community provides that, without prejudice to the objective of price stability, the escb shall support the general economic policies in the community with a view to contributing to the achievement of the objectives set out in article 2; the commission's objective is to promote the balanced and sustainable development of economic activities, a high level of employment and social protection, a high degree of competitiveness and convergence of economic performance. if we must have a strong euro to preserve our assets, we must not have a too strong euro to develop sustainable economic growth, especially for exports.
in writing. two remarks on the two reports we voted on today, on the activity of the european central bank and the euro area. the first is that we feel that we have no control over the single currency. it does exist, so what? it does not induce growth - the associated budgetary and structural reforms are supposed to do so - nor does convergence of economic cycles, performance, bank interest rates, etc. as for european monetary policy, we can only continue to deplore its inadequacy in relation to the needs of the euro-area member states, the eight rate hikes by the central bank in eighteen months, their dubious motivation and the persistent absence of any exchange rate policy. it is particularly noteworthy, and this is my second point, that despite the process - which i consider illegitimate - of reforming the treaties, there is not a single instance of questioning the stated objective of this policy in order to finally force the frankfurt bank to support growth and employment rather than the ideological creation of a european monetary area. mr sarkozy, who sometimes plays the role of finance minister, does not seem to be able to change this situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in the middle east. i remain very concerned about the humanitarian situation of the palestinian civilian population as a whole. concrete measures must be taken to improve the living conditions of all palestinians (reversal of all taxes, partial lifting of 500 dams in the west bank, opening of the gaza strip crossings to international aid). as a french socialist mep, i insist that the european union and the international community do everything possible to ensure that humanitarian aid and emergency aid is provided to the people of gaza. finally, i call for the resumption of the internal political dialogue between the palestinians, which must aim at the formation of a new government in a spirit of reconciliation and national unity in order to prevent the geographical and political division of the west bank and gaza.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the trips agreement and access to medicines. i believe that access to affordable pharmaceuticals in poor developing countries and ldcs is a key condition for achieving the development objectives proposed by the european union. in my view, this would contribute to poverty reduction, enhanced human security and the promotion of human rights and sustainable development. in this sense, the policy of the european union should aim at maximising the availability of pharmaceuticals at affordable prices in developing countries. finally, i ask the council to support developing countries that use the flexibilities embedded in the trips agreement and recognized by the doha declaration, so that they are able to provide essential medicines at affordable prices as part of their national public health programmes.
in writing. the pair "medicines and the poor countries of the south" poses a problem of reconciling "intellectual property rights of pharmaceutical laboratories and human rights to health". in hong kong, the wto summit found an arrangement which, for the time being, does not translate into the field of tuberculosis, malaria or aids. medicines, generic or not, are not available to the general public. but the bold solution in the long run requires that the concept of the "common heritage of mankind", which dates back to the 1960s, be taken up here. the big diseases have been brought to the planet by migrants and travel. they can strike humanity. we've seen it with sars and avian flu. so, "to the planetary disease, the planetary medicine". medicines for the treatment of planetary diseases must be "brevet common heritage of mankind". the legal regime for these 21st century patents would be open, as would the royalty to be paid from intergovernmental contributions. one can think of "public-private partnerships" involving "multinational pharmaceutical companies and who" or governments. one can think of an "enterprise" with international status, of the type envisaged for the exploitation of the seabed. the key is the innovative principle of a planetary management of the risks of planetary pandemics.
in writing. i thank mrs geringer from oedenberg for agreeing to support my amendments to recall once again that most of the outermost regions (ors) are still among the poorest regions in the european union. in this connection, article 299 (2) of the treaty states that the community must adapt its policies and adopt specific measures in favour of the outermost regions, taking account of the permanence and combination of their structural and geographical handicaps. i support the strategy that the union is deploying in favour of its outermost regions, but i ask the commission to clarify quickly the content of the 'enhanced partnership' it has adopted, particularly with regard to improving their competitiveness, and the action plan for the wider neighbourhood. the structural policies in the outermost regions would have an even greater impact if the commission were more flexible, agreeing to break free, where necessary, from certain 'community dogmas', and taking greater account of the particular conditions of these regions. i look forward to the new communication on the outermost regions which the commission has promised for this year, and i hope that it will bring a new lease of life to the regions suffering from the handicaps caused by the outermost regions.
i have no further explanation of vote.
sir, you weren't registered and i closed the explanatory vote. i'm sorry about that. next time, give us a heads up. that said, i would point out that you can make your explanation of vote in writing. (the sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
on behalf of the its group. mr president, it is good to make a resolution on iraq with the concern for humanitarian aid, refugees, international aid, etc. who would not agree with recital a and its conclusion: 100 killed a day, 200 injured a day, 70% of the population without water, 3 million undernourished and 2 million refugees, including 500 000 children in syria, jordan, egypt, etc! but who did this? who's responsible? who started the chaos? is it saddam hussein, is it the baath party? chaos was born of war, an unjust war in the sense of medieval theologians, an illegal war in the sense of the un charter, a war that was unleashed as a result of the lies of two heads of state, american and british. and who supported this war here in the european parliament? who justified, who asked, who approved the intervention from which the chaos came? there was the current french foreign minister, mr kouchner, and there were some of the signatories to that resolution. what do you mean, "i'm not"? that it is good to do humanitarian work by dealing with the effects, but it is better to do prevention by avoiding the causes. and that is the problem with political europe! in europe we love human rights so much that everywhere, in palestine, in iraq, in africa, in economic globalization, we support policies which, by violating these human rights, allow us to reaffirm our infinite love for these same human rights violated downstream, with our support upstream. it is therefore good to propose post-traumatic centres for refugees in paragraph 16, but we should also provide for political prevention centres here for our leaders, to teach them wisdom, lucidity, the courage to say 'no' and the refusal of exterminating evangelicalism.
i hope that the european parliament will be able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union, and that the european parliament will be able to give its opinion on the future of the union. when it's not chechnya, it's transnistria, when it's not transnistria, it's the fate of journalists. i think we have a big problem on our doorstep called russia because on this issue, as on so many others, the solution goes through moscow. everyone in this house knows that. i think the commission must use its power to punch the table, because these constant attempts at destabilisation by russia to try to regain the soviet empire are no longer acceptable in the third millennium. this story is now almost fifteen years old. fifteen years is a long time. that is to say, there are whole age groups of the population of this country, who have known nothing but destabilization, this authoritarian and self-proclaimed regime. i am ignoring all the human rights violations because my colleagues have given details, although i must point out, as they do, that it is imperative that action be taken in the case of mr tudor petrov-popa and mr andrei ivantoc. however, this is a matter that really needs to be dealt with in a global way. this is a frozen conflict. i hate that word, like a conflict can be frozen, like a conflict is something cold, sleeping somewhere in a closet. it is about men and women who suffer because the law is not respected. and moldova is not far away. it's on the edge of the european union. to talk about transnistria is to look at the sidewalk across from you. i really ask the commission to look at what is happening on the sidewalk opposite.
mr president, many tragedies in our countries remind us of our european obligations. this is the case in my country, where a cargo ship killed a fisherman. and that brings us back to maritime safety. this allowed the french to discover the island nation of kiribati. i encourage you to look at your atlas, it's not very well known, but it's a flag of complacency. it is urgent that the european union should take a firm stand against complacency, that it should speed up the legislation of the 'erika iii' package, that it should devise an 'erika iv' package on the social issue of training and working conditions for seafarers and that, at the same time, it should better coordinate the action of our states present at the international maritime organisation. it's an old article, and it's been coming back often, but there are many tragedies that remind us of it. i would encourage you, commissioner, and the council representative who is not here, to continue your efforts to ensure that the
mr president, i would like to inform you of the trial currently taking place in agrigento, sicily, against seven tunisian fishermen accused of promoting illegal immigration, even though on 8 august they rescued 44 people, including 11 women, including two pregnant women, and two children. they are accused of promoting illegal immigration, and this on european soil. i believe that the crime of solidarity which is now taking place, and which is reflected in this trial, must be clearly denounced by the parliamentarians. a delegation is due to go to agrigento this friday. i can only encourage members of parliament and the first of them, mr president, to show their support for these seven tunisian fishermen.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all, on behalf of the its group, to express my sympathy and support to the families of the victims and to the entire greek people. sixty-three dead, missing persons, villages destroyed, 200 000 hectares burned - as my colleagues have reminded us - tens of thousands of cattle burned, the consequences for the national and, above all, local economy, which have not yet been fully assessed, are the sad result of the fires which have ravaged greece since the end of august. the european union, as usual, is going to pull out its checkbook to help rebuild and, as usual, it is taking advantage of a tragedy to propose an extension of its powers with the establishment of a permanent european civil protection force. but that would not have added anything to the solidarity of the european countries which sent helicopters, water bombers and firefighters to help their greek colleagues. as they did two years ago in portugal and as they will do in future whenever a european state needs them. and, as always, the european union is hiding its own responsibilities. the policy on forest fire prevention is no longer self-financed and is now drowned in the life programme, which focuses on training, communication and statistical monitoring of fires for the small part of the subject. the greeks are angry and rightly so, because the scale of this disaster is the result of a series of human failings: poorly maintained forest areas, poorly trained firefighters, insufficient equipment, lack of coordination of operations, inadequate urban planning policy, late requests for help and, above all, lack of prevention. this is especially mind-boggling as the mediterranean country is regularly subject to fires and drought and has been experiencing its third heat wave since the beginning of the year. he did not realize that, given this peculiarity of climate, he needed to set up a real air force of water bombers. but it is not only mr karamanlis' government that must be blamed, even if its wait-and-see attitude in the first few days is particularly scandalous: only a thousand firefighters, only 440 soldiers. we must also question, and the responsible parties are also its socialist predecessors, pasok. new democracy and its allies are collectively responsible for the lack of human and material resources available for firefighting, but also for the lack of a proper prevention policy. the terrible catastrophe which has just occurred in greece is, unfortunately, only a demonstration of the bankruptcy of a system and the greek citizens will have the opportunity in a few days to punish a compromised political class and to elect other political decision-makers. may they make the right choice!
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, of course, the debate on such a serious subject will also touch upon directly or indirectly related areas. let me speak in general terms about european solidarity, the solidarity fund and some of the circumstances from which we can learn. in 2002, i had the opportunity to lead a country that was hit by enormous floods. it was together with the federal republic of germany and austria. the scale of this disaster was the impetus for the solidarity fund. this disaster occurred in august and the czech republic received the first payments in january. i can clearly state that it was incredible speed. from scratch, to create a policy concept, to create a structure and to implement aid. this assistance has been significant and has been greatly appreciated here. since then, i have learned very well the importance of solidarity, not only financial but also general. i can never forget the danish firefighters, the french firefighters and many people from all the other countries of europe who have contributed to help us deal with this disaster. the experience i've had is that even when a country is well organized, there are disasters that simply transcend its borders. it's impossible to maintain the strength permanently at the level needed to handle these extreme situations. i think it is therefore very appropriate to look for techniques and procedures which will enable us to intervene in such cases in coordination and at the level of the european union. so this is a very substantial matter. and how we find the specific form is perhaps still a matter of open discussion. but it is clear that the capacity to respond and mobilise resources at or through the european level is extremely important and is currently still lacking. because very little was said about bulgaria not receiving aid. because the capacity was simply exhausted. there was no reasoning behind this. there just weren't enough planes, there wasn't enough trained personnel. as regards the aid itself to greece, in this situation it is clear that this aid is ready. it will be introduced at the initiative of the greek government. and in any case, all the commission's bodies will act in such a way that we can implement the aid as quickly and as targeted as possible. let me just quickly underline what i said in my opening remarks. the solidarity fund is involved, having intervened on at least 20 or 30 occasions since its creation. the flood was the impetus for its establishment. he's intervened or helped in the case of huge hurricanes like hurricane gudrun or hurricane kyril. it's going to be used to help with these catastrophic wildfires. these are the possibilities of the structural funds, which can be restructured on the basis of new experience and new needs, and we are also prepared to do so, partly because commissioner hübner has been in greece. because the other experience, which is very significant, the personal experience of such disasters is worth a lot of television footage. ladies and gentlemen, the current debate has also touched on climate change, prevention, flood prevention, nature conservation strategy, land use planning, construction and many others. all these things are unmistakably related. and that is why it is very important to look for answers at the european level, as we do. ladies and gentlemen, let me end my performance very simply. solidarity is needed, and when you feel it, even in very difficult situations, you are much stronger than you would expect. thank you, sir.
in writing. i share the position expressed in the motion for a resolution before us and express my full solidarity with the greek people affected by this tragedy. the european union must provide substantial aid to greece as soon as possible and seriously improve its capacity and resources in terms of civil protection and emergency response. unfortunately, the weather has been unforgiving in other parts of europe this summer. for example, cyclone dean, with winds of over 200 km/h, is one of the most violent hurricanes to hit the caribbean arc in more than 20 years; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. i urge the european commission to take the necessary measures to support the agriculture of martinique and guadeloupe, and in particular the banana and sugar cane sectors, after the plantations of these fruits have been almost completely destroyed, with very worrying economic, social and human consequences. the new solidarity fund and the strengthened europeaid programme must enter into force as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is an own-initiative report which was suggested by our political group and which, after several months of work, was supported by a very large majority of the committee on the internal market. i can only welcome this very broad support, because if our plenary confirms it, then we will have the opportunity, commissioner, to participate fully, to influence fully the work that the commission is doing to draw up, next autumn, a communication on the internal market strategy for the 21st century. the internal market is the european union's greatest achievement in more than 50 years. it is at the heart of the european project, and now of the lisbon strategy. however, this is a process which is constantly progressing and, above all, it is necessary to adopt a political approach to it - and i think this is the main originality of the report i am presenting to you. in these turbulent times in europe, it is important to understand that the deepening of the internal market will not be possible if it continues to face scepticism and even hostility from a large part of european public opinion, which often considers the internal market and competition policy to be the source of many of the social difficulties faced by our citizens. the aim of any internal market strategy must therefore be to transform this disbelief and hostility into confidence in the internal market, on the one hand, by showing the benefits of the internal market and, on the other hand, by pursuing at the same time the objectives of openness and competition and the objective of social cohesion with its various components: environment, employment, culture, access for vulnerable people. our report has tried to find that balance and i think that the reason why it has received such widespread support is that it has largely succeeded in doing so. this is the main recommendation we wish to make to the european commission: it is impossible to deepen and develop the internal market if our citizens do not support this policy. we have therefore proposed three lines: restoring confidence, reducing burdens and, finally, placing our internal market policy in the international context. that is why we have emphasized everything that has to do with the quality of life of our fellow citizens: the environmental dimension, consumer protection. we have asked for the national parliaments to be more closely involved in our work on this point, to understand better the importance of the internal market. an important amendment which i have put forward and which i think we will have general agreement on is amendment no 12 as amended. with this amendment, on the basis of the decisions of the european council of 21 june on the mandate given to the intergovernmental conference to insert a paragraph on public services in the new amending treaty, we call on the commission to clarify the situation of public services, gis and sgeis because we believe that in a successful internal market, supported by our citizens, the place of these services is very important. we have already seen this when we discussed the directive on the internal market in services. we have also placed a great deal of emphasis on smes and on the vulnerable, particularly the disabled. as regards the development of the right to consume, we find that there is very little crossborder consumption, about 6%, which is of course insufficient. we naturally include energy policy and the fight against global warming in the internal market, as does the opening up of network industries. one of the major - and controversial - proposals is to include an internal market test in any new legislation. that's just what i wanted to say in a nutshell. if we succeed in combining the intrinsic strength of the internal market with the commitment of producers and consumers to this policy, then i believe that this will be a real lever for prosperity, for employment and for the preservation of the european social model at the same time as the economic strength of europe as a player on the world stage.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, it is my duty to present the position of the economic and monetary committee and, for once, if i may say so, with pleasure, the rapporteur whom we had appointed has refused to present this report on his own behalf, because he regretted that the vote of the economic and monetary committee had led to insistence on the fiscal conditions of a harmonious internal market. in short, your committee on economic and monetary affairs considers that for the internal market to function harmoniously, certain initiatives must come from the commission to combat distortions in terms of taxation. i can only support the view of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. there are two other points which i think are important to stress today. the first is the operation of competition policy. recent events have shown us again, if need be, particularly in the field of credit rating agencies, that a single market requires a rigorous competition policy which applies to all market sectors. the other dimension - and the rapporteur has mentioned it - is the international dimension and the capacity of the european union, in the functioning of its internal market, to make it a driving force for standardization at international level. this is even more true today in the area of financial markets and i hope that here too the commission will take the initiative in proposing, at international level, the standardisation we need to make progress in terms of supervision.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the competitiveness of enterprises and the efficiency of the internal market also require appropriate and modern legal statutes for enterprises. a step forward for large companies was taken with the adoption of the regulation on the statute for a european company on 8 october 2001. in 2004, the european commission launched a reflection on a new form of european company, more specifically designed for small and medium-sized enterprises: the european private company. this initiative was very much appreciated by all those who had been waiting for it for thirty years, i say thirty years. the results of the commission's feasibility study on this status were presented in december 2005. it is clear that the vast majority of economic operators interviewed are in favour of such a status for two main reasons: firstly, the introduction of a european status would have the advantage of removing obstacles to the establishment and mobility of smes within the european union. it would also make it possible to create a european label for smes, especially those in the countries which have recently joined the european union. the european private company appears to smes as an effective tool for entering the european market. its adoption would also be an indirect factor in the development and harmonization of national laws, which in turn would promote the development and integration of the european economy. this new statute would respond to the need to simplify and make more effective the legal tools available to businesses. i am convinced that many small and mediumsized enterprises would benefit from such a status, which would of course remain optional. this project of a european private company is strongly supported by the economic circles of almost all the member states. this is of course the case in france and germany. parliament has approved mr lehne's own-initiative report, and i support the conclusions. but right now, nothing is moving. that is why i support the questions to the european commission put by my colleague, mr gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. it is important to know what the underlying problems are which are causing the commission to delay its work in this area.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i am pleased that my colleagues in the conference of group chairmen have accepted my proposal to ask the commission to explain itself to us before any decision is taken on the future of the gdansk shipyards. the competition authority did not need this new case to illustrate its doctrine. it is already so controversial that many observers, although little suspect of anti-liberalism, have themselves long called it dogmatic. in this case, a restructuring plan is considered convincing only if it provides for the laying-off of 1 000 workers. there is no shortage of precedents for companies in difficulty who are thus forced to cut hundreds of jobs or have to repay aid necessary for their survival. in this case, which shipyard is operating without subsidies? i think it is indisputable that conditions should be attached to the granting of subsidies. but the fact that these conditions are always subject to heavy sacrifices for the employees is the problem. in this respect, if mood has rarely been the primary characteristic of the successive commissioners i have known, if social fibre is clearly not part of their attributes, this time the commission's flagship directorate-general has done even more by demonstrating that political issues leave it as indifferent as social problems. by threatening the very existence of this emblematic place in poland, is the commission measuring the political significance of the message it is thus sending to the people of this new member country, barely three years after its accession? this seems to be the least of the concerns of the guardians of free and undistorted competition. in their eyes, there is a time to celebrate the crucial - historic - role, as you said, mr mccreevy, of the workers of the gdansk shipyards in the struggle for freedom, and another to apply to them the iron laws of liberalism. there's still time to stop this irresponsible act. the first step, in my view, is to open substantive discussions with the polish trade unions and even with the european federation of metalworkers. the aim is both to clarify the actual amount of aid received by these yards and, above all, to find a solution to avoid job losses. moreover, this new case, which highlights to the point of absurdity the narrow criteria applied today in the name of combating distortions of competition, strengthens my group's conviction that a substantive, public and pluralistic debate on the aims of the union and their coherence with the policies implemented is absolutely necessary before any final decision on the future european treaty. the history of the gdansk shipyards reminds us that a political structure which is unable to face its own contradictions and overcome them in a positive way is doomed. this lesson is still relevant today and some european leaders would be well advised to reflect on it.
in writing. by voting in favour of the resolution on the natural disasters which occurred this summer, i wanted to express my solidarity with the families of the victims and with the people in the devastated areas. it is also a message of thanks to all those professionals, volunteers and local authorities who participated in the fight against fires and in the rescue of flood victims. i think it is urgent now to put in place extraordinary community aid measures, particularly of a financial nature, to help rehabilitate the regions which have suffered serious damage. it also means restoring the productive potential of the affected areas, focusing on boosting job creation and taking appropriate measures to offset the social costs of the loss of jobs and other sources of income. i remain concerned about the increase in disasters caused by extreme weather events, which experts believe are largely due to climate change and global warming. in this connection, i ask the commission to take initiatives to ensure that the kyoto commitments and their extensions are respected.
in writing. greece is experiencing the worst natural disaster it has ever known at the end of august. the first partial report on the massive fires that have ravaged much of the peloponnese reports 63 dead, over 40,000 head of cattle charred, 250,000 olive trees burned and hundreds of thousands of hectares of forest burned. the three days of national mourning declared by prime minister costas caramanlis will not mask the state's complete negligence in protecting its citizens and coming to the aid of villagers surrounded by flames, in a country where hot summers and fire risks are commonplace. the fact is that we have seen everywhere understaffing, lack of equipment, but also unpreparedness and lack of coordination of operations. this government of new democracy, like the previous ones with pasok, did nothing to prevent the scale and horror of these fires. it is without scruples and for purely political reasons that the prime minister announced, even as gunfire was raging all over greece, the holding of early general elections. in support of the grieving greek people, victims of their political class, let us express the wish that in the future responsible governments will succeed irresponsible governments.
in writing. the catastrophic storm of december 1999, the 2002 floods in central europe, the 2004 fires in portugal and spain, and now the deadly fires in greece, as well as in romania and bulgaria: each time the emotion is strong, each time europe shows compassion, each time the commission promises to strengthen its solidarity and aid mechanisms. it is here, on 18 january 2000, that i called for the establishment of a euro-civil security corps, an idea which was taken up by commissioner barnier in his report of may 2006. we have been asking in vain in this house for the renewal of the 1992 regulation which allowed for the financing of fire prevention equipment: firewalls, access roads, monitoring systems... today, let us not wait for the next disaster, let us not wait for new victims: let us put the barnier proposal into effect. there is a military eurocorps. how can we imagine that europe could not have a euro-civil security corps to protect its people from natural and accidental risks? then we should demand forest fire prevention plans from the member states and help them, encourage them to finance them through a specific financing instrument of the same kind as the former 1992 regulation. in the face of climate change, it is in the interest of the whole of europe to put in place ambitious prevention policies!
in writing. i voted against the report on the review of the single market: tackling barriers and inefficiency through better implementation and enforcement. i disagree with the rapporteur, mr toubon, who says that there are no limits to competition in the single market and that there are no social regulations. i therefore voted against the further liberalization of the postal service advocated in the report and regret that the amendments on social and fiscal harmonization were rejected. on the other hand, i denounce the new reference to the implementation of a transatlantic internal market without barriers and i stress the priority of safeguarding and promoting the european social model. in my view, the completion of the internal market must be regulated by guarantees of social protection for european citizens, which is not what the toubon report, the only contribution of the european parliament to the revision of the single market, proposes.
in writing. the french socialists voted in favour of the toubon report on the review of the single market and its adaptation to the 21st century, because it recalls important elements, sometimes set aside when discussing the completion of the internal market. thus, social and territorial cohesion and modern services of general interest go hand in hand with the completion of the internal market; we have nevertheless voted against paragraph 24 which deals with the liberalization of postal services. the report also stresses the need to guarantee consumer protection, which is closely linked to the completion of the european internal market. finally, the environmental dimension must be integrated into the requirements of the internal market, which is an asset for the european union provided that these main principles are respected. an important point in the report is the focus on smes and facilitating their access to the single european market because of their essential role and that of the craft sector in employment and innovation in europe. i particularly support the rapporteur's desire to fight actively and effectively against counterfeiting, which is a real scourge for the european economy.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the use of the stress-flow method by industry and commerce, with the ultimate goal, to sum up, of maximum immediate profit, means that dangerous materials are less and less in secure warehouses and factories and more and more on roads, rivers, railways and oceans. for too many years the european commission has been working to deregulate the transport sector to the benefit of private interests and to the detriment of the public interest. this is so true that when some people try to address the question of the safety of citizens, the commission immediately takes refuge behind the principle of subsidiarity. as usual, the european commission boasts of working closely with employers, forgetting, as usual, the employees who could have taught it many things, in particular on the all-round deregulation of the transport sector, social dumping, the refusal to legislate in a binding way on the working conditions and training of road workers. there is a strong fear that a major disaster involving the transport of dangerous goods will occur in the coming years. then those who made the decisions will be held accountable! however, simple and effective measures could be voted by this parliament: the classification of road parking lots and railway sorting stations through which dangerous goods pass as seveso sites; to require the real-time geolocation traceability of all hazardous materials to avoid the coexistence of incompatible products in the same place; training the staff concerned in the necessary safety procedures and measures. but to most, what a waste! well, assume, but don't count on us to be your accomplices!
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on the very technical questions of the transport of dangerous goods, which account for almost 10% of goods across europe. i am of course glad that this text not only aims to dust off a regulation which affects the safety of europeans, but also that it is extended to the transport of goods by waterways, because this is a mode of transport which should be developed throughout europe - as many of us think - as one of the alternative modes of transport to road. it also raises very high expectations on the part of european citizens. it is a step forward in simplifying legislation in terms of administrative procedures for both the consignor and the consignee, but it is also a necessary step in training those involved in the safety of dangerous goods. although we still need to clarify our position on certain points raised in the amendments, this text represents an undeniable advance in terms of readability and above all in terms of security.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank once again mr liberadzki and the committee on transport and tourism for their excellent work, which will hopefully enable us, together with you, to adopt the proposal at first reading. it is in the interests of achieving this first reading that we are happy to accept amendments which reflect the compromise negotiated between the institutions, but we do not consider desirable amendments which would jeopardize the agreement at first reading. what is true, and everyone has stressed this, is that this text will make it possible to simplify the legislation, to make it more easily applicable and, subsequently, to extend it to waterways. i would like to remind you of my concern, together with parliament, to develop the waterway networks to a large extent, which can be a means for europe to achieve the modal shift to which we aspire. that's what i wanted to make clear. once again, i thank parliament and its rapporteur for the very good work they have done on this text, also thanks to the expertise of the experts. i think i can say that this text has been the subject of an absolutely exemplary consultation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
, in writing. the increasing number of dangerous goods being transported has made it necessary to introduce legislation at european level to simplify and unify the rules applicable to the transport of this type of goods. it is our responsibility to ensure the safety of europeans and this also applies to the transport of dangerous goods. that is why i think it is important that the member states should be able to impose the use of compulsory routes, if necessary, in a proportionate and transparent manner. they must also be able to oblige the carrier to use one mode of transport rather than another if they feel that this will better ensure the safety of their citizens.
the agenda calls for the report by inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the logistics of freight transport in europe, the key to sustainable mobility (2006/2228 (ini)) (a6-0286/2007).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would first like to thank inés ayala sender for her initiative. i believe, commissioner, that we have not become accustomed to talking about logistics, either at european level or in the member states. we often have a road policy, a rail policy, an air policy, a maritime policy, and in some countries we have great difficulty in bringing them together. logistics is nothing more or less than ensuring that there is no excessive load shedding between these different modes of transport and that they are used optimally where they are most efficient and where they bring the greatest added value. in this respect, i believe that the work that has been undertaken by inés ayala has a bright future and we naturally await your communication. i would also like to say what the committee on industry has said: i think that the reports on the environmental aspects of the subject are not given enough attention. it is clear that we must develop logistics in europe, that transport policy is an accessory to the internal market and its development, but we cannot, on the one hand, have great resolutions on the reduction of greenhouse gases and, on the other, have excessive budgets. in this connection, i am concerned that the 60-tonne lorries are being mentioned in all reports. in a previous report, modestly speaking, the european modular concept was mentioned. in some reports, we talk about mega trucks, mega-trucks, with the road lobby theory: the bigger the trucks, the less they consume and, therefore, the more we will save. this theory is wrong. the bigger the lorries, the more competitive they are against rail and waterways and the more your policy on rail, waterways and motorways of the sea will be disastrous, commissioner. it won't even be worth talking about anymore. there will still be that many trucks, but the one thing that is certain is that there will be a lot more cargo on the roads and we will have failed.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs ayala sender for the excellent work which has resulted in an own-initiative report on the logistics of freight transport in europe, which is a very real subject for our fellow citizens, and which has been discussed many times in this parliament. since we have to do this quickly, two main ideas. the first is that it is more essential than ever to take account of logistics issues in our overall freight transport strategy, but above all to do so by taking account of urban logistics and the logistics problems in cities. secondly, and i am speaking as a member of the committee on budgets, the union's investments must not omit the financing of logistical infrastructure. you are well aware of our disappointment with the amounts of funding allocated to the ten-t and i am counting on your support, commissioner, to make a greater effort by the member states - in any case, to ensure that you succeed in convincing them - when the financial perspectives are renegotiated. finally, like many other members tonight, i would like to stress the position expressed on the circulation in europe of lorries over 60 tonnes, the giant lorries, which do not meet european objectives either in terms of safety or in terms of environmental protection and sustainable development, as many members have very well emphasized.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for joining your rapporteur in stressing the importance of logistics, not only from an economic point of view but also from an environmental and social point of view. i think there is a consensus that this logistics must be improved, made more efficient and more environmentally friendly. the report by mrs ayala sender makes this clear and i welcome it. in the action plan for logistics which will be published by the end of october, you will find a number of the wishes you have expressed, which i have read with great attention this afternoon. mr president, as i do not have much time to answer in detail, i will simply refer to the regulations on the dimensions of lorries. this is probably one of the most controversial issues, and we will not be able to discuss it exhaustively today. i'll just make a few comments. it is a fact that most goods are transported by road today, although we want a much more significant modal shift in the coming years. any measures to improve the efficiency of this mode of transport and to reduce its environmental impact should be analysed. this analysis must also cover the regulations on the dimensions of trucks, directive 96/53. i believe that any change must be considered very carefully because the implications can be complex. the consequences of larger or heavier lorries for infrastructure, safety, the environment, the economy of shippers and hauliers, and intermodal competition should be considered. i would like to say again that i hope we will take these matters very seriously, and that is why my services are going to launch a study to evaluate the experiments that have taken place. the results of this study will then enable us, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss together all the nuances of this very important question which should not be treated lightly. that is my first point and i shall conclude very quickly, mr president, too quickly if i please, but i respect the timetable of parliament. the second major issue that also commands the logistical effort is infrastructure. the question of financing infrastructure was raised. i would like to mention the new marco polo ii programme, which will enable us to finance logistical solutions for modal shifting or traffic reduction. finally, there is the training of the men. mr rack, who was the last speaker, spoke well of a new culture that must be developed. this is what it is all about and it is always about the women and men who are in charge of this transport activity and who also have to master a whole series of new disciplines to really make transport more efficient and mobility more sustainable, that is to say more suitable for our environmental problems. i am very grateful to parliament and will take this report and the debate it has given rise to very seriously.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday.
the agenda calls for the oral question to the commission on the creation of functional airspace blocks for the establishment of the single european sky (com (2007) 0101 final) by paolo costa, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-0035/2007 - b6-0135/2007).
author. mr president, first of all we must give back to caesar what is his, or to another italian, namely paolo costa, who is in fact the true author of this written question and who asked me to be kind enough to take his place in his absence and to put it before you. this is an oral question with debate to the commission on the state of play of the creation of functional airspace blocks for the establishment of the single european sky, in other words, on the commission's intentions with regard to the implementation, or the state of progress in the implementation as it can be seen today, of the package of texts which had resulted in a conciliation in december 2003 and which was called the 'single sky package'. one of these texts provided for the rearrangement of functional space blocks, i.e. the routes of airliners to the different floors of airspace, in order to optimise consumption, reduce greenhouse gases and, if possible, reduce congestion at the busiest airports, not to mention the possibility of reducing the cost of air transport. the issue is particularly sensitive, with reluctance on the part of the member states, which have always reaffirmed their sovereignty over their airspace. this is particularly the case in the member states - and i know one of them, the one i come from, is very dear to me - which have a large military force and military space blocks reserved almost at their discretion. the concern of paolo costa is that this text - one of the four on the single sky - on the rearrangement of space blocks has apparently not advanced as feared, and that it has been the subject of very strong resistance from the member states. the question that mr paolo costa is asking the commission is therefore as follows. a communication has just been produced by the commission which clearly acknowledges that the cost of the absence of functional airspace blocks for the establishment of the single european sky is about eur 1 billion. the first question is whether the commission can accept this and whether it considers that the implementation of regulation (ec) no 551/2004 on the organisation of the airspace is proceeding satisfactorily. how does the commission explain the fact that no new functional airspace blocks have become operational since the entry into force of this regulation? article 10 of this regulation provides for the extension of airspace organisation to lower airspace and asks the commission to provide for any other appropriate measures 'in the light of progress made'. on this basis, what changes does the commission consider appropriate to the current legislation? finally, would the commission agree not to wait until the end of 2008 to propose a proposal to this effect? last question by paolo costa there are several questions in one: does the commission agree with the failure of the bottom-up approach which left it to the member states to create functional airspace blocks among themselves and does it not think that it is now necessary to adopt a more proactive approach on the part of the european union? i believe that this is the question that mr costa is asking the european commission, without betraying the spirit of the question.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tonight, as in the report by our colleague mr foglietta, many figures have been quoted. what i would like to stress is that behind the coldness of the statistics there is first and foremost human suffering. i myself was for years the president of a psychiatric hospital. a large proportion of the patients we had to treat were alcohol dependent. paragraph 26 of the report by our colleague, the commissioner, states that we must know the causes. we didn't talk about it enough tonight. if we want to have good answers about what to do with young people, with the elderly, with men, with women, we need to know the causes. therefore, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the actions that are to be carried out, i call on you to ensure that there is a better analysis at the level of each member state, at the level of the european union as a whole, in order to know the causes that lead these young people to feel the need to consume alcohol excessively. so why do older people who are isolated at home drink excessively? why do men drink too much at work? until we have uncovered the real causes of this overconsumption, we will not be able to provide any good answers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate mrs jeggle on her excellent work. i support in particular his opposition to the abolition of aid for private storage of cream and skimmed milk powder and his desire to introduce a single rate of aid for milk distributed in schools. i would like to mention, however, as some of my colleagues have done, the current shortage of milk, which is due to an increase in world demand but also to a decline in supply which could have been anticipated because, in my opinion, it was foreseeable. as a result of the cap reform and the lower price paid to milk producers, some farmers, as in france, have disposed of part of their dairy cows in favour of beef or, as in germany, have completely abandoned beef for cereals. france is short of 100 000 dairy cows to meet its quota and the european union would need 1 000 million litres of milk to meet european demand. this shortage has already had and will have a significant impact on the prices of milk and, therefore, milk products, as well as on the prices of many other food products. these increases will be in addition to the price increases for other basic foodstuffs such as cereals or meat due to the increase in feed prices. all this will of course create additional difficulties for consumers. i therefore believe that it is necessary to put in place price stabilization instruments. this would include, as soon as possible, the replenishment of new stocks to secure the market; increase the price of milk paid to producers to encourage them to maintain and increase their production and to help them cope with the increase in feed prices; to better regulate marketing and distribution channels; to increase european milk production quotas as quickly as possible; to assess the milk cmo during the cap health check in 2008, in the light of the current shortage and before considering any abolition of milk quotas in 2015. i would like to conclude by mentioning the even more difficult situation of the milk producers in the mountain areas, the producers whom i represent, whose production costs are higher and whose supply is more difficult. moreover, in some countries, such as france, they face a reduction in the collection aid which compensated for part of the extra cost of collecting in mountain areas. milk production is one of the sectors which best contributes to the maintenance of spaces and to land use planning, especially in difficult areas. i hope therefore that the specific features of mountain areas will be taken into account in future debates on the health check and the new cap.
president. - mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against terrorism is an area in which europe must move from the virtual to the real. the global dimension of terrorism calls for a global response. political europe depends on its ability to eradicate the scourge of terrorism; but we're still far from it. our group has taken the initiative of this debate because we are convinced that europe has not yet fully appreciated the dangers that lie ahead. the first very immediate threat to our daily security is posed by islamist and other terrorist groups, such as eta in spain. and we see it every day, commissioner. the second, equally worrying, threat is that these powerful networks are hijacking the political culture of european democracies to undermine our core values and to promote their religious tenets. we must ensure that our states cooperate more closely in the fight against international terrorism. the resignation last march of the european coordinator for counter-terrorism, mr de vries, without his replacement, shows the amount of work that remains to be done. mr de vries resigned for personal reasons, but everyone knows that the inadequacy of the resources at his disposal did not allow him to complete the heavy task he was entrusted with. we call on the council, which is absent, on its president, and also on the high representative for cfsp, mr solana, and on the president of the commission, mr barroso, to take up their responsibilities and appoint as soon as possible a new european counter-terrorist man or woman with the appropriate means. the fight against terrorist organizations, ladies and gentlemen, requires the utmost firmness and must not be based on negotiations or concessions. terrorist organizations are not centralized formations of the classical type that could be defeated by conventional military operations. they operate in networks and use the most sophisticated technology to carry out their criminal operations. only by persisting in pooling significant resources in intelligence, finance and manpower will we have a chance of neutralising these networks. by respecting ourselves, by guaranteeing the implementation of laws and public freedoms, by reaffirming our conception of man and of life in society, by acting together, we will defeat a terrorism which, while using the means of the 21st century, is inspired by prejudice and uses methods from the worst hours of humanity. it is not, as is often said, a clash of civilizations, but a clash between those who place respect for human beings and pluralism above all else and those who, in the name of jihad, seek to eliminate all those who do not think as they do or who have different beliefs. the victims of the 11 september attacks, whom we will be honouring in a few days' time, five years after the tragic events in manhattan, as well as those of the 11 march attacks in madrid and the london bombings, call for decisive action. europeans need security, security in their working lives, security in their energy supply and food security. the least we can do for europe, after having secured peace, is to do everything possible to guarantee the most basic security, that of the people.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, many european instruments to combat terrorism have been put in place by the member states. however, several european countries continue to face a significant terrorist threat and it is therefore appropriate, after a few years of practice, to assess the effectiveness of the implementation of european legislation in this area. thus, despite measures to promote information sharing between national authorities responsible for counter-terrorism, it is clear that greater mutual trust is needed. in order to make the fight against terrorism really effective, it is not necessary to add to existing legislation, but it is necessary to ensure that member states apply it correctly. i think we must in particular focus on a real improvement in cooperation between member states. the evaluation will also allow us to revise the regulations concerned. i therefore believe that in this process we must strike a balance between the need for security for our citizens and the safeguarding of their right to privacy. the commission has already taken a number of measures which are very restrictive on our citizens, and we can now see in retrospect that many of them have not had the desired results and can, on the contrary, give a false impression of security. the fight against terrorism also requires the european union to strengthen its cooperation with its partners in the world. in the context of our transatlantic relations, for example, we must insist on defining a common strategy to combat terrorism, with respect for fundamental rights and privacy. the european union must take a comprehensive approach to these issues, in order to establish general principles for the exchange of information with our american partners and the protection of data in the context of such exchanges. finally, the european parliament has often been kept out of the council's debates on terrorism. it seems to me now important to have a real debate which allows for better democratic control by the european parliament and by the national parliaments.
mr president, i am certainly not opposed to the litany of good feelings, incantations and wishes that dominate this debate, but i do not see in them the kind of retreat that i think is necessary to understand a phenomenon that is taking our minds by storm. so abrupt, in fact, that we do not bother to determine the ins and outs, the causes and consequences. but, ladies and gentlemen, what is politics if not the patient determination of the causes and consequences of immediate phenomena? scary video surveillance systems are being installed everywhere, in public places and even on the streets. why would you do that? fight against terrorism! we're screwing the citizens, we're expanding police services and sometimes secret police. why would you do that? fight against terrorism! we're restoring the torture. why would you do that? fight against terrorism! laws are being changed and increasingly flouted, even the basic rights of the men who supposedly replaced our old bibles. why would you do that? fight against terrorism! the missile shields are being installed everywhere, even in countries like the czech republic, much to the chagrin of its people, who are not at all familiar with terrorism, all in the name of fighting terrorism. in short, we are dividing nations, creating mistrust between peoples and, above all, regimenting them, as is the case with our european nations, unfortunately, in both east and west. why would you do that? fight against terrorism! let us acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not terrorism that is on our minds, but the fight against terrorism. it's a subtle veil that blinds our eyes without us even noticing. i do not deny that the attacks on our countries, spain and britain, were heinous. but precisely these examples are telling because terrorism has affected these countries because they had supported a war operation: the invasion of a sovereign country. i am not afraid to say that what has happened in iraq is not so much a response to terrorism as another form of centuries-old and barbaric terrorism which has increased international tension. in truth, terrorism itself is the consequence of a deeply unbalanced world, dominated by an empire which, like all the world's empires, denies borders and denies people, tending to create everywhere a one-dimensional, uniform world, obsessively striving towards the single value of the commodity. a world so stifling and so violent for the uniqueness of peoples that the only answer is another violence, of course equally unacceptable: terror. so let's have the courage to ask ourselves! and if terrorism was not also, was not first of all the consequence of this new categorical imperative imposed by the law of the market and included in its logic: the abolition of frontiers. the abolition of frontiers, the trend of cross-borderism, not only abolishes the diversity of the world and provokes the anger of those who are responsible for it, but also encourages the activities of gangs. is this not, ladies and gentlemen, a point of reflection to be made in the debate on the fight against terrorism?
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague paulo casaca's report because it clearly highlights the perverse effects of the current system which sometimes leads to decisions being taken out of touch with local realities. i take the case of tuna fishing in the mediterranean for example. the fishermen have made efforts to improve their fishing methods, but recent legislation imposes disproportionate restrictions on them, which could lead to their extinction. they are facing unfair competition from their colleagues in the eastern atlantic, whether spanish or french. in line with the report's proposals, a geographical area approach and taking account of the specificities of the techniques used would have ensured a more equitable distribution of fishing effort, which would have ensured a sustainable balance between fishing capacity and opportunities.
in writing. once is not always enough: the commission's proposal to harmonise the rules for the transport of dangerous goods is a step in the right direction. the text proposed to us is intended to simplify and unify existing community legislation. at present, no less than four directives and numerous commission decisions govern the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterway. this disparate set of rules makes them too complex, difficult to transpose into national legislation and often obsolete. the subject is particularly important because the volume of internal transport in the european union is constantly increasing. the number of dangerous goods is also increasing. almost 110 billion tonne-km/year of these goods are transported in the union each year, or 8% of all goods transported. france, with its strategic position at the crossroads of europe, regularly sees its road, rail and river networks congested and therefore particularly prone to transport accidents. it is high time that all the peripheral and superfluous european legislation on this subject was abolished in order to enable the various operators but also the national authorities to ensure and fully strengthen the safety of this type of transport.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague inès ayala-sender in response to the commission communication on freight transport logistics in europe and sustainable mobility. we will look forward to the commission's report on an action plan for freight transport logistics in autumn 2007. however, in the logistics sector, there is an urgent need to launch the debate on an ambitious european spatial planning policy, based in particular on the financing of infrastructure (highways, rail network, airports, ports, new technology, satellites, etc.) by relying on the leverage effects of debt, for example, with greater use of the european investment bank (eib), which could open up nearly eur 1 000 billion of investment opportunities over 10 years, public/private partnerships (ppp), etc. an ambitious european spatial planning policy, based on massive investment, will be one of the conditions necessary to enable logisticians to do their job well at the best cost and with respect for the environment.
in writing. while i welcome the adoption of the inès ayala sender own-initiative report on logistics, which stresses the importance of intermodality for cleaner and more sustainable transport, i can only regret the adoption of paragraph 21, which i had already voted against in the committee on transport. i voted against this paragraph because the 60-tonne lorries, to which this paragraph has just opened the door, are dangerous for the environment and for the users of our roads, which are not designed to carry such loads. the arguments of the road lobby are fallacious: the loading capacity of the current heavy goods vehicles is already underused, so the reduction of polluting gas emissions that we are told about in the theme "less vehicles for more goods transported" is a deception. the impact of these giants on our infrastructure will ultimately fall on the shoulders of the taxpayers, blowing up the road repair budgets. finally, as regards road safety, in addition to the risks posed by the deterioration of the infrastructure, the very size of these road monsters represents a danger for all other road users.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution proposed by the committee on employment and social affairs, in which it states that the european network of employment services (eures) should become an important communication platform on the european labour market and a one-stop shop for developing the geographical and occupational mobility of workers. this should specifically aim at removing employment-related social security barriers and raising awareness among workers of their individual rights. geographic labour mobility is a crucial instrument for the success of the revised lisbon strategy and, more generally, for the smooth functioning of the internal market on the basis of the social market economy. this is an important issue for the implementation of flexibility and job security, i.e. to allow greater flexibility in the management of human resources while respecting the necessary occupational security expected by our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the eures activity report 2004-2005 on the contribution of eures to an integrated european labour market. i consider geographical and occupational mobility to be a crucial instrument for the success of the revised lisbon strategy. in this respect, i believe that the european commission should continue to encourage the geographical and occupational mobility of workers through the increase of the appropriations in the 2007 budget line to support projects in the field of transnational recruitment and cross-border partnerships.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague alessandro foglietta on a european union strategy to help member states reduce alcohol-related harm. the commission was right to present a communication on the dangerous and harmful consumption of alcohol and its harmful consequences for health. i support the recommendations, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, for ambitious general targets for member states to reduce the harmful and dangerous consumption of alcohol, particularly for vulnerable social groups such as children, young people and pregnant women. i am glad that the members of parliament, in their wisdom, recognise that the consumption of alcoholic products can be considered as an aspect of the european cultural heritage and way of life and that a low consumption of alcohol (10 g/day) can, under certain conditions, contribute to the prevention of certain diseases.
in writing. i think that the problems associated with alcohol abuse are growing alarmingly in all the member states of the european union. beyond the social and traditional consumption of alcohol, which varies from one region and state to another, it should be remembered that regular and unmoderate consumption of alcohol is harmful to health and has serious direct consequences: road accidents, antisocial behaviour. therefore, there is an urgent need to empower producers and distributors of alcohol, to seek the support of operators in the sector, to involve schools and families, to launch a message that is an example for young people and to raise awareness among the most vulnerable people about the risks of alcohol consumption.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes a number of concrete proposals for the prevention of alcohol abuse among the most vulnerable groups such as young people and pregnant women. the report does not demonize the moderate consumption of wine (except in the case of pregnant women), which is part of our culture and traditions, but it does tackle alcohol abuse. i also welcome the proposed measures to increase the awareness of pregnant women about the risks of drinking alcohol during pregnancy. even small amounts of alcohol can harm a fetus. facial abnormalities, microcephaly, neurological disorders with agitation, behavioural disorders, cognitive disorders or even mental retardation are the risks faced by the child. i am satisfied with the proposal to provide appropriate communication to pregnant women through the medical profession.
in writing. it is good to legislate on milk, on its distribution in schools, the army or the creation of a new category, but the dairy sector is something else. in the 1980s the brussels commission explained to us that there were oceans of milk and mountains of butter. so, as with cereals, we have introduced the 'bureaucratic-malthusian' policy. the french minister of agriculture, michel rocard, was the driving force behind the introduction of milk quotas. that is rationing, the voluntary manufacture of scarcity. for the first time in human history, people are refusing to produce, people are refusing the riches that nature naturally offers. worse, to be sure to organize the march to scarcity, we went as far as the mad herod premium cattle slaughter. what was meant to happen happened. the production constraints have limited the production. from the oceans of milk we have passed to the milky aral sea. there's no more butter. prices are going up. the shortage was organized as for wheat.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis calls for me to stress three points. first, it comes from a crisis of poverty of the north american national agents. it must be understood that all the american agents are in a situation of very serious deficit, which is expressed in what is called the american double deficit. we had this crisis, we will have others, either from big american companies, or from american states, or perhaps even from the federal government. in the coming years, we must expect very serious crises from the united states, and other very serious crises. secondly, this crisis happened in march in the united states. it spread around the world through hedge funds, the first two of which went bankrupt in june. it only affected european banks in late july, early august. we had time to take stock of the blast. mrs merkel, our current president at the time of the g8, had called for action to be taken on the hedge funds and she was not listened to. worse, the netherlands is developing a policy of liberalizing the establishment of hedge funds in the country. the european union, while advocating against hedge funds, encourages the development of such funds on its own territory. this is a real failure of the european union's attempts to impose on itself supervisory measures and prudential rules. as a former rapporteur on prudential rules and the supervision of financial conglomerates, i see it as a personal failure. i would remind you that we needed more than one legislature to write the simplified prospectus for the issue of securities in europe. and today, one bank is not able to read the complex prospectus that another bank publishes about the contents of the funds they put up for sale. thirdly, i have been telling the central bank for years that the monetary system cannot be regulated by measures aimed at the credit rate alone. i think the crisis in europe was precipitated by the increase in the central bank lending rate at the end of the last quarter. i think it is not enough to say: you must lower the rate by 0.5% or keep it at the same rate or raise it by 0.5%. we have a real problem to solve, which is to put in place a selective credit policy so that the credit rate is set at 0% for the necessary investments of the type of combating climate change and much more expensive for loans geared to speculation.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, let us be realistic: as a powerful european legislator, we can do nothing to cause this crisis. we cannot stand up to american legislation which ignores consumer protection in the distribution of mortgage loans, whether by banks or by non-banks. let us be realistic: we are facing a crisis which requires not only immediate corrective action but also long-term learning. let us be clear: our european citizens are rightly concerned about the consequences of this crisis for the financing of the real economy. let us be clear: our fellow citizens do not understand that, in order to cope with the risk-taking by a few whose way of remuneration is not economically logical, public institutions such as the central bank are ultimately obliged to intervene to ensure the liquidity of the market. let's live up to the challenge. let us be where the europeans should be, in realism and in the proposal. the central bank has finally played its role as lender of last resort. however, as a supervisory body, it is powerless to know the reality of the risks taken by market players. we need to improve the supervisory capacity of the european authorities and it is up to you, commissioner, to be active in this area too. let us be honest: what we have been saying for many years about fair value has now worsened the conditions for the valuation of subprime loans. let us be realistic: in the field of rating agencies, the iosco code of conduct, commissioner, does not meet the requirements of the present situation. we need a truly competitive market, free of conflicts of interest and characterized by greater transparency. let us finally be utopian and hope that the use of the financial bubble thus created can finally make it possible to finance the long-term investments that europe needs to meet the climate and energy challenge. sometimes utopia might be the best realism.
mr president, this crisis is the third major crisis in ten years. could it have been avoided? mr. mccreevy said yes. this would require teaching the poor not to borrow money when they are not creditworthy. what is the reality? the american subprime mortgage companies are the main actors and the main culprits in this crisis. and to increase their income, they turned to households in dire financial straits. in 2006, half of the appropriations were granted without income verification. these organizations have made money on loans that should never have been made. they were backed by their banks; however, they are controlled by their board of directors, auditors and regulatory authorities. this has not stopped banks from lending money to credit institutions, or from selling their customers risky but lucrative financial products backed by these mortgages. these securities, backed by the subprime market, have been bought up massively by hedge funds, most of them domiciled in tax havens, which are not subject to any regulation. the whole chain of control and surveillance has therefore failed. my question is simple. what serious initiatives will the commission take now to prevent the financial market turmoil in the us housing market from turning tomorrow to new assets and producing the same results: a stock market crash and then a loss of growth?
for the greens/efa group madam president, i think that mrs valenciano has shown this very well in her excellent report, which is full of concrete proposals which will certainly be very useful to the portuguese presidency, since it has shown its ambition to achieve tangible results in the field of human rights and democracy. we have therefore been advocating for a long time, together with the commission and the council, greater consistency, transparency and results in our discussions with third countries. the only thing left to do is to move from advocacy to action. i am sure that you know as well as i do what needs to be systematised to make human rights dialogues more effective, despite their diversity. first, to set clear and public objectives for each dialogue in order to achieve a coherent and shared strategy, undertaken at the highest level. secondly, develop indicators to enable a concrete assessment of the results achieved through dialogue and communicate them to parliamentarians so that they can, for example, during a delegation to the country, ensure progress, discuss it with civil society and human rights defenders to better inform partners about the commitments made in the framework of the dialogue. in this connection, we are still awaiting the communication of indicators which should be used to evaluate the newly established dialogue with uzbekistan. thirdly, to ensure that human rights are taken into account in all the union's external policies, including trade policy, migration policy and counter-terrorism policy. it is our credibility in speaking about human rights that is at stake here. explain to me, for example, how the implementation of the guidelines against torture is being discussed today in the subcommittee on human rights with jordan, the first subcommittee set up under the neighbourhood policy, which is now being used as a model, when we know that european states have covered up the cia's subcontracting of torture. how do we discuss torture and the fight against it in this subcommittee? our first job as parliamentarians is to assess the relevance of eu action and to do this you can count on the delegations, the committees and the whole parliament to continue to fight for its implementation at all stages, whether it is to initiate, redirect or, if necessary, interrupt a dialogue.
madam president, at this late hour a lot has been said, but i would of course like to congratulate mrs elena valenciano on this report. it marks an important step towards making european development policy more transparent and effective in terms of human rights. i would also like to take this opportunity to call on the council and commission representatives to improve interinstitutional cooperation. it is essential to establish a dialogue between the council, the commission and parliament in order to coordinate human rights activities better and to prevent contradictions and duplication from parasitizing the message to the outside world. unfortunately, this is a constantly updated issue. if we take a concrete example, that of burma, our policy on that country is illegible to the outside world. the members of the union have committed themselves to a common position in favour of national reconciliation, democracy and human rights, but in practice the european states are divided, which results in a weak and ineffective position which has no effect on the burmese regime. politically, the european union has no clear strategy. we are only focusing on humanitarian aid, which is essential, of course, but not enough. we have taken no position on how the un security council should deal with the situation in burma, offering no support for a resolution. in addition, the commission has reduced the volume of its grants for projects promoting human rights and democracy in burma. in short, the european union has not been able to use its influence in a positive and effective way to promote and support democracy and human rights in that country. the recent failure of our appeal for the release of the burmese nobel prize winner aung san suu kyi is proof of this. and yet, parliament awarded him the sakharov prize in 1990. this example illustrates perfectly the fact that our three institutions must work together to present a coherent and legible policy for the defence of human rights.
on behalf of the its group. madam president, commissioner, the reports by our two colleagues, including that by mrs carmen fraga, deal with the insoluble problem of fisheries, because the fishery resources are limited and the demand is constantly increasing. therefore, fisheries policy is not the cap. in the cap, since 1968 and sicco mansholt, the commission has been pursuing for 40 years a strategic error, which is a crime against humanity: the community needs cereals and milk and there is a shortage of these, as the price increases prove. in fisheries policy it is different. the commission's mistakes are merely its usual technocratic sin, not its strategic crime. the management of the resource with tacs, quotas, fifg, pops has failed. the commission has legislated on everything: nets, tonnage, fleet power, number of units and finally - as the rapporteur tells us - there are fewer fishermen, there is less cod, there is even less bluefin tuna in the mediterranean, hence the anger of fishermen in the months of june and july. in my own country, for example, in the port of sète or grau-du-roi, the tuna fishermen, who fish with traditional small-net fishing, a coastal fishing, were protesting against being able to fish from july onwards. however, despite all these checks, all these demolitions, all these sanctions - perhaps one day we will even put an electronic bracelet on the fisherman to monitor him - the stocks are in danger, the rapporteur tells us. the common fisheries policy has not worked and why? because the problem is global: china, indonesia, the philippines, peru are fishing. as with wine, which we pluck when the world is planting, we break the boats when the united states increases them or russia, iceland, norway increase the power of their boats. we can invent indicators, a kind of maximum sustainable yield, but if the neighbour fishes more, then fishing less does not improve the state of the stocks. and since livestock farming, i.e. aquaculture, is also not a real solution because of the fish meal, fisheries is the perfect example of how the community level is both too high when fishing is coastal and that the decision must be local, or too low when fishing is offshore. in that case, either we'll go global very quickly with the help of scientists, or by the end of the 21st century, we'll go to the movies and fish for the last of the nemo's.
the rapporteur. madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs kuneva for the quality of our exchanges. why this green paper and this report from our parliament? three factors justify this exercise to bring the european regulatory framework for consumer protection into line and modernise it, namely eight directives adopted between 1985 and 1999. firstly, the rapid development of new marketing techniques, in particular electronic commerce, has made european legislation partly obsolete. secondly, there are many inconsistencies in the current acquis, which contains different legal definitions for identical concepts. thirdly, the choice made in the past to opt for minimum harmonisation allowing member states to retain specific national provisions has maintained a fragmentation of the legal environment, so that the existing rules set a minimum european threshold but do not define a single rule of the game. the result, according to the september 2006 eurobarometer, is that 50% of citizens are more wary of cross-border purchases and 71% think it will be more difficult to assert their rights when buying from a professional based in another member state. similarly, economic operators have an interest in a secure regulatory environment and in taking full advantage of an internal market of almost 500 million consumers. one of the challenges of this revision is to take a qualitative step forward, in a sense laying the foundations for a european consumer code. what method? the european parliament fully endorses the methodology proposed by the commission, namely a mixed or combined approach, which is based on the definition of a horizontal instrument of maximum harmonisation incorporating the same legal concepts in common factor across the current directives and which, on the other hand, provides for the revision, if necessary, of some of the sectoral directives which will remain of minimum harmonisation. the horizontal instrument must be designed to bring together the basic rights of the european consumer. first, it will contain a single definition of the consumer. parliament proposes that this should be any natural person acting for purposes outside his professional activity, whereas a professional will be defined as any natural or legal person acting in the course of his professional activity. why such a restrictive definition of consumer, you ask? well, for the sake of it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is protected in the community. secondly, the horizontal instrument will guarantee the right of withdrawal granted to consumers in the event of an online or home purchase. the rules for calculating the withdrawal period will be harmonised, since the withdrawal period is currently a minimum of seven days for distance purchases, for example, but in some countries, such as germany and finland, a 14-day period has been granted. the procedures for exercising this right will also be harmonised. thirdly, the horizontal instrument will clarify what is meant by 'abusive clauses' in business-consumer contracts. there will be a blacklist of clauses which are still prohibited, a grey list of clauses which are alleged to be abusive, and a list of other clauses which the consumer can prove to be abusive through the courts. fourth, the duration of the two-year legal guarantee will be extended by the period of the property being immobilized for repair. fifthly, the right to compensation will be reaffirmed and its modalities specified, and above all, the horizontal instrument will be scalable. specific legal questions will continue to be dealt with in so-called sectoral directives and will remain mostly of minimum harmonisation, with a mutual recognition clause, we believe, the mechanism of which will have to be defined and which should make it possible to arbitrate any conflicts of laws. finally, my report stresses that without information and without the possibility of exercising these remedies, consumers have only virtual rights. the effective enforcement of their rights requires national and european information campaigns, a strengthening of the visibility and role of european consumer centres and the facilitation of judicial and extrajudicial redress. finally, parliament recalls the debate on group actions. as rapporteur, i believe that class action, as a specific means of resolving mass litigation, is an important avenue to explore. i call on the commission to present specific legal studies and proposals in the coming months, but i am making it clear that european class actions will be different from american class actions, whose very proactive philosophy of aggressive consumer approach by unscrupulous lawyers and the modalities which include punitive damages to be paid by operators, do not correspond at all to the legal culture of european countries. on the contrary, i believe that a european procedure should enable associations to act on behalf of all victims of similar injuries caused by the same unethical professional, so that they can obtain, in a single case and without express protest on their part, the compensation due to them. in conclusion, i would say that this green paper sets ambitious objectives and i personally hope that the vote in this parliament will clearly set the course for a consumer europe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i applaud this initiative for a green paper on the revision of the acquis. i believe that if we want our citizens to see the internal market not just as a threat, we need serious consumer protection, especially as the internal market applies to complex products. of course, i am thinking about this in relation to the question of financial markets. the news shows us every day, if need be, how much of a challenge consumer protection is in this area. in this context, i would like to return to the remarks made yesterday by commissioner mccreevy, who was able to give the impression that the real estate market in the united states is in this state because mortgage borrowers are not financially educated. financial education is important, but it must not be a substitute for genuine consumer protection, which is introduced in all our legislation. this requires horizontal legislation but also sectoral legislation. let us not substitute education for consumer protection and the responsibility of traders when offering products for free circulation in the internal market. my second point concerns group actions. i think our rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mr sánchez presedo, will say something about that, but i think we must make progress in this area too. no one in europe has ever imagined that we would not want to import the american model, but there is a margin between the situation that exists today in the internal market of the european union and the american situation and i trust you, commissioner, to do so with european intelligence. is it normal today that we have no knowledge, no transparency of the complaints that are lodged, the fines that are fixed? let us have a transparent, open debate on the reality of what these group actions cover and let us provide european consumers with this useful tool! one last word, madam president, with your permission. the clear definitions of consumer and trader proposed in the report are important, but we must be careful not to introduce confusion: in the field of financial services, for example, the idea that certain products can be reserved for professionals is an illusion that reduces the guarantees offered to consumers. these products eventually circulate and are offered to all consumers. so let us have that definition, but let us not make it the alpha and omega of consumer protection!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i am pleased that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has unanimously approved the council's common position on the specific programme 'preventing drug use and informing the public' under the general programme 'fundamental rights and justice', as recommended by my colleague inger segelström. i regret that the council, while accepting parliament's positions, rejected the amendments concerning the possibility for parliament to block the commission's decisions on the implementation of the programme, particularly when choosing the annual priorities. i also regret that the european commission, in its statement in plenary, has seen fit to make an exception of its commitments to provide the european parliament with the necessary information on the draft annual work programmes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services.
in writing. i voted in favour of the very good report by my excellent czech colleague, miroslav ouzky, on the international health regulations (ihr) as revised in 2005 by the general assembly of the world health organisation (who). the purpose of this regulation is to prevent the spread of diseases and to ensure that citizens are protected against these diseases without, however, creating unnecessary and costly barriers to international trade. it is urgent that this international health system be implemented in a coordinated manner within the european community, because infectious diseases, as my excellent french colleague, françoise grossetête, has pointed out, are a threat and a challenge for all countries. these health issues will again raise the question of the quality of surveillance of our external borders for both people and goods. it is imperative to support the development of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) established in 2004 and the european public health early warning and response system, which should strengthen the rapid and consistent application of the international health regulations (ihr) in the member states of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. twenty years ago, infectious diseases were not seen as a major threat. today they are a threat and a challenge to all countries. health threats such as pandemic influenza, malaria and tuberculosis are being posed by mutating viruses, increasing resistance to antibiotics and weak health systems new health risks also include foodborne diseases, accidents or chemical, biological or nuclear attacks, industrial pollution and climate change. these threats could endanger millions of people in several countries. the increase in globalisation, the multiplication of international flows and trade are also aggravating factors. international collaboration in the field of infectious disease control is therefore of paramount importance. it is therefore essential to remove all unnecessary barriers to international traffic and trade. this report is an additional incentive for member states to develop more and more joint actions based on the exchange of good practice. the establishment of appropriate alert systems in the event of a serious pandemic in neighbouring and third countries is also necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution proposed by various political groups, including the european people's party (christian democrats) - european democrats (epp-ed) on the objectives of the european union in the run-up to the 8th meeting of the conference of the parties to the united nations convention to combat desertification, to be held in madrid from 3 to 14 september 2007. the current global warming is causing, among other things, the drying up of springs by evaporation, the reduction of river flows and the level of groundwater, and thus the destruction of the surface structure of soils. according to the united nations environment programme (unep), desertification currently affects 25 to 30 per cent of the world's land surface and 1.2 to 2 billion people are at risk in at least 100 countries. desertification is increasing on a global scale, and it is fuelling poverty, forced migration and conflict. i believe that it is urgent for the european union to embark on a european water policy, not just in terms of quality, but also in terms of quality.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my spanish colleague, elena vanlenciano martinez-orozco, on the functioning of human rights dialogues and consultations with third countries. human rights are one of the core values of the european union and it is very important that they are systematically at the heart of the eu's political dialogues with third countries. the council must systematically apply the human rights and democracy clause in all agreements and relations between the eu and third countries. in this respect, i support the idea of improving interinstitutional coherence and thus of establishing mechanisms to improve coordination between the different eu institutions (council, commission and parliament) by setting up an interinstitutional trilogue on political dialogue and human rights dialogues and consultation. at a time when we are experiencing a loss of values in a world which is becoming more complex, the union must impose values linked to human rights and democracy in all its projects and programmes, particularly in the field of development aid and technical, commercial and financial cooperation.
in writing. the report by elena valenciano on the functioning of human rights dialogues and consultations with third countries has just been adopted by a large majority and i congratulate the rapporteur on the thoroughness of her work. the report usefully recalls that the question of human rights must be addressed in the context of a comprehensive political dialogue with third countries. the promotion of human rights is an integral part of the european union's foreign and development policy. it also has the merit of calling on the council and the commission to streamline the procedures for dialogues and consultations. better coherence and more intensive interinstitutional cooperation would give european human rights policy greater credibility on the international stage. objective evaluation and monitoring would also follow. finally, the report stresses the need for transparency in these dialogues at the level of the european executive and for a stronger role for the european parliament in these dialogues. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of adopting this report in the final vote in plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the very good own-initiative report by my spanish colleague, carmen fraga estévez, in response to the european commission's communication on the application of the principle of sustainability in the european union fisheries by means of maximum sustainable yield (msy). i share her view that the commission should recognise the failure of the current fisheries management policy and welcome its intention to create a new management model to restore resources, adapt fishing effort to the reality of fisheries and achieve greater profitability and stability of the fishing fleet. however, we must be careful and take our fishing capacity into account in the light of the needs of european and world consumption and the urgent need to be attentive to resources. in addition, any change to the union's fisheries policy will necessarily have to include adequate and financially sufficient compensation mechanisms, not to mention regulatory adaptation, which implies a study of the legal and socio-economic implications of the final proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague béatrice patrie on the green paper on the revision of the community acquis on consumer protection, taking into account in particular the stated objective of modernising, simplifying and improving the regulatory framework for businesses and individuals, thus facilitating cross-border trade and strengthening consumer confidence. it is right to ask ourselves regularly, especially with the development of internet commerce, whether the proper functioning of the internal market offers a fair balance between a high level of consumer protection and the competitiveness of enterprises, in strict compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. this report offers interesting insights, whether on the general legislative approach, the limitation of unfair terms, the harmonization of legislation, the right of withdrawal, the sale of consumer goods or, finally, the effective application of consumer law.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on burma.
member of the commission. mr president, the crackdown on peaceful protestors on the last day of august has once again spotlighted the scandal of human rights in burma, and the commission remains very worried about this situation. we believe that the military regime is a threat to the region and, most of all, to the country and the people of burma. a large part of the population of 52 million is in anguish and poverty, which is the result of bad political and economic governance. in an environment of political, social and economic insecurity, issues of human rights are sadly taking backstage, and the most recent detention of political activists is a case in point. the overriding challenge for the government – national reconciliation and economic development – is obvious. but for the international community, helping the transition of burma towards being a more open and more developed society to be led by a legitimate and civilian government must remain the paramount goal. the national convention process, which has just finished, was a very formal procedure to boost the current regime’s power. it was certainly not a genuine exercise to draft a new constitution and was far from inclusive. that is why the commission fully shares the view of the united states secretary-general ban ki-moon, who has requested the government embark on an inclusive, participatory and transparent process, with a view to allowing all the relevant parties to myanmar’s national reconciliation process to fully contribute to defining the country’s future. we also welcome the work of ibrahim gambari, as special envoy for myanmar of the united nations secretary-general. we hope that the good offices of the united nations will continue. professor gambari is due to visit myanmar shortly. we criticise, specifically, the working conditions in the country for the red cross. the government, in its own interests and out of respect for international humanitarian law, should allow the international committee of the red cross to continue its mission. at the same time, we should note a few encouraging signals. the commission hopes that the recent arrangement between the government of burma and the ilo, handling the complaints against forced labour, will help the victims. we acknowledge that the government has agreed in early august with its asean partners to the inclusion of a human rights commission in the planned asean charter, the constitutional document. what can the eu do? an effective policy should aim at bringing the country back into the international community, allowing for political, social and economic development. the eu common position reflects this need; it is a balanced document, detailing our criticisms, while engaging government over its responsibilities and offering assistance to the people. as regards engaging the regime, there is a consensus that more needs to be done, not less. isolation will only make the population pay a greater price. the commission maintains that channels of communication with the government must be kept open, notably to convey our concerns about human rights and, in this regard, the commission uses all appropriate occasions, for instance the asem meetings, and the eu asean meetings, to raise the need for an inclusive dialogue among all stakeholders. we regularly press for national reconciliation and for the liberation of political detainees. to help the people of myanmar, and specifically the most vulnerable parts of the population, the commission is increasing its assistance programmes in quantitative and in qualitative terms. a new country strategy foresees support for health and basic education, for instance the three diseases fund, which is supported by the eu and its partner, is already working well to fights aids, malaria and tuberculosis. this comes on top of our significant humanitarian aid. in particular, as foreseen in the eu common position, the european union wishes to engage the government in a critical dialogue over its responsibilities to achieve the millennium development goals, and the commission hopes that the government is prepared to step up the existing dialogue in areas of health and education, among others. unfortunately, we do not believe that additional restrictive measures will push the government in the desired direction or will alleviate the suffering of the people.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on bangladesh.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission shares the concern at the human rights situation in bangladesh articulated in the draft parliamentary resolutions. the european union, by the way, has a commendable history of constructive engagement on human rights and democracy with bangladesh, and the decision to send an eu election observation mission to scrutinise the abortive 2007 elections and to suspend the mission in the face of the awami league boycott and compelling evidence of efforts to rig the polls, is an example of that engagement. in the wake of the formation of the military-backed caretaker government and the declaration of a state of emergency in january 2007, the eu has sought to balance strong support for a return to democracy in 2008 with the rigorous monitoring of the human rights situation. this is reflected in the european commission’s intention to extend substantial support, alongside eight other international development partners, to the development of a voter list with photos. parliament will recall that profound misgivings over the list prepared for the 2007 elections were a key factor in the postponement of the polls. the ec delegation in dhaka is closely following the voters’ list pilot project and has provided highly positive feedback on the process. the eu has, however, consistently made clear that progress on technical preparations for the elections must be matched by progress on political reforms, and as the eu troika underlined during its visit to dhaka in june, the political parties must be implicated in the reform process as soon as possible. in an encouraging move, the bangladesh election commission has now announced a schedule for consultations with the 15 principal parties in the country. the eu has made strong representations to the government of bangladesh, and to the military, on the need to ensure respect for the human rights and due process, most recently during a local eu troika démarche to the foreign affairs advisors on 8 august. that démarche also provided the opportunity to raise seven individual cases of human rights violations. the government has provided detailed responses to some of those cases. eu heads of mission will continue to pursue human rights concerns with the authorities, with a view to ensuring that those who have committed abuses are appropriately punished and the others released. as to the specific case of united nations special rapporteur, sigma huda, the head of the ec delegation in dhaka has conveyed concerns regarding her medical condition and treatment to the ministry of foreign affairs. i understand that mrs suda is appealing the decision of the trial court, and the ec will follow the case very closely. support for human rights and good governance also constitutes one of the three priorities for the ec financial assistance to bangladesh under the country strategy paper for 2007-2013, alongside human and social development and trade and economic development. eur 55 million have been earmarked for action under that priority for the period 2007 to 2010. in conclusion, the european commission remains optimistic that bangladesh is on track to hold credible parliamentary elections in 2008. we are extending substantial political and financial support to that goal, while – and i would like to underline this – remaining very vigilant on human rights and other concerns.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the financing of the special court for sierra leone. i should like to point out that some of our colleagues are currently in sierra leone to monitor the elections.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission is strongly committed to assisting in the transition of sierra leone from a situation of post-conflict to one of development and to support its efforts in sustaining peace, stability and democracy. we have fully supported past, current and future actions of the court in bringing perpetrators of war crimes to justice, thus recognising the suffering of the sierra leoneans during the civil war. the work of the special court sends an important signal to everyone that serious crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes will no longer remain unpunished, no matter where they have taken place. the commission has been providing financial assistance to the court since 2002. this assistance was granted indirectly in 2002, by supporting the project worth almost eur 685 000 through a coalition of ngos led by no peace without justice to identify human rights violations, to raise awareness among the legal profession and to provide legal assistance to the government of sierra leone. since 2003, the commission has provided the funds to the special court directly, through the european initiative for democracy and human rights as already mentioned. an overall budget of about eur 2.1 million has been allocated to the court by means of three victims’ justice and legacy projects. the overall objective of these projects was inter alia to ensure that the special court contributes to a broader understanding of justice for victims of the conflict. moreover, in 2006, the emphasis was given to the coverage and proximity of charles taylor’s trial and it targeted civil society groups as well as the people of liberia and the subregion. the special court will be supported in 2008 by the new european instrument for democracy and human rights, which was adopted in the context of the new financial framework 2007-2013. the amount of eur 600 000 has been reserved in the annual action plan from the 2007 budget. the commission is holding the talks with the court to identify the project proposal for the 2007 funding. it has been said several times by different members that there are difficulties to find sufficient means for financing the special court. that is why the commission is considering raising this matter with the member states and it is also exploring the possibility of financing the court and its outreach activities through other financial instruments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate, that is to say, in a moment.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
according to the information provided by the hearing officer, mr tannock, your oral amendment was tabled in the event of rejection of amendment no 2. however, amendment no 2 was adopted. so in principle your oral amendment is rejected. that said, if the honourable members consider that the name of moudud ahmed can be added to the list in recital f, i have no objection to that. is there any objection to this oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was accepted)
we're not going to create a special court for your associate. so, if there are no objections from the house, we shall proceed with the roll-call at the time of the final vote. - before the vote on paragraph 6
that's a valid point, but since there are only three characters, we'll have a hard time respecting parity. so we'll have to think about the number of characters.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.20 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we should argue about this and not let our colleagues - just because they are social democrats - speak for everyone and decide what is reasonable. we want to say something against that, which is perhaps even more reasonable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to comment on the question of why we should decide to adopt a resolution now. i don't understand the debate at all. everyone applauded when the president made a clear statement. the president-in-office has said that this could be incorporated into a resolution which parliament could adopt this thursday. what is so difficult about condemning what is happening in burma right now? what's the problem? who needs ten, twenty days to say: we are on the side of those who are fighting for freedom in burma. that's it! that's ten lines! if the social democrats or the ppe-de cannot do it, we will formulate it for them.
mr president, i would just like to add that i am returning from poland. i've been on a four-day visit to poland. i looked around, i talked to the poles. fortunately, i haven't found any poles who speak like our colleague. i found the poles very european. i also put a wreath at the concentration camp: i believe that all countries have been there too, and everyone is against it happening again, and especially you, mr president! so, fortunately, it was not poland that spoke here, nor the polish citizen, but dangerous men, who, with this dangerous speech, would be ready to repeat what happened in dachau. i'm being very harsh. never again, and especially not this hatred in the european parliament! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, in order to tackle global warming and to put this ambitious roadmap into place, the link between energy and the environment is absolutely essential. of course, we have repeatedly pointed out that the member states will not reach the 12% renewable energy target for 2010. so how do we get to 20% by 2020? the commission's development calculation methods do not internalise the environmental costs of energy production and our energy policies remain fragmented, whereas an integrated and comprehensive approach is needed. in the field of energy, we can do much better and achieve results quickly. for example, energy efficiency must be developed so that everyone can eliminate unnecessary energy expenditure. administrative procedures also need to be simplified. in france, for example, the installation of a photovoltaic panel is part of the combatant's training: no less than seven procedures must be completed to convert the energy consumer into a producer. but we also need consistency in development cooperation. what is the union proposing in the framework of the partnership agreements with the acp countries to put renewable energies into practice? when we talk about solar energy, for example, the poorest of the poor say that this technology is totally out of their reach. and what about the member states which finance the growing of biofuels in the southern countries? in africa and asia, jatropha plantations are growing in areas that are also affected by drought and food insecurity. in addition, the union has responsibilities towards third countries which supply it with raw energy materials. european investments in uranium mines in niger or the chad-cameroon oil pipeline must be accompanied by transfers of clean energy production technologies in the framework of micro-projects. the energy crisis, mr president, is ecological; it calls for contingency plans and binding policies. it is urgent to put the package on renewable energy.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first like to share everyone's satisfaction with this railway package. we've come from far away. there were four texts at the start, there are three at the finish. we started in 2004 and we're now in september 2007. that means we didn't take the high-speed train, we took the bus. it's been slow, but eventually, we get to the terminal. i believe that we owe this, first of all, to the great determination and the strong cohesion of the members of parliament and, in particular, of all the groups and the three rapporteurs here, but also of all those who, including the fictitious rapporteurs, have contributed to the building. we also owe it to the european commission, and i would like to thank commissioner barrot and the commission for their help in difficult times, because the conciliation was extremely perilous and unlikely. we also owe it to the german presidency and to the german minister for transport, mr tiefensee, who has put a lot of his own money into it: he has participated in several conciliations and i think that without his arbitration and his will to succeed, we would not have this railway package today. i am thinking in particular of the text which has given rise to the greatest number of problems, the text on passenger rights. i would like to pay tribute to the work of dirk sterckx. it is rather curious that there has been so much resistance to rail passenger rights. it's true that the railway is not quite the road, it's a guide. it is also true that delays can sometimes accumulate. it is true that safety is paramount and that trains can be delayed for noble reasons. however, we will be decades behind the airline industry and we have touched on the enormous conservatism of the european railway world: its enormous resistance to passenger rights which will have been finally lifted because we have accepted derogations which may lead us to implementation in fifteen years, that is to say, around 2023. i would just like to say that if we are proud of this text, we will be much more discreet about the timetables, because i believe that introducing passenger rights over a period of perhaps 15 years is not entirely decent when we want to develop the railway, as is the case today. i would also like to say that i am personally pleased that a european driving licence is being created, since it is called 'certification of drivers'. it's a very complicated thing. georg jarzembowki has given us the details, and i believe that this is the result of very good work by the members of parliament, by all the members of parliament. i would like to thank his group, which is not always so open to these questions, but which has been particularly supportive in this respect. i would say that it is exemplary because it is the result of sectoral social dialogue. so it is really an example to set against all those who doubt that europe is the europe of the citizens. i think we need to make it more popular. i say this: i personally attach great importance to the appointment we have made and obtained by the european parliament for the flight crew who are responsible for safety. there are people who save lives, even though they are not train drivers, because that is their job inside the trains, and it is very important that there is certification for these people, even though this certification should not be at the same level as the drivers, of course. so i hope that the rendezvous clause we got will be honored. finally, on opening up and liberalization, i believe that if we really want to make rail europe, we must first accept that other people's trains pass through our territory. so this is an inescapable prospect. i think we should proceed in stages. we will not be ready at the same level, and i would add that even when we have very good guidelines on opening up, there will be whole countries that will not open up. i am thinking of ireland, because it has no international line running through it; i think maybe finland, because they're a bit of a sack-ass and they tend to open up to russia, which is quite legitimate; and then i think especially of all these countries that have different sizes and have different path divergences. this means that the first and most important project for the construction of railway europe is interoperability: this is the main project for the coming years. we must achieve this railway europe through liberalization directives, no doubt, but we must first invest in the networks, which must allow for technical interoperability. it does not matter if we open up competition between france and spain: if we keep track gauges that are different, we will not carry more freight and no more passengers. in a way, the report on drivers, on driver certification, is a report on interoperability. it is social interoperability that must enable different drivers to consider themselves european, and not just national. and i believe that if we can transcend national cultures in the railway, then we can ensure a future for the railway. there is urgency, given the development of road and air transport.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the situation of rail transport compared with road transport has always been unfavourable. in fact, rail is losing the battle in all european countries when it comes to freight transport. today, fortunately, this situation is improving, with the commission's decision to allocate at least 40% of transport expenditure to rail, and this in the framework of the first railway package. infrastructure will have to benefit in particular, since all the railway lines that have been closed down for reasons of non-profitability have meant that a good part of these freight or passenger transport services have been replaced by road transport. as regards the report by mr sterckx on rail passengers' rights and obligations, the main points in the report are in the right direction, namely the protection of passengers, including compensation for delayed trains, the right to transport people with reduced mobility and the responsibility of the carrier towards passengers and their luggage. but there is one very important point for all families which seems to have been completely overlooked in this report. this is the right to a reduced-price ticket for large families. this reduction card for large families, which can range from 50 to 75% depending on the number of children, already exists in a number of eu member states, including france, but, curiously, it is not included or even envisaged in this regulation. however, in order to increase the development of rail passenger transport, this incentive measure in financial terms, but also in terms of transport time compared to road, would certainly be a major asset in the match between rail and road.
in writing. i am pleased that parliament and the council were able to reach agreement on the third railway package. on the report by our colleague, mr dirk sterckx, i am particularly pleased that we have succeeded in getting the council to accept that the rights and obligations apply to all travellers within the european union, not just international passengers. all rail passengers now enjoy important rights, whether in terms of compensation in the event of delays or cancellations, information provided to them or access for people with reduced mobility. according to the georg jarzembowski report, the opening of international passenger transport by rail to competition from 1 january 2010 should increase the efficiency of this mode of transport and have a positive impact on passengers in terms of fares and operator choice. finally, rail transport lines which are in deficit may be financed when they meet public service objectives. this is an important measure to ensure that rail transport is available to all. the provisions introduced by this third railway package are a real step forward for the citizens and i welcome this.
in writing. i am pleased that my position to open up passenger services to competition without haste has been followed. the third railway package allows the liberalisation of international passenger services from 2010 onwards, by providing a viable infrastructure financing mechanism. after the commission has produced in 2012 economic, social and safety studies, we can then calmly discuss the advisability of extending these mechanisms to national travel services. we wanted this modernisation of railway management to be accompanied by important safety considerations. the new rules will require cabin crew to meet common qualification and training requirements leading to the issue of a 'rail driver's licence'. finally, parliament has achieved a considerable strengthening of the fundamental rights of passengers, both on international and national routes: liability in the event of an accident, rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. i regret, however, the deadlock in the council, which will allow for derogations for a period of up to 15 years in the implementation of the right to information, compensation for delay and accidents, and the transport of bicycles on trains.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, madam commissioner, the 'sucre' cmo was working. it was cheap and even offered our market to the acp countries. but in the wto negotiations, thailand, australia and especially brazil have demanded a monopoly on sugar. at the same time, to win allies in the doha round, pascal lamy, who was then the commissioner for foreign trade, offered the removal of customs duties to the 49 ldcs with the "everything but arms" programme. in 2009 and 2010, europe will also receive sugar from theoretically poor countries, but produced with kuwaiti, saudi or other capital, in sudan or elsewhere. the european sugar beet growers and the sugar growers in the outermost regions must therefore sacrifice themselves for the benefit of brazil and other countries, hence the 2006 reform, as for cereals, milk and wine soon. our producers must disappear, which in european parlance is called 'restructuring'. of course, to get the cereals farmers to give up, they are paid: this is called 'restructuring aid', as is the case with the aid for the hay-scrap, the premium for the grubbing-up. but 18 months after the aid, it doesn't work! commissioner, you are repeating the old speech about mountains of grain and oceans of milk by saying that in 2007 and 2008 there will be 4 million tonnes of surplus, hence the two proposals for regulations today, to get rid of, it is said, almost 4 million tonnes of sugar. financial incentives are being increased, withdrawals are being increased, and additional payments are being made, and aid is being increased. of course, these aids will disappear after 2010 and our farmers will be eliminated, as will acp producers, not to mention the workers, the only beneficiaries being the importers. but these malthusian policies have been applied to cereals since 1993, and mr parish told us at 9 o'clock that there was a shortage of wheat, that prices were soaring and that the farm should be abandoned. so, there is still a little bit of hope: in 2011 there will be a new regulation explaining to us that there is a lack of sugar and that we must re-sow!
mr president, 65% of the toys that are distributed in europe, sold in europe, are made in china, and the presence of our two commissioners shows how important this problem is. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised. and when it comes to very young children, the problem is even more serious. safety is not something that can be compromised, especially when the products in question are intended for the youngest. i am particularly concerned about the failure of the member states to provide for the checks that can be carried out. we know that many products made in china are dangerous, but this is not just about toys, it is also about textiles, it is now about vehicles. so the problem is huge, and the european commission really needs to look at this. that is why i am in favour of raising the safety standards - the famous ec standard - so that we can reduce the risk of dangerous substances in these products sold from china. i am thinking of course of the chemicals, which we have talked about a lot. the responsibility of companies is involved, but mattel has shown that it is taking its own responsibility. the responsibility of the member states is even greater. it's even more important because i'm deeply concerned about what's going to happen through internet sales. how can we be sure that all these toys that are being withdrawn by mattel will not end up being sold to our european consumers via the internet? so what control can we exert? what is important is that consumers are informed: that they know the risks involved in buying these products, and that they also know that cheap and low prices cannot be combined with safety and health. it is also important that we put in place controls - upstream controls at production sites, controls that are done independently and autonomously - and that we avoid these stocks of defective products flooding the market, creating further damage.
commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the matter of the recall by the american toy manufacturer mattel of several million toys manufactured in china is significant for three reasons. firstly, it leads to a reaffirmation of the urgency of the revision of the 1988 toy directive. secondly, this event demonstrates the need for increased market control and surveillance, the need to make ce marking compulsory and to ensure its credibility. finally, one can legitimately ask questions about the flaws in the current model of globalized trade, and about the way in which the world's leading toy manufacturer has not been able to work with subcontractors deemed to be reliable. the european union must be extremely vigilant, both in respect of safety and health standards and in respect of the fundamental standards of the international labour organisation, with all the countries with which it has signed a partnership agreement, a cooperation agreement or a free trade agreement.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this summer mattel recalled 20 million toys from china, re-launching the debate on the value of ce marking and the sanctions against operators who fail to comply with european standards. what is the union waiting for? brazil has already banned imports. the united states and canada are launching an investigation. we are debating. the commission must be reactive. this implies: revising european legislation on toys before christmas, calling for the requirement of maximum harmonisation; ensuring that manufacturers comply with safety, social and environmental standards - why not provide for a new european label to reinforce the ce marking? - review the effectiveness of controls and sanction manufacturers, if necessary; clarify the responsibilities between producers and importers; the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules in the field of customs cooperation. it is a question of the union's responsibility and credibility vis-à-vis consumers. how can we encourage them to share a positive vision of europe without first restoring their confidence?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many unscrupulous businessmen and producers all over the world who trade within the wto. they don't care about the environment any more than they care about the health of their employees and customers, or the fact that they may be children. they're all about making a profit at any cost. these companies are not just chinese and they don't just sell toys. they must therefore find institutions and laws that can put a stop to their fraudulent and even criminal activities. we can only see today the weakness of our control systems and question the meaning of the ce marking on products marketed in europe. this marking must mean that the products comply with european legislation and not that they could comply with it, which is a deception to the consumer. the ce marking is useless if it is not based on real product safety. this is what the european consumer wants, just as he wants his health to be put before the interests of the market. to this end, the european union must also be more firm in its negotiations with the wto.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague, mrs angelina niebler, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the european community and the state of israel. i would like to congratulate the european commission for negotiating this agreement, which is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocal opportunities to engage in programmes and activities by each party in the areas covered by the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property and the fair sharing of intellectual property rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my spanish colleague, mr gérardo galeote, on the proposal for a council decision authorising france to apply a reduced rate of excise duty on 'traditional' rum produced in its overseas departments and repealing the council decision of 18 february 2002. the purpose of this proposal is to authorise france to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to 'traditional' rum produced in the overseas departments (dom) for an important quota from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2012. it extends the current tax regime applicable to traditional rum in terms of volume and duration, as the situation has deteriorated in recent years. this is excellent news for the production of sugar cane and rum, which are essential to ensure the economic and social balance of these territories. i am glad that this first reading vote without amendment opens the way to a rapid adoption of this text and i welcome the important work done by my french colleague, margie sudre, who in the committee on regional development strongly defended this dossier.
in writing. the new tax scheme takes account of the fact that the competitiveness of traditional rum in the dom has deteriorated considerably since 2001 and that support for the sugar cane-rum sector is essential for the economic and social balance of these regions. the measure is proportionate to the additional costs incurred by the sector due to the handicaps of the outermost regions, in particular the remoteness, the narrow market and the rugged terrain, which explain the high price of cane. the commission has duly taken into account that 40 000 jobs depend on the cultivation of sugar cane, directly and indirectly, on a total of 5 500 farms. the new tax regime should also help to maintain the 10 distilleries in guadeloupe, 9 in martinique, 3 in réunion and 1 in french guiana, and about 22 000 direct jobs linked to rum production. european aid will help to secure the market for dom rum, resisting competition from acp producers, and will benefit local producers who were waiting for a positive signal, well aware of the extreme difficulties they will face in the coming years, particularly following the devastating passage of cyclone dean over the west indies last month.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague, mr hans-peter mayer, on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the passenger restraint system of two-wheel motor vehicles (codified version). i take this opportunity to denounce the delay in the work of codifying european law. as regards this case, the facts date back to 27 march 2003, when the european commission presented a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council codifying council directive 93/32/eec on the passenger restraint system of two-wheel motor vehicles. in its opinion of 26 june 2003, the legal services advisory group, set up under the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, stated that this proposal was indeed limited to a pure and simple codification, without any change in the substance of the acts which are the subject of it. and it is only in september 2007 that we are voting on this codification: it is not normal! i urge the european commission to speed up the codification of european law.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague, mr hans-peter mayer, on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the cradle of two-wheel motor vehicles (codified version). i take this opportunity to denounce the delay in the work of codifying european law. the facts date back to 28 march 2003 when the european commission presented a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council codifying council directive 93/31/eec on the cradle of two-wheel motor vehicles. in its opinion of 26 june 2003, the legal services advisory group, set up under the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, stated that this proposal was indeed limited to a pure and simple codification, without any change in the substance of the acts which are the subject of it. and it is only in september 2007 that we are voting on this codification: it is not normal! i urge the european commission to speed up the codification of european law.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague, mr hans-peter mayer, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the location for the installation of the rear registration plate of two- or three-wheel motor vehicles (codified version). i take this opportunity to denounce the delay in the work of codifying european law. as regards this case, the facts date back to 5 september 2006, when the commission presented the proposal to codify council directive 93/94/eec of 29 october 1993 relating to the mounting of rear registration plates on two or three-wheel motor vehicles. i did not know whether the legal services consultative group, set up under the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, had been consulted. in any case, we are voting on this codification only in september 2007: it is not normal! i urge the european commission to speed up the codification of european law.
in writing. as part of the reform of the sugar cmo, the european union wanted to help refineries adapt to the restructuring of the european sugar industry by providing 'transitional aid' of eur 150 million. i had the opportunity to welcome and support this initiative, which was intended in particular to help the saint-louis sucre refinery in marseilles to cope with the new conditions on the sugar market, while preserving employment. but i also alerted the competent european and french authorities to the lack of transparency in the criteria for awarding this aid, which is the responsibility of the member states. the payment of this aid is not conditional on the continuation of the refining activity and the maintenance of employment. there is also no guarantee that this aid will not be used as a 'relocation bonus' to a non-eu country. the new reform should have provided an opportunity to clarify this point. i'm afraid that's not the case. the matter is now in the hands of the council. i call on the commission and the french authorities in particular to be extremely vigilant and to provide all the necessary clarifications on this question, which concerns the employment of our fellow citizens.
in writing. support the european union's commitment to reach an ambitious target of 20% renewable energy in the total share of energy consumed in europe by 2020. the benefits that europe can derive from renewable energy are many: reduction of co2 emissions, reduction of european dependence and contribution to job creation and growth. however, we must ensure that all renewable energies are developed in a sustainable way and, of course, in accordance with the capacities of the member states, and also that energy is saved - in terms of consumption and energy efficiency. i regret that the directive on electricity produced from renewable energy sources does not require cogeneration and leads to the setting up of large-scale biomass plants without cogeneration, which are not energy efficient and destabilise the market for industrial wood and energy wood. i have examples of this in my area, limousin. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is calling for a proposal on the heating and cooling sectors to be at the heart of the future framework directive on renewable energies and i have therefore voted for the thomsen report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls on member states to take the necessary measures to increase the share of renewable energy in their energy mix. renewable energy sources must become the lever to achieve the dual objective of greater security of supply and a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. the energy efficiency target should not be seen as a precondition for achieving the 20% renewable energy target by 2020, but as a condition in its own right. this will create new jobs and encourage research and innovation in the energy sector. i am thinking, for example, of the research effort to provide wider access to environmentally friendly building materials for housing. renewable energy is one of the best safeguards for consumers and industry against the dual impact of increased energy imports and higher fuel prices. finally, i welcome the freedom to choose the most appropriate renewable energy sources, given the differences in the development potential of certain renewable energies, inherent in the geological, hydrological and climatic characteristics of the member states.
in writing. we strongly support the promotion of renewable energy, whether for transport, for heating buildings, for electricity generation. we see it, as do all our colleagues here, as a way of protecting the environment, but also of reducing our energy dependence. however, we cannot support mrs thomsen's report. firstly, because its real objective is not ecological or even economic, it is dogmatic: it is, as stated in the explanatory statement, to establish a common energy policy at european level and this objective must take precedence over everything else. energy policy, which is a matter of sovereignty and independence, must be a matter for national competence alone, which in no way precludes cooperation and solidarity. the proposals in the report do not appear to us to be sufficient to guarantee that national specificities will be taken into account, not only geographical particularities but also specific economic constraints. the text also fails to mention how the least developed countries in this field can be helped to reach a binding target for all. so yes, renewable energy, but not as a pretext for an extension of the powers of the european union.
on behalf of the its group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, in 1977, under president carter, two probes, which are apparently far from our subject, voyager 1 and voyager 2, were launched into space. the late physicist carl sagan had put into these two probes a message from president waldheim, a drawing of a man and a woman, the main mathematical formulas known on earth, a disc containing the sound of wind, a tractor, the babbling of a baby, excerpts from mozart, beethoven and chuck berry. last year, these two probes left the solar system, the heliosphere as it's called, to go 42,000 light-years to the next star, which is 200,000 kilometers multiplied by 3600, multiplied by 24, multiplied by 365 and multiplied by 42,000. in 30 years, these two probes have returned no signals, no signals have been picked up. at present, the only known life is on earth. at this scale, it is obvious that the criminal code of texas or china that provides for the termination of such an exceptionally rare commodity as life is a chilling aberration. so the portuguese proposal for a conference on life and human dignity is on the level of the people of the caravels. because being against the death penalty is only one aspect of the challenge and the political teleology. the aim of all politics can only be a life of many forms, abundant. opposition to the death penalty may be sympathetic, but it is only one aspect, like euthanasia, of a central political problem: politics, for what? to create everywhere the economic, social and material conditions for the flourishing of this mysterious good called life, or the malthusian policy of no future, of pacts of rigorousness, rationing, prohibitions, withdrawals, herod bonuses, slaughter, british burnings? that is the real subject and the real dimension of the death penalty: it is this political choice between the future and life.
madam president, the number of countries which are abolitionist or apply a moratorium is increasing every year. certainties are wavering, even in retentionist states like the united states, and coalitions are being organized in muslim countries. yet every day, steps are taken to avoid a capital punishment. homosexuality is still punishable by death in several countries, and unfortunately the current european context shows that this fight is still very difficult. on the moratorium and the united nations general assembly, parliament asks you, mr president-in-office of the council, for the third time this year, in the most solemn manner: everything must be done to obtain, as soon as possible, by the end of the year, a resolution at the united nations general assembly for a moratorium, as a strategy on the road to abolition. i think we are all saying the same thing here: it is up to you to act and to mobilize. on the european day against the death penalty, how can we explain that we have not said a word about the situation in europe today on this issue? how can a country exploit such an issue for domestic policy purposes, and thereby make sure that it is in breach of the european project, of article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights, of the common, perhaps oldest, objectives of its external action? the institutions of the european union and you, as president-in-office of the council, cannot tolerate this situation! the 10th of october will be the world day against the death penalty. we, the european parliament, will be meeting in mini-session in brussels. it is crucial that parliament marks this event as solemnly and as firmly as possible.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i think we should not go around the bush. the problem is not the respect we owe to this great country, brazil, the problem is the current turn in international relations. mr mandelson and, it seems, dg trade have abandoned the ideal of multilateralism and joined the us bilateral practice. what was still the hallmark of europe's position in international trade was that we wanted at least bi-regionalism, that is to say, to discuss from region to region. we are told that we are discussing brazil as we discuss india, as if we had to compensate for this memory of british imperialism by a memory of portuguese or spanish imperialism! but, excuse me, india is two and a half times europe, including turkey. india is three times the size of all of latin america. our goal is to help a multipolar world. that means that we must first help the unification of mercosur and mercosur and can, and then the unification of the entire south american community of nations. in this context, we have nothing against any discussion, whether with bolivia or with brazil, but we must always bear in mind that we must seek to unite and not to divide. we must put mercosur ahead of brazil in our agenda of priorities and when we talk to brazil we must think about the consequences this may have, including in our discussions with asean on sugar.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a world geopolitical context which is today being transformed more and more, our parliament has repeatedly expressed its unwavering determination to strengthen the partnership between our two continents. i believe that mercosur must be this new entity and that it can enable us to provide together answers, which are both ambitious, balanced and political in nature, to questions of energy supply, reduction of the greenhouse effect and the quality of the products of our agriculture. but this regional integration of south america cannot be promoted or be effective if we prefer to engage in trade negotiations with one of the mercosur members rather than working in partnership with the whole of the new entity. for my part, i insist that regional integration, which i believe is a vector of stability and prosperity for this part of the world, as well as for us, be supported and accompanied, and i think it would be a pity if the mercosur member countries were to turn away from this great project because of our own lack of political will and thus not seize this opportunity for our two continents, latin america and europe. this would be a clear contrast to the american desire to create a vast free trade area covering the entire american continent.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your speeches. i have had the opportunity on previous occasions to explain, justify and inform the european parliament about the first eu-brazil summit, its results and its objectives. moreover, the importance of this strategic partnership with brazil has been widely emphasized by many members here today, and i can only welcome the fact that those members who at first seemed to have doubts or were more hesitant about the will of the portuguese initiative now seem in fact to be more yielding to the strategic choice that portugal, as presidency but the european union as a whole, has made with regard to brazil. of course, we have talked and talked about the importance of brazil on the political, economic, environmental and energy levels, fundamental realities in the contemporary world that we cannot ignore. it would be strange, as has been pointed out here, if the european union, which has strategic relations, strategic partnerships with russia, india and china, did not have them with brazil. we assume that we have made good use of this shortcoming and we assume that in a few years' time, without any doubt, everyone will applaud this initiative of the portuguese presidency. but we have also always made it absolutely clear that this strategic partnership which we believe the european union should establish with brazil in no way excludes or limits another relationship which we also want to have with mercosur, both at economic and political level. and i must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that i am relatively comfortable with this matter because portugal has always been one of those countries in the european union which has always striven for a close, deep and supportive relationship with the mercosur countries in all aspects of that relationship, and therefore we are not afraid of, nor do we want, the impression to be created here that a partnership with brazil necessarily excludes or may exclude a close partnership with the mercosur countries. this view, which may be a view of exclusion rather than a view of complementarity, does not seem useful to us and, above all, does not seem to correspond to the truth, quite the contrary. and, as has been pointed out here, it is the very final declaration of the eu-brazil summit which expressly states in an absolutely unequivocal way that the european union and brazil will work together to make this eu-mercosur association agreement finally a reality. we all know the vicissitudes of this eu-mercosur association agreement. we are truly at an impasse. much of this impasse is of course, as is well known, related to the trade issues between the european union and mercosur. the doha round has started and what happens in the doha round obviously has an influence on the trade side of the trade area between the european union and mercosur. but i would like to make it very clear to you that as soon as the portuguese presidency believes that the minimum conditions have been created for this debate and this relationship to be effectively relaunched, we will not fail to do so and also ensure that if not during the portuguese presidency portugal as a member state will not cease to be its function, its objective, as it has always been, and will not fail to draw the attention of its partners to the real need to relaunch the negotiations for the association agreement with mercosur in all its aspects. and i should say to you, in conclusion, that we are considering, we will see if it is possible, during the portuguese presidency, to have a high-level troika meeting with the mercosur countries. we are studying this possibility, as i say, a possibility on the presidency's agenda, which is obviously, as everyone knows, a very busy agenda, a very complex agenda, but we will do our utmost to relaunch this debate with the mercosur countries at the political level as well.
member of the commission. mr president, i am also very grateful for the atmosphere, the debate and the real openness on this issue. i think we have to be responsive to the realities of the time and, fortunately, we now have many more important partners for multilateral cooperation than maybe 10 or 20 years ago. the reality is that brazil is the only country missing from the brics group, one of the five which are regularly invited by the g8 to its summits and a country which represents eu investment equalling the level of investment in russia, china and india cumulatively from eu countries, so it is a really important partner. it is even more important to add that the strategic partnership is complementary to overall broader priorities, including cooperation with latin america and with mercosur: in the partnership itself, one of the strategic common issues is the promotion of regional integration and an eu-mercosur association agreement. a lot has been said about the content and some concerns voiced. we addressed them. for example, in the food safety area in the first half of this year, an intensive programme of inspections was carried out, especially regarding beef, fishery products and poultry. we have witnessed significant improvements in food safety, and many deficiencies have been largely rectified, but of course the work will continue, as some of you said, even at political level. the commissioner will visit brazil next month to discuss this area, and that is a very important area of closer cooperation. it is our common cause, our common interest, that the doha development round is concluded successfully. we are doing all we can in this regard on all sides in order to reach the end, hopefully this year. i shall make a small remark on what could be done in promotion of cooperation with other countries. there is, for example, one area which i wanted to raise as a good case. brazil is the first country from latin america to cooperate in our research programme and, via this experience and bridge, i think we can gradually do more in other countries. so it is not against the others; it is one of the leading economies and partners in the area and cooperation is growing overall. it is very complementary to our ambitions to bring more integration to the latin american continent. the commission will keep you duly informed about the process, as requested. we are now awaiting the political response to the communication from the brazilian side. on the basis of this response, we will try mutually to draft an action plan proposal and then hopefully get this action plan agreed and implemented. last but not least, i want to express my gratitude to the presidency for its commitment and very positive input, regarding not only the first historical summit, but also the development of cooperation between the eu and brazil and between the eu and mercosur as a broader area.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed.
the commission's communication on the green paper on urban transport is on the agenda.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i have just presented these proposals on urban mobility to the house and i am pleased to now give them to the european parliament. the united nations is preparing for the international conference on climate change to be held in bali in december. yesterday, a preparatory meeting of heads of state and government took place in new york, at which the european union unveiled its very ambitious proposal to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. urban transport is one area where efforts need to be made. pollution from private and public urban transport of people and goods accounts for 40% of co2 and 70% of other pollutants emitted by road. the green paper i am presenting to you today is the result of an intensive initial consultation process, which began last january and continued until june: consultation of the institutions, city representatives, stakeholders and citizens. the consultation shows that there is a strong desire among the actors to put urban mobility on the european agenda. local authorities and european cities should not be left to manage this delicate situation on their own. it is not my intention to impose central solutions which are not adapted to local circumstances. the role of the union is rather to identify, in partnership with all parties, the obstacles to urban mobility and the means of removing them. the european union must draw attention to this and, if necessary, play a leading role in this area. how should urban mobility be re-imagined? i have five basic objectives. first, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a more fluid city. across europe, the increase in traffic in city centres leads to permanent congestion. the impact of urban congestion is estimated to be a loss of 1% of the eu's gross domestic product. experience shows that there is no single solution to decongesting our cities. alternatives to the private car, such as public transport, walking and cycling, must be made more attractive and safer. carpooling, car sharing, the establishment of a more efficient system of goods transport can help to make the city more fluid. second, cleaner cities through improved energy efficiency, through the use of alternative fuels. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the baltic states, and the commission has also expressed its concern about the situation in the baltic states. the city must also be a smart city. european cities are currently facing a steady increase in demand for transport of goods and passengers. intelligent transport systems and traffic control devices, together with satellite navigation, offer us immense opportunities to improve mobility, if we take advantage of them. the information provided by satellite navigation, now gps and in the future galileo, can be useful for streamlining deliveries in the city. fourth, the city must be more accessible. accessibility, first, for disabled people, for people with reduced mobility, for families with young children. everyone must have access to our cities. it is important that urban planning is effective and well thought out. and, of course, there's also access for suburban citizens, which implies strong links between suburban and urban transport. it is a question of promoting quality public transport and, why not, a charter of rights for urban passengers. and finally, fifth, we need a safer city. i would remind you that two thirds of all road accidents occur in urban areas. one third of the deaths, one in three, occur in urban areas. if we want to save lives, we need to take measures to make behaviours, vehicles, infrastructure safe. we have to consider whether there is no need to promote the ecological dimension of driving in the training of future drivers. and then, in general, we have to ensure that road safety is better respected in europe. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this green paper will enable us to open a wide consultation, until 15 march 2008, with governments, businesses and citizens, with 25 open questions, which are clearly set out in the document. in the autumn of 2008, after participating in these debates, i intend to present an action plan proposing concrete measures, presenting a clear vision of the tasks and responsibilities, and a timetable for action, also taking into account the subsidiarity imperative. of course, in this whole consultation process, the european parliament, your committee on transport must play a major role. in general, i think we can see clearly from this great debate on urban mobility that it is really about the daily lives of our citizens and that if european citizenship has any meaning, it is also towards safer urban mobility, urban mobility that is more in line with environmental requirements, which we must pursue. i would like to thank you, mr president, and the members for all the valuable contributions that you have made to this house, and i will now listen to the few comments that can be made in the presentation of this text, which is a bit brief but, i believe, sufficiently explicit. i would point out that this text will of course be made available to all members of parliament. it has just been adopted by the college, so to speak. i have made all the necessary arrangements so that you may be informed of it as soon as possible.
thank you very much, commissioner. rarely has the debate been so directly relevant, since you have just come from this meeting, and i thank you for having me handed over a copy of this green paper immediately. you know the rule, ladies and gentlemen: we use the catch the eye system.
mr president, i am particularly pleased, commissioner, with the five objectives you have just set out, but as you said afterwards, beyond the consultation, until march, there will be concrete measures. if i may, commissioner, i would like to repeat what we have stressed with the members of our intergroup, namely the need to take into account the integrated approach not only by the agglomerations but also, as you said earlier, by the peri-urban area. in the context of this integrated approach, and given that the european union is providing regional funds - erdf, esf, eafrd, since the eafrd covers rural areas and also the peri-urban area - it seems to us that it will be necessary for you to be able to take account, with your commission counterparts, of these various aspects so that the integrated approach can really be put in place by municipalities and agglomerations. so today i am making a fresh appeal to you to take an integrated approach to this question of urban transport.
mr president, i am as much a supporter of local government as mr jarzembowski is, and i believe that no transport policy can be imposed on an independent local authority elected by universal suffrage. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is a particularly concentrated area of pollution produced by transport, which is known to be the main producer of pollution and greenhouse gases. so i think it is not unreasonable for the european union to take an interest in this, also for heritage reasons. what i think, however, is that there can be no coercive policy. so there could be, commissioner, an incentive policy, and sometimes i like to think that it would be very successful if there were, for example, a community programme, urban transports, that is to say, a programme which encourages local authorities to engage in sustainable mobility on the basis of a specifications for sustainable mobility. i don't know if you can even consider it.
commissioner, you are embarking on an ambitious project which concerns us all. i really hope that in this debate on transport we do not forget the important role that transport plays in territorial cohesion. you talked about accessibility to cities through urban transport. i really hope that in this great debate that is opening up we do not forget to talk about rural areas and, as you said, incentives targeted at local authorities on transport in rural areas, which is often forgotten.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the few areas in which we recognise that the european union can bring real added value to national action is research. that is why we are in favour of the creation of a european institute of technology. we also share the concerns or questions raised by the rapporteur. the future eit must be complementary and not competitive with the actions already undertaken at european level in the field of research and innovation. in particular, it should not be a drain on the already rather modest budget allocated to the seventh framework programme for research and development and should be supplemented by additional funding. given its design, which involves public and private partners, it is in any case desirable that its resources should come significantly from private funds and from the revenues of its own activities. that would be a guarantee of its usefulness and effectiveness. moreover, the european union must give an impetus rather than create a new bureaucratic body at the expense of the european taxpayers. for the same reasons, it seems that the eit label is a better idea than the possibility of the institute issuing its own degrees and diplomas. here too, the european union must be an added value and not a substitute for what exists. the fear of sterile duplication and financial and functional competition with other programmes finally leads us to support evaluation at an earlier stage than the one proposed by the commission, even if the periodicity of subsequent evaluations, extended to seven years, seems to us too long. if our fears are confirmed, the necessary adjustments, even substantial changes to the regulation, should be made quickly, or, even if this is not the european practice, the experiment should simply be terminated.
member of the commission. madam president, i welcome very much the initiative of the committee on foreign affairs and in particular the chairman, mr saryusz-wolski, to propose a report on a common european foreign policy on energy. recent developments have confirmed that this is a very timely initiative. the report serves to underline the growing importance of energy issues in the community context, particularly the external aspects and the importance of the european union speaking with one voice on external energy issues. i appreciate that the report clearly highlights that substantial progress has been made over the past year by the european union and its institutions towards the goal of speaking with one voice. this includes the establishment of the network of energy security correspondents (nesco), in addition to the existing gas coordination group and oil supply group. nesco has been active since the early summer, which has permitted a very useful and early exchange of energy information between member states. however, an earlier exchange of information on planned initiatives by particular member states would still be highly welcome. therefore, as the report underlines, a lot still remains to be done. the call for a suitable treaty basis for energy and energy security is particularly important and timely, as is the call for concrete provisions in the treaties that will lead to the creation of a common european foreign policy on energy. i very much welcome this approach, including the proposal from the committee on industry, research and energy that the principles of the common energy policy be included in the ec treaty at the forthcoming intergovernmental conference, so that there will be a solid basis for joint action in the energy field directed towards third countries. i also note that the committee has reflected further on the proposal on how to anchor external energy policies more firmly both in the commission and the council. we will need to reflect further on this important subject. i believe that this version of the report is also balanced geographically, recognising the importance of enhancing our energy relations not only with our eastern neighbours but also with our mediterranean, middle east, asian and other partners. i already enjoy the genuine energy partnership with the united states but i do believe that we can achieve more in this area. i also believe that we need to continue to work with like-minded energy partners, such as norway, canada and australia, to strengthen the consensus on the value of open, transparent and competitive international energy markets. recognising the value of the energy charter treaty, i agree with the committee that russia’s ratification would be very important. however, at the same time i firmly believe that the principles of the charter also need to be included in a robust energy agreement within the framework of the post-pca agreement with russia. i do have a practical concern about the number of reports that it is suggested that the commission should produce. i know that each of them per se is important but i believe that most of the issues raised will be covered in the framework of the regular review of the energy action plan or are already covered in the commission’s annual reports on the application of competition law. i do, however, favour more involvement by parliament and i will examine the suggestions proposed to my colleagues in the college to determine what, in practical terms, the commission can do to address the concerns raised. finally, with respect to the substance, the commission intends to press ahead with the work in which we are engaged since early last year and which reflects most of the priorities identified in the report, in particular, on the feasibility study to examine the existing legal arrangements in the eu if its neighbours’ energy sectors fall short, and how to strengthen them. equally, it is important to put concrete proposals on the table on reciprocity, and i welcome the fact that your report recognises the importance of reciprocity measures aimed at protecting our internal energy market. this is a very timely report, both politically and also in terms of substance. the commission has been actively working over the past year and a half to reinforce the eu’s external policy on energy and, as the report recognises, there have been a number of significant achievements. however, we do need to go further and i therefore fully support the call in this report for concrete provisions in the treaties that will lead to the creation of a common european foreign policy on energy. with energy security, we are talking about the security of our economies and our way of life. as the eu is becoming increasingly dependent on imports of energy, it is crucial that we have a coherent and focused response to the challenges that this presents, not least in our relations with our major external energy suppliers. this has already been reflected in the commission’s latest package on the internal electricity and gas markets, and i very much welcome your appreciation of the proposal. i can also announce that the commission will be a holding a rapid and in-depth review of the wider aspects of the eu’s external policy in energy and that we will definitely make the results of that work public. i would like to thank the committee on foreign affairs and particularly the chairman, mr saryusz-wolski, for taking this initiative and for giving parliament an opportunity to debate this extremely important issue for europe, and i look forward to continuing our cooperation in the future.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate my colleague and friend jacek saryusz-wolski on the quality of his report. it is time for europe to speak with one voice on energy matters, because we are facing serious threats to security of supply, transit and investment. i regret, however, that paragraph 62 of the report is too emphatic about the total separation of ownership between energy production, transmission and distribution, because there are other solutions to reconcile the establishment of a european energy market with the essential political security we must maintain on the networks. in international trade, it is necessary to require the inclusion of energy-related chapters in any new trade agreement. fair competition must be established at international level, in particular through and under the supervision of the world trade organization. finally, we must support international scientific initiatives such as the iter experimental thermonuclear reactor programme, which brings together, in addition to the european union, many other partner countries in the world.
madam president, thank you to our rapporteur. energy has once again become a geostrategic issue. it is also the european union's achilles' heel. the european union cannot meet its energy needs on its own, so it is struggling to diversify its sources of supply through trade agreements with countries in latin america, africa and eurasia. the recent disagreement between the european union and russia on the energy charter indicates that energy security has entered a new era. in the face of the depletion of oil resources, the continuing danger posed by the atom and the emergence of energy powers such as russia and brazil, it is also essential to reaffirm the european union's policy of sustainable development. and in this sense, a coherent foreign policy will first reflect the objectives set by the spring european council on renewable energies. it will also introduce the principle of energy efficiency in our external relations. it is not enough to demand from others, especially from neighbouring countries, guarantees of a constant supply. there is also a need for effective coordination between the 27 member states. energy security implies a loss of sovereignty over a sector which is now strategically important for europe. the pressure on governments to supply energy must not override our decisions and the principles we have collectively developed. as our previous president of the european parliament reminded president putin, human rights cannot be negotiated on the basis of our energy needs. on the contrary, we must make our supply conditional on respect for human rights.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express my agreement to the voluntary re-cultivation of land which is currently fallow in order to increase european production of cereals and oilseeds, to replenish stocks and thus ensure our self-sufficiency. two production and marketing campaigns, however, seem to be necessary to enable farmers to adapt to this change. it is also important to set quotas on cereals exports, in order to give priority to meeting european needs. i shall be more cautious, however, with the proposal for a measure to abolish import duties on animal feed. i am well aware that the increase in food prices is causing farmers great difficulties, but i would not like this measure to favour too much the import of genetically modified soya and maize. i think it would be good, on the contrary, to encourage and encourage the development of a european feed chain free of gmos, which would also be better able to ensure food security and our independence. i would also like to point out that while the freezing of land has lost its economic justification, it is of major interest for biodiversity and for the protection of soils and watercourses, an interest which must be recognised and maintained. the socialist group therefore asks the commission to carry out an environmental impact study on the effects of the removal of the jackfruit trees. i am thinking in particular of the consequences of the removal of the beehives on the necessary diversity of sources of pollen and nectar for the bees at a time when they are going through a serious crisis. finally, the fact that we are removing the jackrabbits now does not mean that we will solve all the problems that will be at the heart of the cap's balance sheet in 2008 and 2009.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner frattini, ladies and gentlemen, because it is often confused with human tragedy, the question of immigration is a separate political issue. the epp-ed group is aware of the seriousness of this debate and we think of the hundreds of lives sacrificed for the sake of the european dream. respect for life remains paramount when designing our immigration policy. i congratulate our fellow rapporteurs on their work and commissioner frattini on his willingness and political determination. it is our duty to do everything possible to control migration flows. it is the cohesion of our society, our capacity to welcome, our determination to combat racism, intolerance and xenophobia that is at stake. in order to manage immigration, an approach based on respect for human dignity, realism and a sound legal framework is essential. ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about immigration, we must distinguish between asylum seekers, temporary refugees and economic immigrants, who are by far the largest group. in the latter category, it is necessary to distinguish between illegal immigration, for which the european union is responsible, and legal immigration, which is the responsibility of the member states. we are in favour of strict measures against illegal immigration. europe must take responsibility and fight the scourge of the mafia that profits from human misery. we acknowledge that progress has been made: the creation of the frontex agency, the european external borders fund and the creation of rapid border intervention teams. it is still not enough, there are no human, material and financial resources. we are prepared to provide these instruments with the necessary additional resources. but to be effective, member states guarding our borders must operate according to common standards. the choice of a genuine community protocol for the protection of the external borders, supplemented by monitoring, is fundamental. our member states are not all equal in the face of migration flows. let us be careful not to distinguish between the member states which guard our frontiers and the other member states. in the south and east of our union, the task is enormous. solidarity must play its full role here and we must support those of us who are on the front line of massive illegal immigration with technical, logistical and financial means. if the fight against illegal immigration requires resources at the borders, it must also be mobilized within the european territory. between 10 and 15 million people are living in our territory illegally. if the guiding principle of our democracies is the equality of citizens before the law, a policy of systematically returning people who have entered illegally to their country of origin is imperative. the european union must, in the strictest respect for fundamental rights and human dignity, facilitate the return of illegal immigrants. if europe is to remain a refuge for those fleeing persecution, we are opposed to the mass legalisation of illegal immigrants. far from being a solution, it gives the illusion to illegal and aspiring immigrants that they will be legalized sooner or later. these regulations are the main reason why mafia networks of illegal immigration and human trafficking are perpetuated. we welcome the commission's proposal to sanction employers who employ illegal migrants. now, as regards legal immigration, our group believes that the commitment of the country of origin to combat illegal immigration should be a condition in negotiations with third countries. of course, the management of legal immigration is the responsibility of the member states, not the union. however, for greater efficiency and consistency, we need to coordinate our efforts at 27. the possibility of a common procedure for the admission of highly qualified workers or for certain specific skills to the european labour market should be explored. the proposal for a european blue card deserves further study and debate, as does the circular immigration scheme for unskilled workers. ladies and gentlemen, immigration is dependent on a balance between strong social cohesion and openness to others and respect for the rule of law. far from closing our doors, we want to ensure, as other parts of the world do, that applicants for immigration are welcomed and integrated into our society with dignity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest figures from the annual report on eurodac's activities in 2006, the biometric tool used at european level for asylum seekers, show that the number of people who have crossed one of the union's borders illegally has increased by 64% compared to 2005! this appalling increase is further proof, if need be, that europe is powerless to control its external borders and to stem the exponential growth of illegal immigration, particularly from africa. the only relief in this report is that parliament seems to have realised that the mass legalisation of immigrants who have entered the union illegally is not a solution in itself and does not solve the problems. hail to the lord! nevertheless, spain, belgium, france, italy and the netherlands had to resort to this dangerous policy of regularization, inevitably producing a phenomenon known as 'aspiration' and thereby influencing the migration flows of their european neighbours, in order for this minimum awareness to finally take place. let's just be positive about this. this is a start, but in order to combat illegal immigration effectively, there is only one first step that needs to be taken urgently: the reintroduction of controls at the external borders of the union. it is not the frontex gadget, a veritable empty shell with little equipment, few men and, moreover, which does not get the support of some european countries, anxious to preserve their sovereignty in the management of immigration, that will be able to bring europe out of this infernal spiral. europe itself is the origin of this continuous and exponential immigration, by participating in the criminal schengen agreements. tell her to cancel them, and fast!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to have read in the last few days the calls from the socialist group for a debate this morning without demagogy. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i agree with lilli gruber that member states can no longer manage immigration on their own. i agree with moreno sánchez that we want to help the countries of emigration to develop so that people can stay at home. i agree with claudio fava when he says that 'europe must be firm against employers who exploit the workforce without scruples'. there are those who speak violently about immigration and claim that immigrants are the cause of all the ills in their country. they do not share the fundamental values of the european union. fortunately, there are those who are humanely fighting against illegal immigration, which creates modern slavery, and who support legal immigration, which can be an opportunity for our countries economically, culturally and intellectually. we in the european parliament know that there is no good solution which is purely national. the only way forward is a concerted european policy. we did not create frontex to fish for drowning people in southern europe or to recover children who died of hunger and thirst in the east. frontex is not an impassable border, it is a means of preventing the arrival of too many immigrants, which is both human and material. our border management is not technical, it is not warlike, it is political. i'm like you, i'm looking for the most realistic, human solution. the solution, as we all know, is here, around the table in europe, between us and the leaders of the countries of origin. it is up to us to initiate a new and more effective form of co-development, the consequence of which will be an intelligent regulation of migration flows and the peaceful arrival of immigrants to our country. my dear colleagues, immigrants often have no choice in their lives. we have the choice to receive them with interest, dignity and intelligence. it is up to us to succeed where others have, for too long, failed! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we wanted this joint debate because it is impossible today to have a truly effective and coherent european immigration policy if we do not tackle these two issues together at community level. our countries have for several years pursued a restrictive immigration policy. but this policy did not stop the migrants. on the contrary, they continue to come to europe, risking their lives to find better living conditions, and many of them are coming for survival. today, the world is a village. we can never stop those who flee from misery and despair. some people are feeding the fantasy of closing borders, and they are irresponsible! so it is a matter of morality and solidarity, and we must help all countries in distress. that is why i hope that we will not confine this debate to frontex. the european council must explain to us why frontex was forced to stop its operations in the mediterranean in mid-august for lack of operational means. but we must focus on this: how can we enable those who wish to come to europe regularly? we must of course study the possibility of establishing a 'european blue card' which should allow migrants to move freely between europe and the countries of origin, in a transparent and safe manner. it is also important that the commission make a proposal in advance to define a common framework for the rights of migrants. many are exploited in our countries in a scandalous way. we must fully realize that it is becoming urgent for our changing world to allow the countries that still live in poverty to develop harmoniously. it's our duty! everyone must have the right to stay in the country: currently there is no such option! finally, i hope that the member states will respect the mandate of the intergovernmental conference to allow the transition to qualified majority voting and co-decision on legal immigration. i repeat, this is absolutely necessary to conduct a coherent european policy.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, we can finally deal with illegal immigration and so-called legal immigration together: the two coordinated aspects without which no country has really succeeded in its immigration policy to date. right, did the majority of them succeed in causing electoral imbalances that radicalized the problems that really don't need this to be dealt with at the bottom? no member state can now claim to be able to manage its immigration policy on its own, and the tragedy of our european union is that many of our countries have historically, for more than two centuries, been faced with immigration issues, of which they were victims. today we are waving political rags, but now i think we must go to the next level. in an area of free movement, decisions taken in one member state immediately affect neighbours. similarly, since the external borders are now common to all the countries of the union, the member states in the south and east of the union cannot be left alone and helpless to face the massive arrival of migrants, as we have seen in malta, the canary islands, lampedusa, east of the borders and even in the north-west now. solidarity is needed, and what is needed now is real political will, which i do not feel is sufficient in the member states. we cannot develop a genuine european immigration policy unless we put an end to the imbalances in the current treaties: the fight against irregular immigration must be truly community-based and a paralysing unanimity for legal immigration policy is no longer tolerable today. i would therefore like to stress once again the need to provide for qualified majority decision-making in co-decision with the european parliament in the area of legal immigration and integration policy, as stated in the mandate of the intergovernmental conference. this is the only way to respond effectively and democratically to one of the greatest challenges facing the european union.
mr president, when you propose legal channels of immigration, motivated mainly by european economic needs which are rather insensitive to the real needs of the people of the south, you are in fact deciding not so much on the number of migrants to europe as on who among them will be able to enter the territory legally. what about the others? for others, it's still the journey of all dangers. prevention of leaving the country, interception at sea, parallel nets, confinement, rescue or drowning at sea i would like to hear you say and repeat that the duty of rescue at sea is a universal, fundamental duty, in the midst of the case of the seven tunisian fishermen, this is the minimum we can expect forced return, endless wandering in hostile transit countries and serious violation of rights. as commissioner for justice and freedom, respect for the rights of individuals should be your main obsession - as our main obsession - and your powers in this area are great, we know, they are even immense! when chechen nationals are denied access to asylum procedures in slovakia, only to be deported to russia via ukraine, how can you guarantee that they will not be subject to ill-treatment? what is your assessment of the first readmission agreements negotiated by the eu in this area? how can the principle of non-refoulement be guaranteed in these cascading returns? when frontex patrols intercept migrant boats at sea, how do you ensure that people have an effective opportunity to apply for asylum and that these patrols specifically treat minors in their best interests, as required by international law? finally, and in conclusion, can you explain clearly why you do not have a proactive policy to ask member states to ratify the international convention on the rights of migrant workers and their families?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us not talk about the wood! the right of asylum and immigration from the same civilization are not the problem. the question is essentially about extra-civilized immigration, whether legal or illegal, and this is not a chance for anyone. immigration for work commits a double injustice: it steals the skills paid for by the countries of origin and, in the host country, it drives down the labour market and robs the local unemployed of the opportunity for employment. the immigration of welfare has two faults: it uproots the poor, hypnotized by the mirror in the alleys of the western city, and, in the host country, it unbalances the social budgets, which are born and can only last in the narrow and protective framework of the nation. so, contrary to what was written on the walls of the meps' restaurant in brussels a month ago, the european union does not need immigration. on the contrary: europe needs a great family and demographic policy, sovereign cooperation between nations, borders and not frontex, and the world needs to understand, on the one hand, that peace is not immigration but self-centered development and, on the other hand, that true proletarianization is cultural uprooting.
in writing. i supported my colleague reino paasilinna on tuesday 25 september by voting in favour of the creation of the european institute of technology (eit). this report reflects a real desire to move towards a knowledge society. the establishment within the european union of tools to promote the integration of innovation, research and education will ultimately boost the competitiveness of the european economy. the eit will have a steering committee supported by scientific and administrative staff. this committee will designate the knowledge and innovation communities (kics) responsible for implementing the eit's strategic priorities. however, the lack of financial resources mentioned is regrettable. in time, it may be destructive of this promising initiative. everyone must be aware of the urgent need to equip the european union with community projects to ensure its development within the framework of the lisbon strategy.
in writing. when the european commission proposed the creation of a european institute of technology (eit), it was to become a new centre of excellence in higher education, research and innovation. this ambition is confronted by the difficult question of financing, for which no satisfactory and lasting answer has been found. this is extremely worrying because it has undermined the credibility of the eit even before it was created. the idea of the iet issuing an iet label could address the visibility problem facing european research, while providing real recognition to projects whose excellence and quality would be thus labelled. it seems to me that this flexible formula, adapted to european diversity, would stimulate healthy competition between universities and research projects. the other imperative in my view is the association of the private sector with the eit. the role of the public authorities should be limited to promoting and structuring the instruments. the rest should be left to the private sector, whether it be the financing, organisation and operation of the eit. in my view, the eit should not become a new eu agency. despite these reservations, i supported the report to give the eti a chance.
in writing. if european citizens do not vote massively in their country of residence, if the turnout in european elections does not match the ambitions of the eurocrats, it is not because the implementation of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in european elections is made too complex by the obligation to exchange information between member states. it is simply because your bureaucracy and its policies seem to them at best useless or incomprehensible, and at worst harmful, and many citizens who do not reside in their home countries prefer to participate in the election of the deputies of their own country. the report takes advantage of this pseudo-technical simplification to try to allow multiple applications, i.e. the same candidate in several countries, which would be an exorbitant advantage of the ordinary law reserved for foreign residents only, and it tries to circumvent the laws of the member states concerning ineligibility. this is completely unacceptable. we believe that citizenship is inextricably linked to nationality and that the rights it confers, including the right to vote, can only be exercised within the national framework. if a european citizen wants to participate in the democratic life of his host country, he always has one option: naturalisation.
in writing. since 1992, the brussels commission has been telling us that there are mountains of cereals. not to mention oceans of milk and other refrigerators filled. so we had to put the land of europe in a fallow, to prevent production. the southern hemisphere and the usa demanded that the wto have a monopoly on wheat and oilseeds. it should be remembered that, in the context of the uruguay round, with the blair house agreement of 1992, the european commission had agreed to limit our oilseed areas to 5 million hectares. what was meant to happen happened. agriculture is subject to the vagaries of climate. joseph in the bible already explained to pharaoh: drought in australia, the fall in production in ukraine, the ever-increasing demand in china, india, africa cause the price of grain and corn to rise. after financing our farmers so that they do not produce, after having even decoupled production aid from 1993, after having put millions of fertile hectares in the ground, when a third of humanity is hungry, the brussels commission discovers the shortage of cereals, the collapse of stocks. and then we're back on the raft. it will be the same with wine. it's already happening with butter, meat. the scum and malthus are in power.
in writing. the globalisation of trade and the lack of transparency and information on the origin of products marketed in the european union increase the risks of acquiring dangerous, defective or counterfeit goods. the joint resolution on the safety of products, and in particular of toys, which i voted on wednesday, was adopted by almost all the political groups. it is yet another example of the european union's, and in particular the european parliament's, commitment to consumer protection. the resolution stresses the need for greater consumer protection, particularly for children, by emphasising the requirements of safety, reliability of the community trade mark, anti-counterfeiting and traceability. however, the request for better cooperation with the third countries concerned should not obscure the responsibility of the contracting companies, which are responsible for ensuring that the specifications comply with these health and safety requirements.
in writing. parliament's resolution offers little to stop the import of dangerous products, half of which come from china. it focuses on toys, but does not mention clothing with toxic dyes, dangerous medicines, food products with components unsuitable for human consumption, electrical appliances that catch fire, toothpastes with antifreeze, etc. the list is too long. and it is content with small measures, focusing on cooperation or certification, and pointing to the responsibility of the member states rather than that of china, that of european companies rather than that of others. in this case, it's not enough. it is time to take exemplary sanctions against a country which, since joining the wto, has been steadily increasing its dubious trade practices, whether dumping, counterfeiting or forced labour. it is true that the few instruments of trade defence available to the union fall within the competence of mr mandelson, who is rightly criticised for his passivity in this area. so if we end up approving this text, it is because, despite everything, a few petty measures are better than none at all. at least it's a reaction.
in writing. children from vietnam, africa and elsewhere jump on land mines. our children in europe are choking, poisoning themselves, and becoming allergic to barbie dolls and toys. the movie theater had already sounded the alarm with the movie "santa is a piece of garbage". it is up to us members to react. in the name of the precautionary principle and to safeguard the demographic future of our continent already tested by the dangerous games of adults in freedom. it's time to go. yesterday, how many faces, as smooth as a brancusi sculpture, were ravaged by the celluloid dolls that caught fire with the slightest match. toys kill, and the children of darfur don't know how lucky they are to not be able to play with food.
in writing. following the mass withdrawal of chinese toys by the us manufacturer mattel because of their dangerous nature, the european commission is reviewing its legislation on the safety of products, and in particular imported toys. the european regulatory system is certainly sound - rapex, ce marking - but it needs to be strengthened. the european parliament therefore goes further and, in its resolution on the safety of toys, expresses its wish to adopt a common framework for the marketing of products and market surveillance. restoring consumer confidence and protecting the health of our children is a vital condition for me. so, in continuity with the reach regulation for strict control of chemical substances in our consumer goods, i voted today for an unconditional ban on all toxic substances in toys. in supporting amendments nos 8 and 6, i have advocated a total ban on dangerous phthalates in all toys that can be placed in the mouth. the chemical safety of toys is not only a regulatory requirement, it is also hygienic and therefore vital for the safety of our children!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to establish a common foreign energy policy. the solutions must be international and the european union must be able to play a leading role. energy has become a real weapon in international negotiations. since the gas crisis between russia and ukraine in january 2006, the european union has become aware of its fragility in terms of energy supply. the report also calls for the establishment of a european energy agency, which would be responsible for the coordination of the eu's energy policy. the high representative for energy will be a dual-hatted figure, under the authority of the new high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (cfsp) and a vice-president of the european commission. i welcome this progress, which will make it possible to intensify the dialogue with the producing countries - the euro-mediterranean partnership is an example - and with consumers. this will enable the eu to defend its energy security interests in negotiations with external partners.
in writing. by considering that 'the situation of labour markets in the european union is characterised by a demand for legal immigration', mrs grüber, like mr sarkozy in france, intends to give an economic justification to the immigration policies pursued in our states. but the vast majority of the workforce, coming from the developing countries, is unsuited to the jobs our economies need. it should also be remembered that the essence of legal immigration is not immigration of workers but of settlement. this policy, which brings about two million additional immigrants each year, is in effect a colonization of europe. by 2050, the non-european population, which already stands at 40 million, will have tripled. with turkey's entry, europe under brussels would then have 220 million asians and africans from the mostly muslim world. this settlement colonisation is a mortal threat to the christian and humanist values of our civilization. to safeguard the legitimate right of the peoples of europe to self-determination and to remain self-determined, we must re-establish our frontiers, reverse migratory flows and embark on a great family and natalist policy. only a new europe, a 'european' europe, the europe of sovereign nations, could guarantee our right to cultural and historical self-defence.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which offers a balanced and realistic view of the phenomenon of immigration and which has been the subject of a broad consensus, as the rapporteur wished. the report is timely, given the current situation and the fact that member states are trying to adjust their legislation one by one to better cope with migratory flows. in reality, we all know that the scale of migration is greater than the capacity of individual states to deal with it, and that a comprehensive and coherent approach is therefore needed at european level, as the report rightly points out. the text sets out several priorities: the fight against trafficking in human beings, respect for the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms when taking measures against illegal immigration, strengthening cooperation with third countries, the need to be firm in the fight against illegal employment and, finally, the need for a responsible return policy. for these reasons i supported the adoption of this text in the final vote in plenary.
in writing. official figures show that europe is overwhelmed by illegal immigration. it is totally incapable of controlling its external borders. the annual report on eurodac's activities in 2006, the biometric tool used at european level for asylum applications, shows that the number of people registered as having illegally crossed a european border has increased by 64% compared to 2005. the report by mr moreno sánchez considers a number of ways of halting this exponential growth. they are all equally useless, even counterproductive. for example, how can we be satisfied with the idea that encouraging legal immigration, particularly through the 'european blue card', a genuine european work permit for immigrants, will reduce illegal immigration? it's a waste of time. when you open doors for some people, you open them for everyone. what is the use of a biometric database in the fight against illegal immigration? why should we consider more staff and resources for the european border agency, frontex, if the internal and external borders are still not effectively protected by the member states? once again, the european institutions have identified a problem but have proved incapable of solving it, driven by their immigrationist and globalist ideology.
mr president, in a statement today, amnesty international sets the tone for our debate. it says that germany is refusing to request the extradition of the american citizens, members of the cia, suspected of having organized the kidnapping and detention of mr khaled-el-masri and of having tortured him. the judicial system, hampered by a political decision, is thus left without the means to bring to justice alleged violations of fundamental rights committed in the name of fighting terrorism. that is exactly the situation in this debate. mr president-in-office of the council, you are making hypothetical statements to us about the following: 'the fight against terrorism must be carried out with respect for fundamental rights'. we agree! but the debate we have today is that we have facts, now established, that european union member states have been complicit in the cia's secret detention and rendition programme on eu territory and in doing so have violated the law. the facts are in! the question we are asking ourselves is this: what initiatives, what consequences are you going to take, are you going to draw from this situation? when will you, on behalf of the council, clearly condemn these illegal acts? when will you put pressure on the member states of the union to provide accurate, complete information to national parliamentarians, to european parliamentarians? when will you get the member states to give up the diplomatic assurance procedure? i welcome the announcement by commissioner frattini of a report on the effectiveness of counter-terrorism measures and on the respect for fundamental rights. i think the european parliament is very interested in receiving this report and would very much like to discuss it with you. i urge you to do so now.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i welcome this motion for a resolution and the decision it confirms, and i would like to say this: when the brutality of men causes misery and suffering of the magnitude it is in darfur, the duty of solidarity cannot be evaded. i am very pleased that the european union is responding to the appeal of the secretary-general of the united nations. many members of parliament, many diplomats, my friend and colleague mrs gomes just now, have insisted that this operation should in no way be seen as an opportunity to support french interests or to expand french military capabilities in the region. i hope that i do not surprise anyone by insisting, myself, vigorously on this idea. let me say forcefully to the former prime minister that if france is still present in the region, it owes it solely to a heavy historical legacy, where the weight of colonialism was such that it calls for a policy of solidarity with these peoples in an attempt to help them regain stability and peace, and to signify the beginning of effective governance. france no longer has any strategic or economic interest in these regions, and i am one of those who would have preferred it to have left a long time ago: we would have made considerable savings, and that is our real interest. even the uranium resources of niger do not in any way arouse the strategic interest of a royal owner, but only call for sufficient peace so that access to a competitive market is open to all. it is therefore a european peacekeeping operation and not a french one, and that is correct. but be careful! the real confirmation of this vision would be that many of the member states of the union would send troops. it would be harmful if the sense of solidarity, which history has made more demanding in france than in other countries, to the point that our contingent is the largest, were to be turned by your absence into a postcolonial suspicion, which has no meaning and which i reject. one last thing. the oral amendment tabled this morning by our very friendly colleague, mr gahler, is for once - alas for him - irrelevant. the republic of chad, in this case its foreign minister, sent a few days ago its written agreement to the security council on the principle of this operation. i have a photocopy of it here, and i'm keeping it for our friend gahler.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), five motions for resolutions to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 27 september 2007.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the situation in burma.
mr president-in-office, mr lobo antunes, i would like to thank you on behalf of the european parliament for spending the whole day with us. i want you to know that we noticed. i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), six motions for resolutions to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 27 september 2007. (the sitting was suspended at 5.40 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of a european digital library was born of the desire of six heads of state and government of the union to make europe's cultural heritage accessible to all and to ensure its preservation for future generations. this unifying project for europe will strengthen the expression of a genuine european identity and promote the dissemination of our cultural and linguistic diversity throughout the world. this project, unprecedented in europe, combines both the past and the present, the cultural dimension and the digital dimension. it is a perfect response to the challenges posed to our citizens by the new information and communication technologies. the internet, the third favourite medium of young europeans, is one of the main means of accessing knowledge and know-how. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the digital transformation of cultural resources on the union's cultural heritage. to be effective and reach the greatest number of people, initiatives to disseminate and promote our cultural heritage must be coordinated. this is the objective proposed by the european digital library, to which the commission has responded positively through its flagship initiative 'i2010 digital libraries'. the first part of this initiative, the communication of 30 september 2005, focused on three main areas: digitisation, online accessibility and preservation of digital content. the commission analysed in this context the main technical, legal, organisational and financial challenges involved in a project of this scale. at the same time, an online public consultation was launched and a high-level expert group was set up. on the basis of these elements, the commission adopted on 24 august 2006 a recommendation on digitisation, online accessibility and digital preservation, in which it calls on member states to accelerate the pace of digitisation and coordinate their efforts to achieve genuine synergy. on 13 november 2006, the council unanimously endorsed these recommendations. it is now up to the european parliament to send a strong signal in favour of the implementation of this exceptional project. the business is such that it must be done in stages. therefore, while working from the outset on the conceptual and technical organisation of all categories of cultural material, it is necessary to give priority, as a first step, to the potential offered by the textual heritage, free of rights, held by libraries, through a single, direct and multilingual access point. the latter have the advantage of already being coordinated at european level through the tel, the european library, created in 2005 by national libraries and which has a significant amount of digitized public domain works and, therefore, immediately usable. secondly, to promote the success of this tool, the library will also have to provide access to more contemporary works in addition to public domain materials. any such decision will necessarily have to be taken in consultation with all the actors concerned. the protection of the rights of authors and creators is an essential condition for the maintenance and safeguarding of creativity in europe. the project will only be successful if it is based on a coherent economic model. the report proposes that, in agreement with the rights holders, the european digital library should enable the internet user to search for and locate digitised documents, whatever their status, and then to consult public domain works in their entirety, but only short extracts of copyrighted works. furthermore, in order to virtually browse the work or to access the entire protected material, users would be directed to private operators specialising in secure digital distribution, where several options would be offered to them, in return for a fair remuneration of the rightholders. in addition, to enable the library to provide access to reliable and high-quality content for all audiences, it will need to be organised. the report calls for the establishment of a steering committee in which cultural institutions would play a major role. this committee would define priorities and guidelines for the european digital library, while coordinating, managing and monitoring its activities. finally, to give access to all the cultures of europe, other cultural institutions or sectors such as archives, museums, cinema, audiovisual and universities will need to be involved at every stage of the project. this will be the face of europe united in its diversity. in conclusion, i would like to thank all my colleagues on the committee on culture, in particular mr weber and mr graça moura, for their support and contribution to this report. i also thank the commission for its excellent cooperation throughout the preparation of this dossier.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that a subject as often ignored as that of disabled people can be discussed in this parliament, and the fact that this subject is being discussed by almost all the political groups that make up the parliament shows that we believe that no european citizen, whatever the problems that may affect him, should be discriminated against. this is the case for the "dys", which, thanks to increasingly detailed studies, are found to be very numerous, although still too little visible. as the only french member of parliament speaking tonight, i can boast that my country is not the least active in taking account of the problems of the disabled. the activism of parents' associations and professionals has made it possible to organize the first national day, scheduled for 10 october in paris, and has brought the press increasingly attentive to the situation of people, especially children, affected by these disorders. however, the purpose of my question tonight is not to congratulate myself on the positive progress in one or another state, so much work remains to be done, but to ask ourselves collectively how we could share good practice at european level, since some member states do not even recognize the existence of these conditions. it seems to me that the call for the creation of a european multidisciplinary network for specific learning disabilities contained in the written declaration is in line with this. the same applies to the judicious use of community programmes such as the seventh framework programme. in this respect, the initiative you mentioned, commissioner, neurodys, which aims to highlight the cognitive, cerebral and genetic origins of dyslexia and brings together 15 scientific research groups from nine member states - and i would also point out, by the way, that it is important that they cover almost all european languages - is an example here, since it seems to me that in the long run europe should be the world leader in terms of knowledge of these diseases and the collection of biological data on them. but it should also set an example in recognizing the best methods of rehabilitation and therapy that enable children to regain hope and to face life with optimism. does the commission envisage other such programmes in the future? you mentioned, commissioner, a call for tenders which had not been answered. we want, perhaps, to fill this lack of information or motivation with the awareness-raising campaign which is being launched at the moment by the associations and by the members who signed the written declaration. we hope that your willingness to mobilise european funds to meet this expectation will make it possible to tackle, through appropriate research, other 'dys' disorders such as dyspraxia or dysphasia, for example.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the commission welcomes this report on the application of directive 2000/43/ec of 29 june 2000 on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin. the commission takes note of the concerns expressed by parliament on various aspects and would like to draw your attention to the following points. as regards the monitoring of the implementation of the directive by the member states, the commission opened infringement proceedings against 14 member states at the end of june last year for failing to transpose the directive correctly into national law. i should like to point out that a number of member states have already changed their legislation to meet the commission's concerns, or have indicated that they are prepared to do so. as regards detailed information on the transposition of the directive in the member states, as we indicated in our 2005 communication on a framework strategy for non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all, we publish the full report of the legal expert group each year, and the individual national reports are available online. mrs buitenweg rightly points out that equality bodies play a key role in the fight against discrimination. this is why we are financing the equinet network, which brings together the bodies of the member states for the purpose of exchanging experience and good practice. as the report indicates, data collection is a sensitive subject. however, without it it is impossible to assess the extent of discrimination and to know whether the measures taken are effective. since much of the information collected may be personal data revealing the racial or ethnic origin of the person, or even his religious beliefs or sexual life, it should be treated in accordance with the applicable provisions of directive 95/46/ec on data protection. in general, this directive prohibits the processing of sensitive personal data. however, it provides for certain exceptions to this rule, in particular where the data subject has given his or her explicit consent or where the processing is necessary for the purposes of complying with specific labour rights and obligations. in addition, subject to appropriate safeguards, member states may provide for derogations on grounds of important public interest. it is therefore up to the member states to decide whether or not to collect data on ethnic origin in order to produce statistics to combat discrimination, provided that the safeguards required by the data protection directive are in place. the eurobarometer survey on discrimination in the european union showed that, overall, many european citizens were willing to provide personal information anonymously in a census to combat discrimination. three out of four eu citizens would be willing to share personal information relating to their ethnic origin and religion or beliefs. this type of information is particularly important in the context of positive action to address deep-rooted discrimination and disadvantages. in february, the european commission published a european equality data guide to help member states improve data collection. the same eurobarometer survey of january 2007 revealed that citizens did not feel that they knew enough about their rights as victims of discrimination. although the level of awareness varies considerably between, for example, finland, where 65% of the respondents say they know their rights, and austria, where only 17% of the respondents think so, the average rate, which is only 32%, clearly shows, as you have very well pointed out, that awareness activities are still more necessary than ever. i am confident that our current activities, reinforced by the european year of equal opportunities for all in 2007 with some 430 actions at member state level, and the diversity and anti-discrimination campaign will help to fill this knowledge gap. i would like to point out in particular that we are financing training programmes for ngos, trade unions, lawyers and businesses. the commission is determined to use all available instruments to improve the situation of the roma in the european union. this includes ensuring the application of directive 2000/43/ec, making use of the community structural funds, in particular the european social fund, and raising awareness of the rights and obligations of both roma and the general public. a high-level expert advisory group on the social and occupational integration of ethnic minorities, including roma, will present its report and a set of recommendations in early december. the aim of this group is to identify barriers to integration and to highlight good practice in the public sector and in business. in this context, we welcome the european parliament's interest in the issue of multiple discrimination and i am naturally looking forward to hearing the results of a study being carried out for the commission at the end of this year. it is clear that non-discrimination alone is not sufficient to offer equal opportunities to certain groups, which are more disadvantaged than others socially. the commission has therefore commissioned an in-depth analysis of good practice in the member states, especially in the context of employment policy. the commission also considers it very important that the member states apply the legal framework correctly, but it is clear that legislation alone is not enough. we want to complement it with research, awareness-raising, training and the exchange of good practice, so as to prevent discrimination and, where this is not possible, to offer adequate redress to victims.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs buitenweg for the quality of her work. the report is fair and balanced. the most important problems concerning the application of the directive are mentioned exhaustively. it is true that very few of our fellow citizens are clearly aware of their rights in the event of discrimination. as such, it seems absolutely necessary to ensure better dissemination of information to our fellow citizens, especially this year, the european year of equal opportunities. i particularly support the idea of allocating sufficient resources to equality bodies. they play a decisive role in this area and, as the report rightly points out, it is imperative that they remain independent. but the most worrying observation is certainly the non-transposition, or incomplete transposition, of the directive in some member states. we must make every effort to ensure that all member states have the necessary legislation so that everyone, regardless of where he resides, can enjoy the necessary protection. the report makes it clear that the most sensitive aspect of data collection is that it must be done with respect for privacy and for the sole purpose of detecting discrimination against minorities. it is by no means a dangerous diversion towards ethnic profiling, but it is a matter of finally having data that will make it possible to measure the importance of this phenomenon and to provide appropriate solutions. when it comes to a fundamental principle such as equal treatment, europe cannot be satisfied with words, europe cannot be satisfied with a minimum of legislation, europe cannot be satisfied with observing. we have to be careful. but we too must act, we must go forward, and make europe an example in this matter: the more it is, the more irreproachable it will be.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank mrs buitenweg for her excellent work. we fully support his report. recent data unfortunately show that discrimination remains a major current problem in many european countries. the first report of the european agency for fundamental rights, from august 2007, shows that racist crimes are increasing in at least eight eu countries. this is all the more worrying as the european union has very advanced anti-discrimination legislation. however, i agree that it is poorly transposed and incompletely implemented by the member states. european citizens are ill-informed and know, or do not know, that they have the possibility of using this legislation to enforce their rights when they are victims of discrimination. as rapporteur for the european year on equal opportunities for all and the framework decision on racism and xenophobia, i believe that an additional effort must be made by the member states to ensure the proper application of european legislation. it is also necessary to make our texts widely known so that european citizens can take them up. the real progress of this directive on equal treatment is, moreover, the reversal of the burden of proof. we must therefore insist that concrete instruments be put in place to guarantee this progress in all european states. finally, i believe that it is necessary to strengthen the european legal framework for combating discrimination by adopting a horizontal directive covering all the forms of discrimination listed in article 13 of the treaty and, moreover, i would like to ask the commission what progress has been made in this feasibility study for such a directive.
in writing. the report on equality between men and women in 2007 is an opportunity to acknowledge the european union's commitment to women's rights since 1957. however, as recent statistics on the entry of romania and bulgaria tend to show, the situation cannot be satisfactory. firstly, women's access to and participation in the labour market is still too often a utopia. thirty-two years after the council directive on the approximation of pay between men and women, the gap is still too wide, with pay differences of around 15% on average. secondly, gender equality will be achieved through increased efforts to combat exclusion and inequality of treatment, particularly in rural areas, where women working alongside farmers - caring spouses - sometimes suffer serious injustices, in cases of divorce, inheritance or access to property. moreover, they are still not included in the statistical analyses. some texts must be urgently followed by the facts. in this priority fight, the european union's action must also evolve and bring national cultures closer together, through increased awareness and prevention.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report before us today is largely designed to break down the open doors. the figures are the same as those usually given for employment rates, pay gaps and the nature of jobs. it also contains the endless descriptions of the persistence of gender stereotypes and the resulting discrimination in the absence of women in certain sectors of the labour market. i am thinking particularly of high technology, science, research, or engineering. i would like to point out, however, an apparent contradiction in this report. how can one, in paragraph 17, welcome the positive effects of globalisation on women's access to education, care, health and work, whether at home, in subcontracting or in microenterprises, and at the same time point out the negative consequences of the same globalisation, leading to the feminization of poverty, in paragraph 18? what paragraph should be considered? it is also recommended that awareness-raising measures be introduced at european level to ensure zero tolerance for sexist insults. but what is a sexist slur? mrs royal, former candidate for the presidency of the french republic, was she subjected to sexist insults when one of her former socialist comrades said that she was not the best candidate for the highest office? or was it just a criticism, or was it just an opinion? it is dangerous to legislate on this point because this concept is not legally defined, and cannot be. moreover, we are here in a realm which belongs, by its very nature, to the subjective and irrational.
mr president, you did not ask our opinion on this amendment before you put it to the vote. you should have asked if there were any objections.
mr president, i believe that this amendment is unnecessary, since the united nations received a letter from the chadian government on 11 september 2007, of which i have a photocopy, in which it agrees: 'welcomes the new recommendations of the un secretary-general contained in his report of 10 august 2007 for the deployment of an international presence in eastern chad, for the purpose of etc...'. so this amendment is unnecessary. the agreement is written, and anyone can have it. i am very surprised because i sent the text to mr gahler. i therefore propose that we vote against this amendment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my distinguished colleague, marie-hélène descamps, on the creation of a european digital library to make our cultural and scientific heritage accessible to all, in all european languages. as i write these lines, i would like to pay tribute to the former president of the french republic, mr jacques chirac, who, together with five other heads of state of the european union, took the initiative of this project in april 2005. i welcome the strong signal from the european parliament to the european commission to make this project a priority. i also welcome the operational solutions that are open: coordination of all digital libraries in europe, access by citizens, collaboration with the actors in this sector, in particular authors, publishers and booksellers, etc. this tool must be supported and it will be a major instrument in the fight against ignorance and, therefore, in the promotion of democracy, peace and prosperity. good for you marie-hélène descamps!
in writing. i voted in favour of the very good own-initiative report by my czech colleague, mr thomás zatloukal, on the efficiency and fairness of european education and training systems in response to a communication from the european commission. lifelong learning is essential, as is the objective of creating a european qualifications framework for lifelong learning, which facilitates the recognition of the level of knowledge acquired and allows for a transparent and clear transition between different training formulas. i support the idea of introducing a culture of evaluation into vocational education and training systems with reliable estimates. investments in lifelong learning are at the heart of social cohesion and provide people with the necessary skills to better adapt to the various changes that occur in their lives. i support all the proposals in this report concerning the different levels of education: pre-school, primary, secondary, higher and vocational.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's commitment to the deployment of a european force in chad and the central african republic to put an end to violence against civilians and to create the conditions for the voluntary return of hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons. because, today, the conflict in darfur has no borders. but tomorrow, when the un-african union joint force deploys there, the contagion to the neighboring countries could become uncontrollable! that is why this european force is indispensable to the overall security and reconciliation process in the region. but it will only be successful if all parties to the conflict "play the game" of peace. to do so, it must meet at least two conditions which i have stressed in the drafting of this resolution. first, absolute neutrality and impartiality. secondly, a balance in the composition of the forces involved: france must not try to "pull the strings". the attitude of nicolas sarkozy raises doubts about this. i will be particularly vigilant, along with the french socialists in the european parliament, to ensure that the interests of africa and europe prevail over the french 'pré-quad' (pré-square).
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my finnish colleague, mr lasse lehtinen, on the obligations of crossborder service providers. the time has come to encourage the implementation of measures which contribute to the completion of the internal market in services by having a uniform system of obligations for service providers to further promote the development of a homogeneous internal market in services. it is essential that consumers, but also and above all businesses, in particular smes, both as buyers and as sellers of cross-border services, benefit from greater legal certainty, simplicity and cost reduction. i support the idea put forward in the report that there should be no distinction between public and private providers, who should also be covered by the consumer protection directives.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which makes fair and balanced findings and lists exhaustively the major problems concerning the application of the directive. it points out that very few of our citizens have a clear understanding of their rights and calls for better dissemination of information to our citizens. i particularly support the idea of allocating sufficient resources to equality bodies, which play a key role in this area and which rightly need to remain independent. it noted with concern the non-transposition or incomplete transposition of the directive in some member states. the report makes it clear that the most sensitive aspect of data collection is that it must be done with respect for privacy and for the sole purpose of detecting discrimination against minorities. when it comes to a fundamental principle such as equal treatment, europe cannot be satisfied with words, europe cannot be satisfied with minimum legislation, europe cannot be satisfied with observation. that is why i strongly supported the adoption of this text in plenary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like to make a small announcement and ask for your support. as you know, our group had decided to hold an enlarged meeting of the group's executive committee in moscow to discuss the various problems in relations between russia and the european union with various russian actors - both government and opposition. unfortunately, we have learned that the russian government does not issue visas to our employees, so this meeting cannot take place. this came a week after the subcommittee on human rights wanted to hold a similar meeting in moscow and also did not receive visas, so that meeting cannot take place. we find it intolerable that a government which has been described by some heads of state as a pure democracy does not allow us to organise a pure democratic event there in moscow. we ask parliament to criticise this and we ask you, mr president, to support this by a written statement to both the russian ambassador and the russian government. (applause from the centre)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the ppe-de group, i would like to thank mrs wallström and mr lobo antunes for their speeches. the period of reflection and debate to decide on the future governance of our union of 27 is coming to an end. have we matured? are we ready to move from debate to action? last june, mrs merkel was able to combine courage, responsibility and political will. far from avoiding the issues that cause irritation, we have succeeded in reducing differences. the way has finally been opened for the european union to equip itself with the tools needed to operate more efficiently. three months have passed and the portuguese presidency has managed to maintain the course it has followed. if the road map drawn up last june is respected to the end, until the lisbon european council, the portuguese presidency will be able to reach agreement on the reforms of our treaties. i welcome the determination of the portuguese presidency during the work of the intergovernmental conference. the european parliament, and our colleagues brok, barón crespo and duff, whom i warmly thank, believe that the igc's report is in line with expectations and that the mandate given by the heads of state or government has, on the whole, been respected. if we are prepared to accept a balanced compromise, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that it is by default. i think it is more useful to stress the reasons for our support for the draft treaty. firstly, we are convinced that only a united, strong and effective europe can have a say in the affairs of a world which is moving so fast, changing, becoming complex and unstable. we support the draft treaty also because an effective europe of 27 cannot be built on the rules of the treaty of nice. in addition, in the face of the doubts expressed by european citizens, we have called for more democracy and transparency. we are in favour of a clear division of powers, of greater participation by our citizens in the process of building our union and of an active role and strong contribution by national parliaments. the reform of the treaties is the right answer to the expectations of the citizens. the revised treaty is a means, not an end in itself. his form, his name, it doesn't matter. the only thing that counts is its substance and the progress it makes for the citizens of europe. we in the epp-ed group do not want a super-european state. we want nothing but efficiency, democracy, transparency and respect for subsidiarity. we want effective european institutions capable of taking decisions, and if national setbacks are too often a reality, it is up to us to limit their perverse effects to avoid paralysing europe. any attempt to block the decisionmaking process of our union must be rejected. citizens expect europe to act where it is useful: on climate, energy, immigration, innovation, terrorism. i hope and wish that this treaty will enable us to do that and we will support it.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i shall not go back on the overall assessment of our group on the new draft treaty. we are opposed to it, not because of nationalism, my dear martin, nationalism which i despise as much as you, but because none of the substantive criticisms which marked the debates on the former draft constitutional treaty - and i am not talking about the symbols of the union, which were not our problem, but the political orientations of the union - were taken into consideration. i have a feeling this casualness is gonna pay off sooner or later. but for the moment i shall dwell on one specific article in the new draft, which has already been mentioned, article 24 of the treaty on european union, the challenge to which seems to be widely accepted among us, and that is all the better. this is a sensitive issue: the protection of citizens with regard to the processing of personal data. however, the legislative procedure that would apply would not be the same depending on whether such data were processed within the union or transmitted to a third state. in the first case, parliament would have full competence, in the second, it would be completely dismissed. this is a legal monstrosity and a serious denial of democracy. in fact, this is a direct reference to the precedent of the pnr case, where the council agreed to pass confidential passenger data to the us authorities, despite the absolute opposition of the european parliament. the council would therefore like to perpetuate this situation and is providing the means to do so. this is unacceptable and parliament should make this clear to the european council. i would simply add that this case indirectly reveals several facts to which my group has repeatedly drawn attention. first, the little real impact of the charter of fundamental rights. article 8 of the directive explicitly deals with the protection of personal data, which is nevertheless being flagrantly violated and is bound to be so in the future. secondly, the fact that certain key passages in the treaties are almost indecipherable, and that only a very careful reading of them can reveal such pitfalls. finally, the openness of the igc's work, which is the opposite of the public and transparent preparation of a text which is supposed to determine the life and future of a union of 27 countries and half a billion citizens. all this reinforces our twofold democratic demand, that of a large-scale, pluralistic debate in each country on the issues at stake in the treaties and that of ratification by referendum.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, whether to our delight or our indignation, everyone agrees that the treaty to be signed in lisbon is a recycling of the european constitution, which was rejected by two popular referendums in 2005. as a report by the house of commons pointed out yesterday, everything is there: the superiority of european law, even derivative, over national law, even constitutional law, the legal personality of the union, which will allow the commission to replace the states on the international scene, the foreign minister with another name, as well as the largest transfer of powers in the history of european construction, at least forty new subjects and the immense scope of fundamental rights. in this chamber where the word 'democracy' is constantly on the lips, i would like to try to appeal to the conscience of each and every one of you. what sincere democrat would consider it normal to put into effect a text that the people rejected in a referendum? why should the peoples be deprived of their right to have a say in the new treaty and in any new enlargement? what kind of political system do you think you are building by subordinating our democracies a little more to a system characterized by the absence of a separation of powers, of political accountability of governments and of representation of the people, the absence of a single european people? the italian federalist tomaso padoa-schioppa has already answered. i quote him: 'between the two poles of popular consensus and the leadership of a few governments, europe has been built by a method which could be defined as enlightened despotism.' he's right! and the people's no to their enlightened despotism convinced the federalists to go in disguise again. the only difference between the constitutional treaty that was rejected and the one that is coming is that the first one did not lie.
mr president, when it comes to treaties, the devil is not in the details, it is in the ratification. we must remember: denmark 1992, ireland 2001, france and the netherlands 2005 and even sweden for the euro in 2003. we're not immune to a no vote somewhere. of course, each state is in control of its ratification, whether by parliament or referendum, but is it impossible to coordinate everything? i think that bringing ratification together would avoid additional national debates and allow a stronger emergence of european public opinion. i suggest a date, mr president: the first half of may 2008, because it is the half-year that marks the end of the second world war, which marks europe day on 9 may, and this year will be the 60th anniversary of the hague congress, which put europe on the right track and was chaired by winston churchill. for us french people, it is also the election of a great european, françois mitterrand, on 10 may. but if there was a coordination of the ratifications, it would help a little. after all, we have evacuated the symbols of the treaty, but it can be put back in a calendar, symbols. why not put them in dates? because whatever one thinks of the drafting of the treaty - our colleague mr goebbels has been rather harsh on the subject - this stage in european history must nevertheless be reached. so i suggest you listen to this 15! (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the draft amending treaty corresponds precisely to the mandate approved by the 27 last june. it is a direct expression of their political commitment and is intended to help the european union break out of the institutional impasse in which it has found itself for more than ten years. i urge the members of the european council to keep their word and to refrain from raising questions 'out of office' in extremis. the time has now come for the small last-minute arrangements, for the sudden nationalist reactions or for the self-contained reflexes which, by multiplying the complacency derogations, would risk making this new treaty lose all coherence. the adoption of this text must respect the timetable envisaged, with a view to the entry into force of the 'lisbon treaty' on 1 january 2009. we must now concentrate on raising the awareness of our citizens, who are now more demanding, more critical of the european union. they need explanations, and we must give them explanations, and at the same time show ourselves to be educators. it is up to each of us to share our enthusiasm in this new context, which is characterized both by the return of the european spirit and by the imperative of democratic transparency.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are considering today is a response to an invitation from the european council last june. article 9a of the draft treaty provides that the composition of parliament will now be governed by secondary law. it will be a council decision, taken unanimously, on the initiative of parliament and with its assent. the council invites us to anticipate this procedure. he obviously prefers to see us process this hot potato. this is a real political challenge for our parliament. are we capable of designing a reform that applies to ourselves? the last time we were invited to do so was in 2000 and parliament had not succeeded. that is why the vote in the afco committee is already a remarkable political result. we have a large majority: two thirds on the final vote and three quarters on the main point, the numerical distribution of seats among the member states. what's the problem? first of all, the current parliament of 785 members is no longer in conformity with the new legal situation resulting from the amended treaty of nice. this system would apply, on the basis of 736 members, in the absence of a new decision. so far, in the council as in parliament, member states have been divided into categories of countries: super-large, large, medium, small, etc. each category has the same voting rights in the council, the same number of seats in parliament. it's over now! the future treaty introduces two types of innovation in relation to this system. on the one hand, there are figures: a maximum of 750 members, a ceiling of 96 and a floor of 6 seats per member state. it also introduces a principle: between the floor and the ceiling, the member states must be represented in a degressive proportionality, and it is up to us, the parliament, to define this principle today, that is to say, to choose the dose of proportionality and the dose of degressivity, or the degree of overrepresentation of the less populated countries and the degree of underrepresentation of the more populated countries. your committee proposes that this principle be translated as follows: first, the minimum and maximum figures laid down in the treaty must be fully used. in particular, the use of the 750-seat ceiling will allow us to have a small reserve of seats, so to speak, so that we can apply the degressive proportionality without reducing the number of seats for any country. this is a fundamental political choice, absolutely necessary to achieve unanimity in the european council. secondly, the more populous a country is, the more seats it is entitled to, of course. thirdly, the more populated a country is, the more people each mep represents. so at the moment, mr president, a spanish member represents more than 875,000 people, while a german member represents only 832,000. so far, germany has twice the population of spain. this anomaly will be corrected by allocating four additional seats to spain. in total, ten countries are concerned by the proposed increases. we are fully aware that this is only a temporary solution. it would be desirable to arrive at a quasi-mathematical formula, automatically applicable to future enlargements. but the tight deadlines imposed on us did not allow it. the resolution does, however, make recommendations on this point. similarly, we had to use the only population figures available, the eurostat figures, because we could not have the citizens' figures. adrian severin will elaborate on this point. finally, we warn our colleagues against amendments which contradict the fundamental principles of the report and which, depending on the case, would have the effect of giving the large countries an abnormal advantage over the small ones or the small ones over the large ones, in which case all our work would have been for nothing, because in the absence of unanimity in the council, we would be left with the 736 seats of the treaty of nice. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us not have national auctions. we have spent the afternoon proclaiming ourselves the only democratic institution which defends the european interest against the other institutions, above national egos. now is the time to prove that our words are true. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, while the crossing points in the gaza strip are closed and controlled by the israeli army, while there are daily murderous incursions into the strip, while the number of settlers in the occupied territories is constantly increasing, while the construction of the wall and the security grid are being continued in violation of international law, there are still people in this chamber, right here in our european parliament, who deny israel's status as an occupying power. it's amazing! israel is an occupying power and as such has obligations under the geneva conventions and, in particular, israel cannot under any circumstances resort to collective punishment. we would be well advised to ensure that israel meets its obligations, instead of sending catastrophic signals, as we have done, for example, by suspending funding for the fuel supply to the power plant in gaza. the crocodile tears we have shed over the inter-palestinian divisions are unwelcome after the european union has been unable to support abbas's efforts to co-opt the pragmatic wing of hamas. what could be worse than that? playing ramallah against gaza? identify the good palestinians and help them eliminate the bad ones? who can believe in a lasting solution without a guarantee of political and territorial unity for palestine? who can believe that peace for israelis and palestinians will be built by a policy which is in fact radicalising the populations in israel and palestine? the humanitarian situation in gaza violates every standard of human dignity. we must have the blockade of the gaza strip lifted as soon as possible. so we must put the right pressure on israel. this issue can no longer be a taboo and i ask you, council and commission, what measures you intend to take to encourage the lifting of the blockade and to force israel to respect its obligations and commitments. i ask you what you intend to do to ensure that israel, within a month of the international conference, abandons its plan to cut the west bank in two by linking jericho to east jerusalem. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of course the european union must do everything possible to loosen the grip that has locked the people of gaza into an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. for my part, i would like to stress that the designation of gaza by the israeli government as a hostile entity has several dramatic consequences. israel will be able to conduct much larger operations in this territory than in the past. the israeli electricity company will be able to reduce the supply of electricity to gaza's 1.5 million palestinians to a minimum, and mekorot will ration the water it distributes, leaving hamas to distribute it between the neighborhoods. this israeli strategy, which clearly aims to provoke an uprising of the population against hamas officials, is unacceptable and can only lead to a further escalation of violence. i'm going to talk about the new settlements that will make palestine a new bantustan. but i would like the european union, as a member of the quartet, to be assured that the peace conference scheduled for november is not just a way out for the united states of the impasse in iraq and afghanistan, but a genuine peace summit involving all the arab players.
member of the commission. madam president, on the question put by the honourable member, mr groote, concerning co2 emissions: i would like to underline the fact that emissions coming from vessels in connection with maritime transport in absolute terms are lower than in other categories like air transport and even road. however, on an individual basis, it is true that the co2 emissions coming from individual vessels are significant. therefore, it makes sense that action is taken and that the shipping industry is encouraged to take the necessary action in order to reduce co2 if we want to maximise the potential for growth with regard to maritime transport – because there is no doubt that there is enormous potential to grow further with regard to maritime transport, but this has to be in conjunction with a reduction in co2 emissions if we want to bring about a situation which makes maritime transport even appear to be much more consumer friendly. to do this, it is important to underline the fact that, since we are dealing with a global industry, initiatives should be taken first and foremost on the international front. therefore, there should be an international effort and the european union would be prepared to take the lead, within the international maritime organisation, in order to set standards with regard to co2 emissions. in the absence of progress, the commission would consider other options in order to bring about a situation whereby co2 emissions are effectively reduced. one can also mention the fact that there are cases where, because of the existing discrepancies, there is, in a way, an incentive to increase co2 emissions. for example, in berthing, since there is taxation for the use of electricity in a port, many vessels end up leaving their engines running in order to save on costs because there is duty exemption on fuel. therefore, if there is a measure whereby this discrepancy is removed, then there would be an incentive for vessels to make use of the electricity grid imports. concerning the question raised by mr matsakis concerning the embargo of turkey on cyprus, i would like first of all to underline the fact that, with regard to accession negotiations for turkey, one or two of the chapters that have not been opened and will not be opened until turkey remedies, relate to transport and fisheries, which is my area of responsibility. therefore, we are doing our utmost in order to convince turkey to reconsider its position. obviously, we are looking into this in order to see how one can work closer with turkey, in order for it to apply – and also in preparation for its eventual accession – the community acquis on suchlike measures. i would also like to say that with regard to the question raised by mr stevenson concerning spatial planning and who will pay for spatial planning, what we are proposing is not that there would be a communitisation of spatial planning, but that spatial planning should be the responsibility and the function of the member states. however, we would like to see and encourage member states that have not adopted the spatial planning system to introduce it as other member states have done. we can quote examples of spatial planning that have been introduced by certain member states as examples of this practice for other member states to follow. we will try to see that there is a certain congruency of the spatial planning measures that are introduced by different member states so that we do not end up with the situation with regimes which are significantly different from one another. so we will incentivise the formation of spatial planning systems; we will help build the necessary tools in order to be able to operate spatial planning in a more effective way and we will try to set guidelines in order to establish a common pattern for spatial planning, but it is ultimately the responsibility and the function of member states to introduce spatial planning with regard to their own waters.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i can only welcome the european commission's intention to bring together in an integrated policy what were previously separate and sometimes somewhat incoherent sectoral policies. i welcome the emphasis on the sustainable use of resources, the desire to develop maritime know-how, to promote sustainable employment and to maximise the quality of life of coastal populations. all of this is in the right direction. the future maritime policy should better integrate the specificities of the outermost regions and their strengths. the outermost regions benefit from preserved fisheries resources. that's something to consider. but more importantly, these regions could be a real laboratory and a place for experimentation and development of marine renewable energies that is absolutely formidable. will the commission take advantage of the exceptional territories of the outermost regions which make up the european union?
madam president, i would of course like to congratulate commissioner borg on the work he has done. he concluded by saying believe and trust, and i wanted to think straight away of believe and dare, which was once a very beautiful motto. believe and dare! you have dared. i think that the vision you have developed in a particularly clear way in the communication which has been given to us is, of course, in the right direction. i would like to ask a question which was nevertheless a matter of concern to the fisheries sector in this case. the implementation of integrated coastal management will of course take part of its appropriations from the european fisheries fund. the concern would be that this european fund, which we have already had many reasons to complain about as being insufficient, would be implemented on its own. i would like the commissioner to reassure us on this point and to confirm that the structural funds, of course, the funds needed for development and environmental protection, will also contribute to the implementation of this policy.
in writing. with this 'blue book', the european union is taking a step forward. although it is regrettable that on some points - such as the question of european coastguards or a european flag - the european commission has had to reduce its ambitions because of the lack of support from some member states, this document is a good starting point. so i hope he keeps all his promises. the question of financing will nevertheless be decisive, as the commission itself acknowledges. will our ministers take responsibility? i am particularly pleased with the commission's decision to tackle the revision of social legislation in the maritime sector, where conventional labour law and its protections are often not applicable. it 's about time . this determining factor in the attractiveness of maritime careers should therefore help europe to preserve its maritime know-how.
mr president, i would like to draw parliament's attention to the problem of kosovo and, in particular, to the need for the european parliament to be able to guarantee this internal european matter once again and to ensure that the right of peoples to self-determination can be respected. many political elements are emerging and causing pressure to be exerted to achieve the partition of kosovo, which is not a response. we see this clearly, in particular, in relation to the problems connected with the palestinian territory and the division of that territory in 1946. we must therefore work hard with the european parliament to prevent partition, to prevent conflict from being generated and to allow the peoples to determine their own destiny, with the aim that the european parliament can be present both on the european scene and throughout our territory.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the first objective of this regulation, which is to comply with the obligation to publish information on the beneficiaries of community funds, i think it is quite normal to finally know who receives how much of the cap. it is a welcome step, even if it is not a question of stigmatising farmers, but rather of making financing transparent, something which concerns us all as taxpayers and as consumers and about which we have a right to information. i think this publication can be very useful and improve the public's perception of farmers and the compensation they receive for services to the community in terms of providing quality food with high production standards and in terms of maintaining land and landscapes, for example. the publication, as requested by the committee on agriculture, of an explanatory statement of payments made and of agricultural income will also be very useful. i fully agree with the practical arrangements for this publication, as set out in the report by our colleague, mr chatzimarkakis, which consists in the setting up of a european internet platform, bringing together the national websites on which the names of the beneficiaries of regional aid and their municipality of residence are posted. in the case of a public limited company or a limited liability company, the names of the investors and members of the management committee must also be known. i also support the evaluations requested of the european commission in the years following the implementation of this regulation, which will be very useful, the assessment of the relevance of centralised publication of information at commission level, as well as the evaluation of the distribution of funds, if appropriate, of legislative proposals to establish a more objective distribution of funds under the first and second pillars. on the other hand, as regards the modalities of access to this data, i strongly disagree with the proposals for confidentiality or barriers to entry which, in my view, would reduce the scope of this regulation on transparency completely. as long as we are working on transparency, which is moreover publicly funded, i believe that everyone should have access to information without constraint. in practice, since the data are first published at the level of each member state and then taken up at community level, it also seems almost impossible to set up a recording system and, moreover, thirteen member states have already made these data public without any restrictions. i therefore ask you to reject in whole or in part amendments nos 4, 20, 21 and 23, which call for the registration of the identity and motivation of the users of published data. as regards the second objective - the tool for reducing and suspending agricultural payments when certain key elements of a national control system are missing or ineffective - i think this is a useful tool for the european commission. but it must of course be used according to the nature, duration and gravity of the offences. in the same spirit, the percentage of reduction is reduced if the member state has attempted to partially address the deficiencies and increased if it has not applied the recommendations already made to it. i also want to maintain the requirement for member states to inform the commission of how they decide or intend to reuse funds cancelled in cases of irregularities.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, there is a shortage of cereals, there is a shortage of milk, the price of maize and butter is soaring, and what are we doing? we discuss how to put the cow, sheep or hectare premiums online and when the world goes hungry, we play like teenagers organizing agricultural and financial emails online. of course, there are good reasons: transparency, the right to know and control what is done with the billions paid to farmers. but in a democracy, the control is exercised by the parliament in the hemicycle, not by the netizens on the web. secondly, if transparency applies to agricultural credit, why not also, in the context of populism, transparency on the remuneration of the community's senior civil servants? if we can put the suckling cow bonus online, why not the suckling senior official bonus? so there is a first injustice. there's a second one. small farmers will be transparent, but large agribusinesses will not be transparent. the aim of this regulation is not transparency. it's a diabolical war machine, with two hidden objectives. first, divide the peasants into big and small and break their union unity. secondly, and most importantly, to stir up public opinion against the peasants through the press, and especially the british press, which will point out to us the bonuses of prince charles, queen elizabeth, trade union leaders, large farmers, perhaps even the husband of mrs fischer boel, a pig farmer. from these few examples of big landowners fed hormones from brussels, public opinion will be led to believe that the farmers are being drugged, especially since public opinion does not know that the farmer is being paid against his will, because he is forbidden to produce. we're forcing him to the pound. thus, once public opinion is warmed up against farmers paid not to produce, with decoupling , in 2013, without political and electoral risk, we can remove the aid and recover some twenty billion euros to finance other non-agricultural activities. under the guise of democratic transparency, this regulation is a moral disgrace which uses the odious sources of envy and jealousy, which have served the commission's strategic plan since the 1980s. the end of export-oriented agriculture in the context of a global agreement: agriculture in the southern hemisphere, financial, banking and energy services in the northern hemisphere. that's the truth of this rule!
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i must thank mr staes for this own-initiative report and the european parliament for its support of these issues and finding solutions to these difficult issues. in my statement i will speak first about the community transit system, for which my colleague lázló kovács has responsibility. the european parliament applauds the successful introduction of the new computerised transit system. it is indeed an enormous change compared to the archaic paper-based procedure. full implementation of the upgraded system will take place by 1 july 2009. risk management is a modern control tool. the commission is actively implementing the customs risk management framework to better target the checks. we are currently establishing criteria, priorities and the it platform with the member states. the new system will also provide for the possibility of regular monitoring of the effectiveness of the risk analysis made. the planned development of the anti-fraud transit information system will strengthen the capacity to analyse and counter risks in transit fraud, first with regard to sensitive goods and later for all kinds of goods in transit. this is conditional on member states granting wider access for the commission to the ncts movement data. however, freezing further financing for the ncts, as proposed in the report, would be counterproductive to the necessary further development of more effective transit control. a few words on value added tax fraud. in its report, the united kingdom’s house of lords pointed to many factors behind the phenomenon of missing trader fraud. however, we do not see any proof that weaknesses of the transit system led to carousel fraud. i would like to clarify that, even though transit was not a priority during traditional own-resources inspections between 2001 and 2006 when change was ongoing, nevertheless it was not being ignored. as a result of many inspections, payments of own resources and interest were demanded. this approach represents efficient use of the commission’s inspection resources and avoids falling back on ex ante audits. i would like to turn now to the anti-fraud agreement with philip morris international, which comes under my portfolio. i must thank the parliament for its continued strong support. the commission has consistently stated that it hopes that the agreement can serve as a model for similar agreements with other companies. with regard to the funds coming from this agreement, the new hercule programme has received in greece funding devoted to combating cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting, which are newly added objectives. we are considering whether the programme could be used to fund the establishment of a laboratory which would verify the authenticity of cigarettes. but i must also say – and mr staes knows this very well – that the distribution of money was a real nightmare and it will be a nightmare in the next financial periods as well. of course i am very happy about the support and the constant interest expressed by parliament in the use of this money because i am also interested in having this money used for the purpose of fighting cigarette smuggling and other kinds of fraud. with regard to seizure statistics, most member states inform the commission of the amounts on a quarterly basis. however, not all member states indicate the brands they have seized and there is therefore no complete data available. moreover, the notifications of seizures by the member states do not always differentiate between genuine and counterfeit cigarettes, partly because it is not necessary for the purposes of the prosecution of offenders and the collection of duties and taxes and partly because it is sometimes extremely difficult to distinguish between counterfeit and genuine cigarettes. we continue to encourage the member states to provide more complete figures. finally, the commission is willing to prepare an olaf report on this topic, as suggested by parliament, but i consider that it would more beneficial to wait until 2010 for a comprehensive overview. this is due to the fact that many significant changes are in the pipeline in the customs area and a report in 2008 could only be an interim one, reflecting the state of play at that point in time.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bart staes, who has been able to finalise an excellent report on the difficult subject of the imperfections of our community transit system. i also thank the european court of auditors, which in its report of december 2006 clearly highlighted the scale of the problem. i regret that in this case the consequences of the philip morris agreement, which, it should be remembered, is an agreement ending legal proceedings and not a partnership agreement, are being confused with the serious problems of community transit. that is the meaning of the amendment i tabled on behalf of the epp group, which is intended to avoid confusion. as regards the tobacco industry, i propose that the european union, together with the tobacco industry as a whole, co-finance a programme to combat smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes. but i would like to focus my remarks on the imperfections of our community transit system. the european commission tells us that it has strengthened the customs transit system by introducing a modern and robust computerised system. it fails to take account of the fact that, although a computer system is necessary, it is never sufficient and that, in fact, the system itself is imperfect. it is imperfect because it is conducted under the authority of the member states, that is to say, as our rapporteur and the european court of auditors rightly point out, the member states are applying the new community transit rules with serious weaknesses. as far back as 1997, our parliament commissioned a committee of inquiry which made it clear that the union must set up a framework for customs services so that they can function as one. we're a long way from that. in 2005, our colleague herbert bösch, in an excellent report, clearly highlighted the scale of malfunctioning and the need to combat fraud and errors. in fact, ladies and gentlemen, this report calls for a much broader reflection on the quality of our customs system, our financial circuits and, more generally, the protection of the financial interests of the european union. you have the full support of the members of parliament in this respect, commissioner.
the commission's vice-president thank you, mr president. i obviously listened very carefully to what was said. i would first like to thank mrs jensen very much for her report, which i have seen has very wide support in this parliament. we shall take advantage of your comments, mrs jensen, of your wishes, which i find very interesting. i would add that, as a number of speakers have said, air transport is developing at a rapid pace and although it is conceivable that in some cases high-speed rail transport will take over market shares, air transport will nevertheless remain, for the future, a transport in evolution and i believe that this is the case. we must therefore support this growth in air transport and make it more and more adapted to the needs and wishes of users. i would like to say that the whole problem of better adapting airport infrastructure to needs rests on three pillars. the first pillar is, of course, infrastructure. i cannot of course allow it to be said, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a matter of centralisation. it is not a question of centralising, it is a question of coordinating, it is a question of exchanging good practice. i believe that all this is absolutely essential for all the citizens of our member states and that we must therefore try to optimise the use of existing infrastructure before considering new investments. we need better coordination and i thank the various committees which have spoken on this matter, mr president: the committee on economic affairs, the committee on employment, the committee on regional development and the committee on civil liberties. i believe that all of this brings some extremely valuable insights into this report. the first pillar is infrastructure. the second pillar, as mrs inés ayala has rightly pointed out, is the use of satellite navigation technologies and the modernisation of air traffic control, which is absolutely essential. if we have functional air traffic control groups, we can indeed hope to reduce these delays, these planes that circle the sky and cannot land. this is a second pillar which is very important. the third pillar is the port services, which must be efficient and effective. on these three pillars, we must try to optimise the reception of air transport, which is in full development. i will answer a few questions, mr president, and i apologize for not answering all the questions. i want to answer mr. bradbourn's question about the data. the labels: their use is limited to the terminal area, there is no data recording and, above all, the use of these labels is in full compliance with the common rules on the protection of personal data. it is not a question of creating an exception to these rules. on your committee on regional development, mr janowski, it is obvious that the large hubs will not be able to expand indefinitely. better use of existing capacities is needed. the role of regional airports will be strengthened. you have rightly emphasized the importance of the links between airports and their regions and the inter-territorial links, in particular through a number of rapid means of communication, including railways. i have indeed been asked by some of you about the stopover attendance. of course, we cannot commit ourselves today, as mr jarzembowski has pointed out, to a new directive on stopover services, as we do not yet have the impact analysis, and we prefer to concentrate on the application of the existing directive. so we are concentrating on monitoring the correct application of the existing directive. as regards the new member states, we have asked for precise information, airport by airport, on the number of providers, their independence from the airport, the conditions for awarding contracts and, if we are not satisfied with the answers, we can always initiate infringement proceedings, which must be launched in that case. i would also point out that if we were to amend this directive on stopover services, we would be very attentive to the social effects that a change in the rules could have. there was also a reference to the need for power - this is your committee on economic affairs - on the possibility of making better use of infrastructure at night, with quieter aircraft. i'd be tempted to say yes, but in the medium to long term. we're not there yet. i would like to conclude with the environmental problems, because, as soon as air traffic develops, we must of course do everything possible to ensure that this does not interfere with our imperative to combat global warming. that is why europe has been a little ahead in advocating the idea of bringing air transport into the emissions trading system. we are also very attentive to the problems that may arise in connection with airport infrastructure, particularly in terms of nuisance to local residents and noise. mr president, such a rich debate does not allow me to give answers to everything, but as a number of speakers have pointed out, it is clear that mrs jensen's report is a very good basis and will allow us to make progress. i shall be following parliament's requests carefully, since i am anxious to be able to give appropriate answers. i am glad, however, that this work has been carried out in close consultation with parliament for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the voting time in a few moments. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to apologize to myself and to my colleagues for the inexperience with which i have asked this question: i am only in my third term in this parliament. if i understand correctly, amendment no 1 would, if it were adopted, retain the wording of the paragraph in the amendment and also delete the figures corresponding to the number of seats in the report. is that how i'm supposed to understand it? i turn to the authors of the amendment: does everyone understand it that way? so i made a mistake, and i ask those concerned to forgive me. when i was preparing the epp voting list, i recommended a yes vote, because i thought the amendment concerned only the text. but as soon as it also concerns figures, the epp's instruction is to vote freely and i invite, together with my co-rapporteur, all those who wish to support the proposals of the afco and the rapporteurs to vote against amendment no 1. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted in favour of the chatzimarkakis report which aims to improve the transparency and budgetary implementation of the cap, i.e. to identify the beneficiaries of agricultural aid. in my view, the legitimacy of the cap, which is one of the largest items of eu expenditure, is too often called into question by the lack of transparency in the management of agricultural aid. this report has the merit of clarifying the situation. i welcome the publication on the internet of all national lists of beneficiaries of european direct aid, as well as the links that will be established between the commission's web pages and the paying agencies of the member states. but this control of cap funding must be carried out in strict compliance with data protection rules. that is why i voted against the amendments to require the registration of users who would access this data, on the grounds that transparency should be ensured on both sides. i also support the fact that the data on payments from the eafrd should be broken down so that the main areas for which payments are made can be identified.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my friends alain lamassoure and adrian severin on the composition of the european parliament. everyone knew that the current composition, as laid down in the 2005 act of accession of bulgaria and romania, had to be amended, except to return to the provisions of the treaty of nice. i welcome the work of bringing together his political family, led by alain lamassoure, and i regret that certain national positions, which are not in line with the council's decisions, have required heavy debates and, finally, the arbitration of the plenary. this debate has helped to highlight the extent of national egoism. while i am reserved about the idea of examining the possibility of electing some of the members of the european parliament from transnational lists, i welcome annex 2 to the resolution which provides that the intergovernmental conference will have to ask the european parliament for a draft to allow the election of its members by direct universal suffrage which more precisely defines the concept of 'citizens' referred to in article 9a (2) of the treaty on european union. the concept of european citizenship needs to be clarified.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lamassoure report on the distribution of seats in the european parliament after the 2009 general elections. this new distribution balances the number of seats according to the evolution of the population of the member states. i welcome the fact that france has two additional members compared to what the revised treaty of nice provided for. i also support the idea that this new distribution should be revised well before the start of the 2014-2019 parliamentary term, in order to establish an objective and fair distribution system within the european parliament, taking into account demographic changes, which will avoid the traditional bargaining between member states.
in writing. how can a report be submitted to the representatives of the member states which uses legal and institutional concepts that are at the same time vague, new, dangerous and utopian? the declining proportionality principle, which is a key element of the report, means nothing other than that the large states will once again lose seats to the small ones. it is true that mr chirac, at the nice european council, initiated the process by accepting for the first time france's withdrawal from germany, which was contrary to the spirit of the treaties. as for electing meps from transnational lists, the aim is clear: to eliminate politically incorrect political parties which do not accept the soft social democratic consensus and to remove all reference to what still belongs to the royal domain of nation states. of course, we cannot accept that. finally, the notion of european citizenship put forward by the rapporteurs is both dangerous and utopian and, in the end, totalitarian. it implies that nationality is a thing of the past and that the bright future lies in a new, "denationalized" man, cut off from his roots, his history and his culture. for all these reasons, we consider the lamassoure report to be an unacceptable legal, political and institutional regression.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the humanitarian situation in gaza. concerned about the deterioration of health indicators in palestine and aware of the difficulties inherent in the closure of border checkpoints, which has disrupted economic activity and the free movement of goods, i ask that emergency aid and humanitarian aid be allowed to continue without hindrance. i denounce the increasingly difficult living conditions in gaza: the blockade preventing the movement of people and goods, the partial privatization of access to water, food and electricity, the destruction of agricultural land, basic services such as waste collection that no longer work properly, on the verge of rupture. i believe that there is an urgent need for full respect for human rights in the area and i call for the organization of an international peace conference to establish a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians, based on the relevant un security council resolutions, on israel's right to live within secure and recognized borders and on the palestinians' right to a viable state.
in writing. i would like to welcome the european parliament's resolution on the gaza strip. the israeli government's move to declare the gaza strip a 'hostile entity' opens the way for economic sanctions. the measure comes as the population of the gaza strip is facing a humanitarian crisis, aggravated by the suspension of direct international aid to the palestinian authority and israel's failure to return taxes owed to the palestinian authority since march 2006. although israeli authorities have allowed trucks carrying food to enter gaza, the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east reports a shortage of basic food items due to the frequent closures of the karni crossing. we would not be facing a humanitarian crisis of this magnitude if we had not, in the first place, withdrawn our aid to the palestinian people. many actors have maintained their cooperation with palestine, and i am thinking in particular of many local authorities in europe. should we not review our policy of sanctions against palestine so that it does not impede the provision of the most essential humanitarian aid to the local population?
madam president, they are being killed because they are women. these murders, known as femicides, have their origins in a social context influenced by the patriarchal mentality that prevents women from becoming socially autonomous. the very balanced report by mr romeva, although it deals more specifically with femicide in latin america and mexico, is part of a global strategy to eradicate and prevent the violent deaths of women worldwide. and that is why i voted for it, because the european union has to promote and defend the values of gender equality. i had focused my amendments, which were also taken up by the rapporteur, on support for the families of victims who are often unemployed and who are painfully confronted, moreover, with the impunity of these crimes. i therefore encourage the strengthening of gender awareness and training programmes and the creation of effective protection systems for witnesses, victims and their families, as well as psychological support and free legal assistance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my spanish colleague raül romeva i rueda on the murder of women (feminicides) in central america and mexico and the role of the european union. i regret that we focused on the countries of central america and mexico because there are many places in the world where the issue of women's murders is not resolved. i support any comprehensive strategy aimed at the global eradication of violence against women. the suffering of women cannot be ignored and we must support them, because their revolt will be the source of many geopolitical developments in favour of the ideals of the european union, including gender equality.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask mr pöttering: do you still have a vote in this parliament?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have spoken about this in the conference of presidents and we have said: in view of the eu summit with russia, in view of mr putin's visit to iran, in view of the reality of the conflicts taking place there, it is absurd that this parliament is debating and not adopting a resolution setting out parliament's position. who are we? we always want to be involved in decision-making, and when we can decide, we say: 'no, we do not want to decide now.' we are in favour of a resolution before the eu-russia summit and, if necessary, a resolution after the eu-russia summit. it is the role of parliament to monitor the commission and to formulate policy guidelines, not simply to be a debating club.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not there is no doubt that pakistan is a very important issue. but it is too important to make it a point of urgency on thursday afternoon. it is not just about human rights violations, but about the eu's real foreign policy approaches in this whole region. i think we should decide to put pakistan on the next agenda rather than a proper debate with the council and the commission, because i think that is the most important thing. the issue of uzbekistan is of a direct nature. the council is today proposing to lift certain sanctions. i think that in the current situation, what is happening in uzbekistan is a human rights issue that suggests that sanctions will not be lifted. that can be decided quickly on thursday afternoon. pakistan is a very difficult and serious foreign policy issue and that should be on the next agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 october the michelin group announced that it would stop producing tyres from toul. more than 800 jobs could disappear by 2009, although neither the industrial nor the financial results of the company allow these redundancies to be attributed to any crisis. shareholders sell shares, make capital gains on the announcement of this restructuring and women and men learn that they will be the only ones to suffer from the situation. i want to say to this house how much i respect the trade union representatives and the employees who, despite their desperation, have shown a great deal of responsibility from the start. the question is not how to humanely close a business, but how to maintain employment in areas that are sometimes affected by disasters. the workers of toul expect europe to put in place protective and organizational frameworks guaranteeing the social rights of workers, allowing for their return to employment, the mobilisation of compensation funds for the revival of industrial projects. it is flexicurity that we european socialists are calling for, but we must also encourage adaptation to industrial competitiveness and we must also think about promoting an integrated industrial policy so that all our territories which are currently affected by restructuring can benefit from it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united nations has set the deadline of 10 december for the determination of the future status of kosovo. but between the kosovar authorities threatening to unilaterally proclaim independence, serbia advocating extended autonomy and russia's veto of the un special envoy's independence proposal, the situation is critical. i would like to stress the fundamental role that the european union must play in resolving this crisis. we have a collective ambition to have a high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy. what credibility would such an approach have if we were unable to contribute to a specific solution to the situation in kosovo, which is officially a matter outside the union but is in reality an internal matter? it must therefore indicate a direction, a clear vision, a synthesis and compromise between serbian and kosovar demands, while being careful not to open pandora's box with the partition solution, and express itself on the future of kosovo in order to be heard in the concert of nations.
mr president, i take the liberty of speaking because i have difficulty in understanding. i have participated in the discussions in the committee on the environment on these various reports, but i have the impression that the report which mrs klass has presented to us is not the report which was voted unanimously by the committee but rather her personal position. so i wanted to know if there was indeed a more objective presentation of the position of the committee on the environment on this very important report.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, this is an important, complex and difficult issue we are debating today. the fight against predators and enemies of crops is a key issue, both in terms of food security and in protecting and improving our environment. the use of pesticides in a responsible manner is still essential in this respect. it is, however, essential to make a proper assessment of the risks, of their use, particularly in terms of human health, and to define the ways of the planned reduction of their use. the draft resolution on the thematic strategy to be followed in this area, in my view, responds well to the essential questions that we have to answer, and i would like to pay tribute to our rapporteur, mrs belohorská, and also to say that we have had a very good collaboration on this text. a few remarks: the central problem of risk management cannot be separated from that of the quantities of pesticides used. the eradication of toxic or most dangerous substances must be a fundamental principle. for other pesticides, subsidiarity must apply. it is up to the member states to define their own objectives, timetables and national criteria for reducing the quantities used, on the basis of a common community framework. the national action plans will also allow adaptation to the specific conditions of each country. the protection of the aquatic environment is also a very important subject and must be strictly ensured by the delimitation of buffer zones according to local conditions. i would like to conclude by saying that the system we want to implement is in continuity and consistency with the reach directive. and i would sum up the debate in one sentence: "as little pesticide as possible, as much as necessary".
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, although several member states have already started to take measures to reduce the risks associated with pesticides, the trends in pesticide use vary from one member state to another. for example, certain substances, which are prohibited in some member states, are nevertheless present on their markets, in particular because they are authorised in another member state. it is therefore appropriate to harmonise the rules applicable in this area in order to ensure uniform conditions throughout the european union. the alde group is in favour of strict control of pesticides, but taking into account the fact that the use of pesticides is a necessity and a reality. we have some amendments to make the text more applicable, keeping a principle of promoting safer and non-chemical alternatives. my group wants the objectives of reducing the volumes used to focus on dangerous substances. we wanted to co-sign an amendment on article 4 on national action plans which sets a target of reducing the frequency of application at community level by 20% within ten years and the rates for dangerous substances by 50% by 2013. paradoxically, some would say, my group has tabled an amendment to the same article 4, which gives member states the option of opting for a risk-based approach to reduction. in fact, this risk reduction approach is more in line with reality but less easy to calculate than a volume reduction approach. we have tabled this amendment because we want the discussions between the institutions, which will follow the vote at first reading, to also deal with this question. i should now like to address a few specific points. as regards the protection of water bodies, it seems more consistent to use appropriate actions, depending on the geological environment, rather than to set a minimum distance for buffer zones. it seems legitimate to want to protect specific areas of life, such as parks, kindergartens, school grounds, because in the vicinity of these areas, the use of pesticides should be limited to the minimum necessary or even prohibited, and priority should be given to non-chemical methods. the commission's proposal on the highly sensitive issue of aerial spraying made a lot of sense: a ban in principle with justified exceptions. nevertheless, the text of the committee on the environment is acceptable. while i understand the need for public information on pesticide spraying, i think it should be left to the authorities in the member states to define the quality, quantity and channel of dissemination of information. we are faced with a diversity of territories and approaches which i do not think it is credible to want to standardize. the alde group therefore wants to achieve the following balance: not to penalize any user or industrial actor, but to develop strict, coherent legislation, allowing users to protect their crops, producers to sell less and less harmful products and the public to consume healthy products but also to live in a healthy environment.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioners, while i would like to congratulate mrs breyer on her excellent report, i cannot follow the defence of pesticides made elsewhere because it is absolutely essential to rid our environment and our bodies of dangerous pesticides. i hope that tomorrow the european parliament will support the most ambitious positions and not give in to the latest industrial sirens in the name of a deadly economy. removing pesticides that are carcinogenic, mutagenic and reproductive toxic, as well as substances that degrade our nervous and endocrine systems and those that damage our immune systems, is entirely beneficial. we also welcome the efforts of our colleagues to ensure that consumers who are 'innocent' victims of dangerous substances receive transparent information. i would say that it is time to act, commissioners. today, insecticides, fungicides, and other herbicides are used more systematically than ever before. in france alone, the co-management, if i may use the expression, of public policy on pesticides between the state and the chemical industry has, up to now, marginalised citizens' expectations in the field of public health and the environment, in defiance of ecotoxicological studies, to the detriment of statistical research, when they establish links between chemical substances and pathologies, without regard for the recent warnings from the medical profession - and i am thinking in particular of the so-called paris or grenelle call for the environment in france. industry is working to minimize the impact of pesticides. but after the pollution of water by the herbicide atrazin, which everyone knows, and the spread of bee populations, the chemical industry is trying to make us forget that france is still the biggest user of the european union. every year, 70,000 to 80,000 tonnes of pesticides are dumped into our environment in france. so, on the pesticide package, and unlike reach, the parliamentarians will not be discredited. citizens' demands have not wavered, as evidenced by the large number of letters we receive in droves asking us to act quickly and strongly. while some point to the dangers of inhaling pesticides sprayed on wetlands, such as in southern france, others are concerned about the spread of herbicides in public gardens, even calling for pesticide-free zones.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, all the health and environmental data, which i shall not mention here tonight but which we have today, must lead this house to firm decisions on the reduction of pesticides and the conditions under which they are used. it is essential to have quantified reduction targets. the discussions before the vote in plenary revealed wide disparities between member states in both their practice and their political approach, which ultimately led to compromises in favour of subsidiarity. i hope, therefore, that we will not be deceived by this subsidiarity which will bring flexibility, which would in fact be a pretext for political dissent and which would be a minimal interpretation of the political and civic will that is being expressed today, particularly on the issues of exposure of populations at risk and the distances of buffer zones along watercourses. subsidiarity in pesticides, if it is to make sense, must serve a more global reflection on agricultural and environmental issues at the level of each european region. this requires intensified research and technology transfer, involving all stakeholders, farmers, researchers, ngos, health professionals and the agri-food industry, and conducting in-depth work in each territory to jointly define best practices and non-chemical alternatives adapted to the soil, climate and crops. this is already being done in a few regions. i therefore propose that the commission should encourage the introduction of such an approach and also facilitate the exchange of experience between regions, while monitoring the proper application of community legislation.
madam president, so they are now everywhere these pesticide residues: in the food, in the water, in the air, in our tissues, in breast milk, they are also - and this is probably the most worrying - in the bodies of our children before they are even born. we are only beginning to see the disturbing long-term consequences of the ubiquitous presence of pesticide residues: cancer, endocrine disruption, decreased male fertility, weakened immune defenses, neurodegenerative diseases. so yes to reduction, yes to reduction and, to make a quick point, i fully support the proposals made by my colleague, mrs hennicot, on the breyer report and, to save time, i will stress a point which i consider to be fundamental and which is also being debated in the epp: the issue of information for the people living on the banks. it seems to me unreasonable that part of our group recommends that no information be given to the local population on the treatment of certain areas with pesticides on the grounds that if the substances have been approved before, they are not harmful. aerial spraying of pesticides is common, particularly in forestry and viticulture. they present a risk of drift of substances to populated or sensitive areas and their use must therefore be strictly controlled. it is essential that neighbours potentially exposed are warned by the farmer before spraying. people with respiratory diseases, such as asthma, could be severely affected without prior information. the vehicle and the medium for this information will not necessarily impose an additional administrative burden, as some of my colleagues have said. simple signs indicating spraying dates near homes in the risk areas may be sufficient. finally, i am in favour of a new generation of agricultural practices which are environmentally friendly and thus contribute to the modernisation of the agricultural sector.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the nobel prize has been awarded to mr gore, who has sounded the alarm, and the european union now has an urgent need to act because, i remind you, this is not a new case. there was a voluntary agreement that the manufacturers had committed to 140 g co2 per kilometer in 2008, and that agreement was not kept. i would remind you that the european parliament itself set the target of 120 g for 2005 and, at the latest, for 2010. there is no reason for us to shrink back from these goals today. and so we need an ambitious, clear and binding directive as soon as possible. it should focus on giving objectives in two stages. first, in the short term. in the short term, the target is 120 g co2 for new cars and 10 g for complementary measures. but we must move quickly and we therefore support the vote in the committee on the environment which called for the target to be reached by 2012 and for binding targets to be set as early as 2009 so that by 2012 all vehicles, all the targets, will be reached. secondly, we believe it is essential to set a target for 2020: 95 g for 2020, 70 g for 2025, with an intermediate deadline in 2016 to take stock. so we support this ambitious road map of the environment committee, because we believe that it both gives visibility to standards and imposes the technological gap without which we will not be able to achieve the kyoto protocol. yes, of course, it's going to be expensive and it poses an arbitrage problem on the price of vehicles. first of all, it should be noted that not all cars and manufacturers have been equally effective in the voluntary agreement. yes, small cars must be favoured over big cars and we must find taxation, practices, even prohibition in some cases, which prevent these big vehicles, 4x4s and others, especially in urban environments, from polluting our cities all day long and producing a large amount of co2. this is all the more important as the profit margins of the manufacturers are all the stronger as they produce a lot of large vehicles. we must therefore orient the market in such a way that manufacturers who make small cars that pollute less are more profitable than those who make large cars that pollute more, and we expect the commission, beyond the standards, to propose strategies to this end. finally, i would like to stress the importance of providing consumers with good information so that they can see clearly in this picture and, in particular, that false advertising is exposed. that is why my group has tabled an amendment requiring that the energy-efficiency a-g label be affixed to every vehicle so that every consumer can have an environmentally friendly practice.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur is right when he points out that conventional energy will remain indispensable for a few decades to come. it is also right to call for diversification of energy sources and supplies, safer and more environmentally friendly production and more efficient use of energy. we are more skeptical, however, about motives. first, because much of the advertising is a repetition of the myth of global warming due to man-made carbon dioxide emissions. however, more and more scientists are questioning not climate change - the climate has always been in constant change - but global warming, the responsibility of co2 in this change and its anthropogenic origin. the famous csc technology, co2 capture and storage, which occupies a large place in the report but whose long-term risks are not well known, appears in these conditions as a kind of gadget. secondly, despite the usual circumstances of the primary responsibility of the states for their energy choices, the rapporteur cannot help but want to give them guidance. i am thinking of the place given to nuclear energy in his report, which remains a highly sovereign choice of each member state and which cannot be considered solely from the point of view of co2 emissions. finally, at no point is globalization mentioned as a factor in the overconsumption of fossil fuels. it is not unusual in this respect to favour international trade in goods at the expense of short supply chains, both local and national. what the commission has been doing for years, through its ultra-liberal trade policy and opening up our markets to world competition, by refusing any protection of our economies, for whatever reason, is contributing very largely to creating the problems it now claims to want to solve.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr reul's report is a very good report, it is very comprehensive. i commend him. however, i am surprised at the place given to coal in this report. coal is a plentiful source of energy. it is also the most widespread fossil fuel in the world. but i am concerned about its increasingly prominent role in electricity generation. it seems that with co2 capture and storage technology, the greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants would be solved. i have to admit i'm a little skeptical. with coal-fired power plants flourishing around the world, is it possible to equip co2 capture plants everywhere? how can we stop co2 emissions with clean coal plants? after the age of wood energy, after the age of coal, then the age of oil, are we not in danger of returning to the age of coal? to conclude on a more optimistic note, i would say that the highlight of this report is the proposal for a european strategic plan for energy technologies. this plan should take into account the necessary diversification of energy sources by 2020, 2030, 2050 and the importance of regional resource use.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2005, the commission, with the support of the council and parliament, started a process of reforming the statistical governance of the european union, with the aim of strengthening the independence, integrity and accountability of the national statistical institutes of all the member states of the union and, of course, of eurostat the european statistical agency. the first element of this process was the adoption, in may 2005, of a code of good practice for european statistics. the implementation of this code has resulted in closer cooperation between eurostat and the national statistical institutes and improved reliability of the statistical data collected for many purposes, but i would like to refer in particular to one objective which has been discussed here over the years, namely the excessive government deficit procedure. in proposing the code of practice, the commission also recommended that the self-regulatory approach be balanced with the establishment of a notification system to monitor compliance with the code. in this context, the idea of creating an external advisory body to contribute an independent and authoritative opinion to the effective application of the code of good practice throughout the european statistical system was born. the commission also pointed to the need to reform the functioning and composition of the european statistical information advisory committee in the economic and social fields, in order to make it more efficient and to enable it to play a more strategic role. the ecofin council and, in general, the national statistical authorities, welcomed both recommendations and the commission put them into practice in a double proposal in october last year, proposals which we are discussing today with the prospect - i hope that it will be confirmed if you think so - of being adopted at first reading. i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mrs bowles and mrs van den burg, on their efforts and on the quality of their reports. this process of strengthening european statistical governance is completed by a new commission proposal, adopted on 16 october - just a few days ago - for the revision of the regulation governing the production of european statistics. this proposal is also subject to the co-decision procedure of parliament and the council and we shall therefore have occasion to discuss it again here in the coming months. with this set of initiatives, the union will have a modern, reliable and efficient european statistical system capable of improving citizens' confidence in official statistical data. i am referring again to the debates we have had in this house on numerous occasions in recent years about the importance of having reliable budgetary data, or reliable data on the rest of national public accounts, gdp, etc., or the need for a price index which is absolutely reliable by the citizens. in the light of the reports we are discussing tonight, let me simply say that, from our point of view, it would have been preferable to have respected the institutional balance more closely, as we believe our initial proposal did, with regard to the appointment of the members of the advisory committee on european statistical governance and the preparation and transmission of the reports of that committee. in any case, the commission recognizes that the amendments to the original proposals have undoubted value, have the support of the council and parliament, and do not alter the essential content of our original proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur, the committee on economic and monetary affairs, for the excellent work they have done and for the constant support they have given to the commission in its efforts to update our statistical system and make it more reliable and more robust.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the improvement of the european statistical system is part of the broader context of the union's economic governance and in particular of the adaptation of the stability and growth pact. i share the concern expressed by both the commission and the member states to improve the quality of statistical data. i believe that the classification of the excessive deficit depends in particular on the reliability of the data. if this is not the case, the stability and growth pact as a whole is weakened. the flexibility introduced in the implementation of the pact by the reform adopted by the european council in march 2005 requires, in return, that the figures be unquestionable and verifiable. this reliability is also important in the current context of the enlargement of the euro area. it is worth learning from the past! the european union has already been forced to revise the statistics on the budget deficit and debt of a member state; the number of member states applying to join the euro area is increasing, and the number of statistical data to be processed and the number of contacts will increase. the proposed improvement of the european statistical system aims to address legitimate concerns raised about the validity and control of data provided by member states. it is necessary to avoid that suspicion undermines the overall statistical system and the ability of eurostat to check the validity of the budgetary data reported by the member states. that is why i support the reform which leads, on the one hand, to the creation of a european advisory committee on community statistical information policy and, on the other hand, to the creation of a european advisory council on statistical governance, which will be able to play an active role in monitoring the implementation of the code of good practice by the european statistical system as a whole. i naturally support the proposals of our two excellent rapporteurs.
i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. mr president, i fully support mr swoboda, because we were not aware of this. so we have nothing prepared for this week, for this resolution. our group was not aware of this, nor was the pse group, and we ask you to postpone the vote until the next part-session.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur for the quality of her work and the efforts she has made to produce a text which, unfortunately, does not seem to satisfy her completely. taxation is clearly an indispensable complement to the construction of a genuine internal market if it is to be conceived as something more than a simple free trade area in which all forms of fiscal and social dumping would be permitted. the completion of the internal market therefore requires the harmonization of certain tax rules and calls, in the first place, for the creation of a common consolidated corporate tax base. the report before us today opens the door to this and i welcome it. i note that a number of colleagues are very much against this project in the name of what they call fair competition. i think that free and undistorted competition - and i am not a frantic advocate of such competition - requires a certain amount of transparency in the rules of the game. and i am surprised that countries which, in the name of solidarity, have benefited from considerable contributions from the european union are now refusing this step which, in terms of solidarity, competition and transparency, would be an important step forward. taxation is also a formidable tool which the union must use to implement the strategies it has in hand, because it does not have so many tools. it can have a positive impact on cleaner energy or to achieve ...
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president of the council, mr sócrates, mr president of the commission, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my satisfaction and that of my group here. satisfaction with the result achieved last thursday in lisbon, satisfaction with the path started by angela merkel and followed by mr sócrates. by acquiring the institutional tools necessary for its functioning, europe is finally equipped to meet the major challenges of the 21st century. that was our wish. we have therefore supported this text from the very beginning of its preparation, even though, as you know, most of us would have preferred an even more ambitious text. this treaty has been criticized in some quarters. for my part, i welcome today this lisbon agreement, which is the signal for a new european dynamism. simplified, reforming or reformed, amended or modifying, the name is irrelevant. it's not the box that matters, it's what's in the box. the treaty will be formally signed in lisbon on 13 december. it's a very good day, the number 13 has always brought me luck. look at my number, i was born on the 13th, so that's very good. it will then have to be ratified by all member states before the european elections in 2009. some have already said that this process would start the day after the lisbon treaty is signed, and i welcome that. i would like to say to the heads of state or government of the european union that it is important that this treaty should be the basis of a european project based on genuine citizenship. the institutions and the member states must do this by explaining, then explaining, and then explaining again. what does that mean? this means giving substance to the provisions of the treaty which concern the democratic life of the union. the citizens' initiative and the association of national parliaments, that means informing on the content of the charter of fundamental rights, which enshrines the essential rights of european citizens. but it also means better explaining to our citizens who the elected representatives of this parliament, which will be 751 in 2009, are and what they do. explain how qualified majority voting, which will become the rule, will enable europe to act in new areas such as judicial and police cooperation, environmental protection, economic policy and immigration. we also want to explain to our international partners that a high representative for the common foreign and security policy, vice-president of the european commission from 1 january 2009, will be their preferred interlocutor, as will the president of the council, who will be elected for two and a half years and who will facilitate cohesion and consensus within the european union so that it can finally speak with one voice. if the lisbon treaty promises the european union to be more democratic, more transparent, more efficient and capable of asserting itself on the international scene as a political entity in its own right, it is first of all its citizens who will have to be told this. the treaty will finally enable europe to move from debate to action. it will be able to initiate the deep reforms needed to combat crime and terrorist threats effectively. it will also be able to assert itself as a world leader in the fight against global warming. my dear colleagues, in relation to our international partners and on such important issues, we can no longer afford to fall into fruitless divisions. the path started in berlin, which has now made a stop in lisbon and will pass through ljubljana and paris, is a step in the right direction, because it lays the foundations for european policies that are finally homogeneous, policies that must aim above all at the protection, the welfare and the prosperity of the citizens, who are asking even more of europe, as our polish friends have shown us by their massive voting. for them and for everyone else, let's live up to expectations.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, general de gaulle said of valéry giscard d'estaing: 'his problem is the people'. the formula would apply rather well today to the european council. the 27 have once again proved to be quite adept at negotiating at the summit. the list of concessions granted to all the recalcitrants at the prévert is worth mentioning. this price has been agreed by everyone, from the heirs of the founding fathers of the community to the most inveterate eurosceptics. there are only two or three things that seem untouchable, and no one in the european council has even thought of touching them. for example, the binding framework within which the union's economic and social policies must be integrated: the open market economy with free competition, the issuance of the european central bank, the guidelines of the stability pact, strict respect for the free movement of capital, the gradual elimination of all that investors consider to be barriers to trade, or the concentration of essential powers in the institutions, inaccessible to citizens, national parliaments and even governments themselves, especially in countries with a more modest weight, or the dimension taken in the union's external policy by the military aspects. these are red lines, as they say in english, which the eu's ruling circles say should not be crossed. the problem is that these are precisely the points on which the majority of the questions or criticisms of our respective peoples are based, and it is the persistent lack of answers to these questions, the repeated refusal to listen to these criticisms that are fuelling the crisis of confidence in the union among our fellow citizens. if the members of the european council had opened the windows of their conference rooms on 18 october, they would have been able to measure firsthand the strength of this disaffection expressed in the streets of lisbon by the most powerful demonstration that portugal has seen in the last twenty years, and i do not think that mr sócrates or mr barroso will deny me on this point. the union's supreme challenge - as the commission's lisbon summit communication shows - is to explain to citizens what the european union means to europeans. always explaining, never paying attention. there is always communication, never contradictory debate and therefore, all the more so, no referendum. the problem of the european council is the people, but without the people there is no future for a great european ambition. does this not deserve to be discussed openly? i'm asking you.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two and a half years after the french and dutch rejected the european constitution, the european council adopted in lisbon on 19 october the simplified and amending treaty, misnamed because it has been made more complex and amends the constitution, which was only marginally rejected. in short, they want us to mistake jars for lanterns and to believe that this text has nothing to do with the previous one, in order to avoid confronting the peoples of europe by means of a referendum. the matter is too serious, you seem to say, to be left to the peoples. well, we think exactly the opposite. since this text is a copy/paste of the european constitution, it deserves that each country holds a referendum on ratification, starting with france and holland. only a referendum can overturn what someone else has decided. i am launching today, without any partisanship, a major petition in my own country for the president of the french republic, the initiator of the european mini-treaty, to reverse his position by proposing a referendum. the future of our respective nations, their sovereignty, their independence, their identity and their freedom are at stake. we cannot, for example, entrust a high representative with the responsibility of representing us abroad, any more than we can have our seat on the united nations security council called into question on behalf of the union's legal personality. or else let our legal and legislative body be dismantled by the judges of luxembourg. those who are complicit in such a denial of democracy would bear a heavy responsibility before history!
mr president, the european union is about to have a new treaty. so we can of course express some regrets: regrets at the omission of the union's symbols in the text; regrets at the derogations obtained by some, particularly derogations on the charter; i am sorry, finally, about the complexity of the treaty, and i would also like to see a consolidated text of it so that the citizens of europe can try to find their way around it. that would be nice. but he's not stopping me! this treaty will give us the means to revive europe, if we want to. the text will provide the union with the tools to pursue its integration, broaden and deepen its common policies. europe can now make progress in energy, climate change, immigration policy, the fight against terrorism, economic coordination, foreign and defence policy and development policy. it will simply be a matter of political will. but no one can use the absence of institutional means as an excuse for not acting. now everyone will have to face up to his responsibilities and when i say that, i am thinking in particular, besides our institutions, of the member states in particular. and that is good news for europe and i hope it is good news for its citizens.
mr president, as the spokesman for the majority party in france, the ump, i congratulate the portuguese presidency and welcome this agreement on the text of the treaty. it gives the greater europe the efficient and democratic rules of operation it needs. as co-rapporteur on the new composition of the european parliament, i am also pleased that the council has agreed to the proposal voted by our parliament on 11 october. the council thus validated our definition of degressive proportionality, the translation of this principle into figures, the use of eurostat figures to assess the populations to be taken into account and the desire to find a more stable system after 2009. this council agreement is more than an agreement at 100%, it is an agreement at 101%, since the council adds a seat to italy without specifying the reason. this leads me to two points. first remark - you said so, mr president - all members of parliament will retain the right to vote, even the president, even the 73rd italian, contrary to a persistent rumor spread by some of the press. secondly, the 73rd seat, allocated to italy, is a derogation from the principle of degressive proportionality enshrined in the treaty proposed by parliament and accepted by the council. it will therefore be necessary to ensure that the decision to apply article 9 (a) is unassailable before the court of justice and it is in this spirit that the rapporteurs will propose to parliament a revised draft taking into account the wishes of the european council.
mr president, 'nothing is possible without people, nothing is sustainable without institutions'. it's jean monnet, and it applies very well to our situation. so, is the treaty perfect? of course not! but here again, it is jean monnet who answers. as for the treaty of rome, i read: 'i did not ask myself whether the treaty could be better. it was all possible at the time and all in the wisdom of the age". from 1957 to 2007. are we taking the risk of doing it again? no, of course not. there will be no third treaty. one crisis is enough. two is too many. and jean monnet replied: 'i have always thought that europe would be made in crises and would be the sum of the solutions to these crises.' that's the meaning of the treaty. so, obviously, not everyone agrees with that, because our british friends like to opt out. i live on a peninsula, so i understand island people. but jean monnet had it in 1951 for coal and steel. they didn't want to, they were offered it, and then they came. you remember tony blair. he signed the maastricht social protocol. we'll find a british comrade to sign the bill of rights one of these days. let us be patient, and i quote a chinese diplomat who once said: 'i admire the wise slowness of european construction.' let's keep going. i would like to conclude by congratulating the portuguese presidency, and as a french member of parliament i am proud of my portuguese presidency and the circumstances demand that today we have two for the price of one!
in writing. my first words will be to congratulate the heads of state or government on the historic lisbon agreement they have reached, which puts an end to many years of institutional uncertainty. i commend the hard work of the president of the french republic, nicolas sarkozy, with his audacity, wisdom and pragmatism, and the very good german presidency of angela merkel in the first half of 2007, which put the institutional agenda on track. i would like to add to these congratulations the recognition of the excellent and immense work done by president valéry giscard d'estaing. the agreement takes up the major political advances of the old text: a stable presidency for the union, a head of european diplomacy, a new voting mechanism with the extension of qualified majority voting, while strengthening the powers of the european parliament. i regret the abandonment of the union's symbols (flag, anthem, currency). this treaty also takes account of the messages of the french and dutch peoples who rejected the old treaty, by no longer retaining the constitutional character of the original text and by not establishing, at the level of the union's treaties, a set of european public policies which will be part of the normal functioning of european democracy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i do not know how strict the communication is within the major groups. we have always said that we wanted a resolution - that has been communicated to the secretaries-general. and we said, if you vote against it, we will do so in the vote on monday morning, as is our right. we've always said that, and if that's not passed on to you, it's not our problem, it's your problem. in russia, for example, a new law against extremists has been passed in recent weeks, which clearly restricts freedom of the press and freedom of expression. we therefore want the resolution to be adopted before the summit so that the eu can use it to state our position on the situation in russia. we can still draw up a resolution on the results after the summit, but this parliament, which wants to be political, should also adopt a political opinion by a majority before the summit, to show the great russia what we think of freedom and democracy here in the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
mr president, on the entry of the reports on fisheries, i do not know whether it is an error of the interpreter, but you said that it would be with debate, entry on thursday morning. it's not up for debate. okay, so i think that was a misinterpretation.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. mr president, it is now two o'clock in the afternoon and we must stop the vote. what i regret, what i regret, is that a report like this comes to the plenary. i propose that next time we work on it more closely in committee and that in future, on the draft reform of parliament, on the draft reform of parliament, we review these rules; it's not possible to work like this anymore. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i think my colleague is quite right, but he must say that it was his group which did not respect the work of the committee and which returned all the amendments here today. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion on water quality, i was able to note that pesticides were involved in the degradation of the environment, especially surface and coastal waters, because they are persistent over time, can be transported over long distances, and that it was also a diffuse pollution, difficult to identify, resulting from runoff, direct losses in the soil and in the air, the washing of plants by rain... more broadly, the current use of pesticides in our agriculture can have harmful consequences for our health. the commission's legislative proposals on the use of pesticides, on the authorization and marketing procedures were therefore eagerly awaited. however, i think the targets are not enough and that is why i unsuccessfully supported in parliament's plenary the position adopted by the environment committee calling for a community target of reducing the frequency of pesticide use by 25% over 5 years and 50% over 10 years and 10 m buffer zones between fields and watercourses. i regret this, especially since this is a first reading and the text is still in danger of being weakened.
in writing. historically used to protect plants against various pests, pesticides have dramatically transformed agriculture. however, it is now clear that the widespread use of these pesticides in agricultural and non-agricultural environments has a negative impact on the environment (pollution of water, air, soil, etc.) and also on health (development of certain cancers, reproductive disorders). in response, the eu has decided to amend its legislation to encourage the reduction of pesticide use. in particular, in the context of the breyer report on the placing on the market and sustainable use of pesticides, i voted in favour of the establishment of strict criteria for all toxic substances (neurotoxic, bioaccumulative, carcinogenic, etc.). similarly, in continuity with the french national pesticides plan and reach, i have also advocated a 50% reduction by 2013 of pesticides of very high concern and the replacement of the most dangerous substances by safer substitutes (including non-chemical ones). finally, in keeping with the spirit of the french environmental grenelle, i voted in favour of a tax on pesticides which would encourage our farmers to reduce their consumption of pesticide products.
in writing. i voted in favour of the klass and breyer reports on the use of pesticides because they mark progress towards a better consideration of the environmental and health impact of the use of plant protection products. i particularly welcome the adoption of the socialist proposal to ban the use of pesticides in populated or sensitive areas. i also welcome the adoption of our proposals on the systematic promotion of non-chemical techniques. i regret, however, that the european right has opposed the introduction of quantified targets for reducing the use of these products. however, many examples show that reduction is possible and that a strategy of gradual reduction could have been implemented without endangering industry and employment. once again, the right wing will have preferred profits... but small steps count, and these reports are one step in the right direction, towards sustainable agriculture of tomorrow and a healthier environment for our children.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the whole budget team for the work they have done, especially our two rapporteurs, mr virrankoski and mr itälä. this budgetary procedure confirms the tightness of the multiannual financial framework. the amount of less than eur 130 billion, or 0.99% of gdp, in payments is very limited and cannot keep pace with the expectations of development of european policy. the work of our committee as a collegiate body makes it possible to maintain the budgetary priorities of the political groups, but the financial framework prohibits the revival of the growth policies promised to the european citizens. our committee has paid particular attention to the choices made by all the parliamentary committees, but the proliferation of pilot projects is evidence of frustration at the narrowness of this financial framework. once again we have had to fight against the drastic cuts in the council and i am happy with the compromise we have reached. the commission will still have to implement this budget properly. we cannot tolerate any more the distortion of this draft budget which results in too many non-executions and transfer of appropriations back to the member states. firstly, we do not accept the non-consumption of the cohesion funds in the 2008 budget. in the socialist party we have reinstated the terrible cuts in the council which affected programmes such as culture 2007, media 2007, youth in action. i do not need to remind you of the importance of these lines at the moment when the new treaty is being proposed to the people of europe. i would ask the council to consider this matter. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment. we are also proposing additional funds for certain new projects, to improve the capacity of accommodation for refugees or for ngos fighting discrimination. it is essential that the european budget continues to help those who are fighting against the scourges that afflict our european society. in the union's external relations, we are cutting cfsp expenditure by 40 million because we have to honour our commitments and the union's commitments: to preserve the emergency aid reserve, to help the most deprived countries, to support the global fund to fight aids, the global health fund and to support development aid. the eu's external relations are also important for the eu's external relations. it is also regrettable that heading 4 is systematically underfunded. the world's poverty is growing and our budget is shrinking. for the european commission, i admit that the reserve of 40 million euros is severe but it corresponds to the doubts we have about the effectiveness of the implementation of the abm. let me give you a few examples: firstly, the non-spending of the cohesion funds, the inability to implement pilot projects which are very dear to us, such as erasmus apprentices, the lack of transparency in the choice of study centres, the poor implementation of the competitions for the selection of new civil servants. the list is long and parliament wants to be convinced of the goodwill of the european executive. finally, the main one, the amendment with the asterisk, calls for galileo and the eit to be financed beyond the ceilings of the financial perspective. this requires, compels a mini-revision of the financial perspective. parliament cannot accept the endangerment of galileo, a major technological, economic and political issue, a strategic tool indispensable to the political powers and independence of the union, but i am sure of the value of angela merkel's words in this house. on 29 june, the chancellor used this african proverb to close her presidency: "if you want to go fast, go alone, but if you want to go far, then you have to go together".
mr president, i shall concentrate on the report by our italian colleague, who has done a good job. we know that it is always very difficult to define the budget of our institution. i have only one real regret: the 2008 budget has something very special. this is the last budget where we could have a strong fund to invest in, particularly in the housing policy of our parliament. we have 32 workplaces, if you count all the offices we have in the different capitals. we have only six of the places where we work in the various countries, apart from brussels and strasbourg. so we know that we have a purchasing policy which is regularly requested by the court of auditors and which we will not be able to implement because mr itälä - i understand his concern to send a signal that we are not spending all the money by wanting to remain imperatively below the 20% ceiling - prevents parliament from injecting funds and building up a legacy. now, that was 2008 or never, because in 2009, you know, by paying for membership, you couldn't do that anymore. but apart from that, i have to say that mr itälä did a very good job. it is one of the greenest budgets i know, because there are many provisions, including provisions to save carbon emissions, compensation for all our carbon impact, a desire to finally have a fleet of vehicles with hybrid cars, the desire also to limit some of our meetings by considering videoconferencing, or even limiting the missions of officials who do not necessarily follow us in particular in the places where they are indispensable. so, to summarize, we should have had more money to invest and stock up for 2008, pre-election year, but, broadly speaking, it's still a very good report because there are effects on policies that i care about. that is why we shall vote for this report, mr president.
mr president, there is a famous law on budgetary discussions called the law of the three 'l's', because budgetary discussions are litanies, as in a religious liturgy, which eventually leads to economic lethargy and this is verified in the 2008 budget. litany first. mr virrankoski is reciting these litanies, as mr elles did in 2006, as our colleague, garriga polledo, did in 2005. first, the litany of cutting appropriations: the council of ministers, in the draft budget, cuts the appropriations in the preliminary draft budget. mr mulder explained that this was a classic in agricultural matters, for example. and the european parliament is proposing to reinstate the appropriations. the litany of a budget which is still below the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. the multiannual financial framework is already very low in appropriations and the budget is even lower. it's a cascade of malthusianism. the litany of political priorities is also there: year after year we hear about the fight against poverty, education, learning, multifunctional agriculture, the seventh framework programme for research, and that is where the liturgy is. the liturgy is first of all in the budget nomenclature and in the ideology that supports this nomenclature. the nomenclature is the presentation of the budget by activity, the establishment of the budget by activity. in concrete terms, expenditure is broken down by heading, by policy area, which corresponds to general directions. and the budget looks like a giant salami, a sort of grocery inventory, with a problem that the rapporteur has seen very well, namely that the activity-based budget creates confusion with the multiannual financial framework, which is divided into broad categories. five categories on the one hand: competitiveness, conservation of natural resources, freedom, the european union as a global partner, administration and, on the other hand, some 30 political activities, with a difficult match to be made. all this is done in the name of a budgetary ideology, which is the ideology of performance, competitiveness, efficiency, efficiency, result, and it gives a cloudy mess of tools, the result indicators, the performance indicators, the activity sheets, and this budgetary technology that is presented as a new one, the cutting edge of budgetary intelligence, is an old one that goes back to 1947. the american hoover commission was the first to speak of the concepts of performance, cost/benefit, efficiency, objectives and results. and what will give the united states in the 1960s, under president johnson, the planning-programming-budgeting system, and what will give under president carter the bbz, the zero base budget, that is to say this ideology of budgetary performance that we will find after: new zealand, great britain, france in 2001 with its organic law on financial laws, and even mexico in 2006. and from this we can understand why the european budget has no transparency and, in fact, no efficiency. there are not 100 people in the european parliament who are capable of controlling the european budget by activity, with the consequence that this entails: an economic lethargy of the european union, because if there is no galileo, if there is no link between lyon and turin, if there is no link between genoa and barcelona, if the capitals are not connected by high-speed trains, if the research budget is not what it should be, if the european budget of 27 is equal to the amount of the spanish budget, if the european budget is one twentieth of the budget of the united states, it is precisely because of this malthusian ideology. it is perhaps time to understand that, alongside an ordinary budget, an extraordinary budget is needed to make loans financed by a large european loan which would make investments possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a minute and a half to speak on the draft budget for 2008 is a formidable exercise, but i would like to take the time, if you will excuse me, to thank our rapporteurs, kyösti virrankoski and ville itälä, with whom we had to proceed with great difficulty with the arbitrations that the committee on budgets proposes to you today. of course, the multiannual budgetary framework for 2007-2013 creates a rigidity which unfortunately does not allow us to pursue, either as firmly or especially as quickly, the objectives we have set ourselves for europe and whose policies constitute, in my view, the only salvation for our european regions by being able to give our fellow citizens the comfort of life to which they aspire in a metamorphosed global environment that is constantly moving and changing. i therefore invite parliament to support the initiatives of our committee, especially with a view to the renegotiation of the multiannual framework at the mid-term and the definition of a new own resources mechanism. i would like to make one final comment on this budget, because of the limited time i have. i have chosen, as the permanent rapporteur for the structural funds in the cobu, to ask the members of the european commission why 30% of the administrative expenditure relating to these funds is reserved. the study we recently presented with kyösti on the implementation of the structural funds highlights the considerable delay the commission has made in the validation of the national frameworks and operational programmes, with a record three years' backlog; and with this firm stance on the reserve, we wanted to sound the alarm. regional policies, like support for research and innovation, are vital policies for the future of our economy, hence our jobs, hence the quality of life of europeans. we want to do it quickly, but we want to do it well, which explains the demanding level of appropriations we are proposing the council to support.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on world food day, on tuesday 16 october, fao wanted to raise awareness of the problem of under-nutrition, which currently affects 854 million people worldwide. on that occasion, the rise in the prices of agricultural raw materials was highlighted and, in particular, its consequences for consumers in the developed countries - my colleagues have just spoken about this extensively - but also for the populations of the poor countries, importers of cereals. while in the developed countries we spend 10 to 20% of the household budget on food, in the less developed countries it is 60 to 80% of the budget for the population and a 20% increase in the price of cereals is simply dramatic for them. this situation is exacerbated by the high dependence of some countries on imports, currency fluctuations, climatic variations and the rise in transport costs. commissioner, you have partially answered, but i hope there will be other measures. what measures do you intend to take in the short and medium term, on the occasion of the cap health check, to remedy this difficult situation for consumers in the north but even more so for those in the south, and to contribute to the global food balance?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the authors of this resolution and give them my support. the soaring price of cereals and, therefore, foodstuffs, reflects europe's current dependence on the volatility of world agricultural markets. to accept this would be to accept that the consumer becomes an adjustment variable during the correction phases of these markets. accepting this would also be to deny the influence of the large retailers which have been contributing to a downward trend in agricultural prices for the last 40 years, even as consumer food prices have stagnated or risen. this abnormal capture of margins could and should have been reflected in the way that the large distributors, in the crisis we are currently experiencing, would have absorbed the increase in the cost of agricultural raw materials. obviously, it is not. the large retailers continue to abuse their dominant position and it is now urgent for the commission to address this issue to prevent the european consumer from being held hostage to an unfair and dangerous system.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i regret that the council is not represented in our debate this evening because, for once, it is the main interlocutor. we are in a euphoric mood, everyone agrees, and tomorrow we will vote - i think by an overwhelming majority - for ratification of this amendment to the trips agreements which is supposed to allow and should allow, somewhat, better access to medicines for countries which do not have the level of development or, above all, the pharmaceutical industry that allows them. what happened in the long debate we had on this was that parliament was a little more doubtful than the commission was about the effectiveness of this mechanism. i think it is, and i would like to thank the council here for having, for once, listened to parliament even more than the commission, which led to the statement that was distributed on monday morning, in which we agree that an agreement between us will allow us to take this small step. it is a better one, but it is a better one whose insufficiency we knew and about whose effectiveness we have some doubts. these few doubts should be removed by the tenacity of the member states and the council in implementing the recommendations. but i am pleased with what mr mandelson has just said, that he himself is announcing a group of experts to find other measures, an evaluation of these measures and i think we will talk about these things again after an assessment of effectiveness which should meet our expectations. in any case, i am glad that this is a good conclusion to an insufficient but necessary step.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in our last debate in july on access to medicines, i concluded by calling on the council and the commission to make clear and solemn commitments that would ensure that europe is actively involved in finding new solutions and that it is committed to being a leading player in the fight for access to affordable medicines for all. we could not be satisfied with a debate without specific commitments and i note today that after several months of exchanges between our three institutions, certain proposals we had made and wished to make are becoming a reality. let me first of all congratulate the work that has been done in parliament, and this in a constant spirit of accountability and openness. the three successive postponements of the vote in parliament were motivated by a commitment to global public health. we thought that the word 'solidarity' still had a meaning in european politics. i would therefore like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, gianluca susta, for his persuasiveness and resilience, and all the other rapporteurs from the political groups who, throughout these months of collaboration, work and common conviction, have gone beyond their partisan commitment to present a quality image of parliamentary work. i hope therefore that the council and the commission will be able to demonstrate that the commitments made in the course of our various exchanges in recent months and in the written declaration we have received will be respected. that is, that member states are free to use all the clauses that allow generic medicines to be produced and exported to developing countries and not just to poor developing countries. that these developing countries will be able to take full advantage of the flexibilities of the doha declaration to provide their populations with the essential medicines they need; the european union will not negotiate public health provisions with these countries in the context of trade agreements negotiations, and i also take note of the commissioner's statements on this point. the european union will finance projects to develop research and production capacities in these countries. these are positive developments, and we want to make them our own now, but i would like to say that all the questions raised by parliament and its legitimate concerns have not necessarily found all the answers that we wanted from the other institutions. our fight for universal access to medicines around the world continues. we will therefore remain extremely vigilant in the implementation of the commitments made by the council and the commission today and at the same time continue to demand that all our concerns be addressed swiftly and adequately in the coming months. i would remind you that the first of the commitments made to parliament was to complete the evaluation of the mechanism which we are going to adopt tomorrow. there are still doubts about him that need to be cleared up. if this is not the case, in accordance with the commitments made to the developing countries concerned, the union should draw the appropriate conclusions in order to arrive at a truly viable and lasting solution. i therefore welcome the commitments made by the council and the commission and will therefore call on my group to vote tomorrow in favour of ratification, even if the long weeks of work we have just had make me think that far from being over, the collective commitment we have made is only just beginning.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur for the very good consultation work he has done on this recommendation on the european certification framework. i would also like to thank the commission and the council for their attention and availability to all. with the eec, we therefore have a tool for the mobility of european citizens, whether in the context of training courses or in the context of professional mobility. the free movement of persons, enshrined in our treaties, is still hampered by the difficulty of citizens in getting their qualifications acquired in their country of origin recognised throughout the union. certifications are issued by each member state according to its own systems and procedures and are a matter of national sovereignty, and the eec respects this. however, certificates are increasingly being used outside the country of issue, and we would like to encourage this, while respecting the value which the diploma or qualification confers on its holder. we therefore needed a tool for comparison and, above all, for converting qualifications from one member state to another. this was all the more necessary and sensitive as regards vocational qualifications. the committee on employment therefore wanted vocational qualifications to be integrated into the eec. it is done and we are happy about it. employees and companies are increasingly mobile in the european labour market. but employees and employers need to be guaranteed in all member states what measures the competence and value of a worker, that is to say his professional qualification, regardless of how it was acquired. i would like to stress one more point, commissioner. the eec is a pretty empty shell at the moment. in fact, for it to exist, the diplomas, qualifications and certificates created in each member state must be calibrated and registered in the framework of reference, the european qualifications framework. this will be a major task for all member states, and will require a great deal of energy and expertise. the support of the european commission will be indispensable, as will the support of the european agencies - i am thinking in particular of cedefop. the involvement of the social partners will also be essential at all levels. they should be associated, as provided for in the recommendation, by the member states and by the sectoral dialogue committees at community level. finally, for the eec to be complete and effective, it will also require that the economic partners and the professional branches take it up and make it their own. not only because they issue certificates which will have to be integrated into the eec, but because companies need references to prioritize their employment, to hire. and the eec must quickly become their common frame of reference and i dream of a time when the eec will be that frame of reference everywhere, even in collective agreements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on the constructive message we are about to send to the council and the commission, but also to the turkish government and parliament. i regret, however, that parliament has not been more clear in its expression of an issue which is certainly sensitive but nonetheless central. i want to talk about the armenian genocide issue. as early as 1987, our parliament called the massacre of 1.2 million armenians, or two thirds of the armenian population living in the ottoman empire at that time, between 1915 and 1917, genocide. the us senate and house of representatives have just done the same, and i regret that our parliament is falling short of the american positions on this subject. as a recent statement by the international federation for human rights pointed out, many turkish citizens are being prosecuted under article 301 of the penal code for insulting turkish identity. in order to address this period of history publicly, i believe it is therefore urgent to repeal this article. we are not doing our turkish friends any favors by making them forget their history. this duty of remembrance is also a requirement for the descendants of the survivors of this genocide and for the international community itself. i therefore call on this house to support all the amendments calling for recognition of the armenian genocide, as well as those stressing the need for absolute respect for religious freedom and the rights of minorities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear-headed. the decision we took yesterday will be, and is already being interpreted by the russian authorities, as a great success: no resolution, no message. this is a real reward after the rejection of an official delegation of the european parliament's "human rights" committee. russian society remains more than ever hostage to a propaganda media and is locked into a dangerous nationalism. today in russia, violence based on fear is the law, while racism and xenophobia are the recipe. the word "independent" has no place in the city. human rights defenders, journalists or "independent" political opponents are automatically labeled "enemies of the regime". in fact, a law adopted in 2007 informally recognizes them. under the guise of combating extremism, it is in fact acting to give the authorities full latitude in this unequal fight. and as marie mendras explained to us yesterday, this state of constant violation of human rights, in the end, does not mobilize the crowds there. putin has thus succeeded in persuading his fellow citizens that there is a russian specificity in terms of democracy and human rights. with such a view, it is not surprising that russia is still the last member state of the council of europe not to have ratified protocol 14. the court's commitment to putin is a boon, a blessing. it allows him to ignore the application of the arrests, such as delaying the requests, especially those of the tortured chechens. in view of this, it would be naive to think that free and fair elections will be held in russia on 2 december. in the face of such a parody, is it not more appropriate to speak of a plebiscite for or against vladimir putin? without changing the constitution, he will be able to keep in his hands the political, economic, financial, administrative, judicial and security powers. on the eve of the eu-russia summit, i call on you, the council and the commission, to put human rights at the highest political level. it is imperative that they take centre stage, whether it is in the discussion of the future agreement or kosovo or energy. that is what the russian democrats are asking us to do, they are simply telling us: "keep talking about them, keep telling the truth". at least we're not risking our lives doing this.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to all the speeches made here on the forthcoming summit between the european union and russia and, in general, on relations between the european union and russia and also on the internal situation, from your point of view, in russia, and i must tell you that, of course, as is my duty, i have taken due note of these views expressed here. there is one point which i think is common to all the comments that have been made here and to all the analyses that have been reflected here. russia is indeed a strategic partner for the european union. that the european union needs russia as russia needs the european union. and it is on the basis of this finding, which i think is an absolutely undeniable finding, that we have to build a relationship that is a relationship that is naturally mutually beneficial, but also that is a solid and firm relationship, based on absolutely shared values and principles. we have spoken here of solidarity, we have spoken here of human rights, we have spoken here of reciprocity. the european union must of course stand firm in its internal solidarity with russia. the problem of one member state - i have always said this - is a problem of all, and this solidarity cannot in any case be called into question. human rights, we all know that the basis of our union is certainly respect for the rules of the democratic state, for human rights. these are values and principles which are inalienable for us and which must, in all circumstances, guide our relations with third countries. reciprocity for sure. we have to naturally give. but when we give, we also have the right to receive. and if there are fault lines at the moment, as the honourable member has mentioned, i believe that we, the european union and russia, will only win if we do everything possible within the framework of reference that i have mentioned to you, a framework of solidarity, a framework of reciprocity, a framework of respect for human rights. the european union certainly has a vested interest in seeing these fractures eliminated. that's what we're gonna work for. we will of course be aware of the difficulties and the objectives, but we will also be determined because we are aware that the current state of affairs is not in the union's interest and it is our duty to work in the interests of the european union, and we will do so with frankness, transparency and face to face, as we always have to do with partners whom we consider to be strategic. it will certainly be an intense dialogue and an important dialogue. we shall talk about the economy, we shall talk about trade, we shall talk about human rights and we shall of course talk about the international political situation and the regional political situation. we hope - and that is why i say we will work - that despite the difficulties, despite the problems, despite the differences, we can after all this, on friday, after this summit, despite everything, report that some progress has been made in relations and that despite the difficulties we have succeeded in achieving our objectives.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me just pick a few things out. the debate has shown one thing above all: the very high tension that exists today. i still believe that russia is a strategic partner. but i also said that it is, of course, a neighbouring country, and therefore it is particularly important that we take the questions raised by graham watson, christopher beazley and others here very seriously. and we take them seriously. just remember the last summit in samara. here, angela merkel, the president of the council, has clearly put things on the table - not only in the meeting but also in front of the media. i mean, don't think that we don't care about those values. we know that there are very worrying developments in the area of media freedom, in the area of judicial independence, in the area of the issue of fairness also for the elections. all that has been said here is, of course, correct. but i also want to tell you that elmar brok's intervention here actually describes a little bit of what i see myself, which is that we need to clearly define our interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the three great principles mentioned by mr beazley, solidarity, reciprocity and the rule of law, are also of course to be mentioned. of course, there are the different shapes. there is nothing to be said against it. you are absolutely right, mr beazley, but i can assure you that they will be put on the table. i know that commission president barroso will be very clear here on these matters, especially as regards energy issues, for example. they know that the commission has just adopted a package which goes in that direction. we want clear rules of the game, which are respected by all in the spirit of genuine reciprocity. i would like to remind you that the more we in the european union are prepared to speak with one voice, the stronger we will be. as we all know, we don't always succeed. but the stronger russia becomes, the more we should speak with one voice. we have this energy dependence, but we can only really defend our interests if we are clear and strong. perhaps we have not paid attention to this in the past, and when russia was in a weaker economic position, so to speak, we probably did not give it enough support. but today we must take a stance based on reciprocity and seek a genuine partnership approach, which also includes getting recognition from russia of what is essential to us.
thank you very much. i think the message has been heard, but it will be conveyed.
thank you, i'm very sensitive to your remarks. i am pleased to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that today we are celebrating the 62nd anniversary of the united nations. i am sure that you have received a copy of the message of the un secretary-general on this occasion. i would also like to inform you that the annual report on cooperation between the european union and the united nations in crisis management, development and the promotion of democracy and fundamental freedoms is being officially launched today in the european parliament in strasbourg. this gesture demonstrates the importance of the relations between our institutions, our common commitment to multilateralism and our interest in working together for peace and the well-being of our fellow citizens.
i am pleased to inform you that a mauritanian delegation, chaired by mr ould tolba, is visiting the european parliament in the course of the interparliamentary meetings. i would like to welcome our guests very warmly and stress the importance we attach to such a visit, the first in europe for almost ten years. the european union, which is present through election observation missions, has followed with great interest the recent political transition in mauritania, which could serve as an example for the region. we congratulate you on the democratic election of your head of state and of your parliament, and i express the hope on behalf of parliament that your meetings in our assembly will be fruitful and that your stay in strasbourg will actively contribute to the rapprochement between our two institutions. thanks again for coming.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
on behalf of the its group. mr president, i believe that the next report is the report by mrs wallis on which, on behalf of my group, identity, tradition, sovereignty, i have the honour, under rule 168, of defending a motion for referral back to committee, if you will. mr president, this motion for a resolution is based on rule 168 of our rules of procedure. mr president, it is very clear from the reading of mrs wallis' report that there is, i think, in the mind of the rapporteur and perhaps in the mind of the commission, a confusion between article 9 and article 10 of the protocol on immunities. the report tells us that mr gobbo's behaviour was not in accordance with rule 9, but rule 9 covers the words and actions of a member of parliament in the exercise of his duties, and in particular in the chamber. the point to be examined was whether or not mr gobbo's acts, which i will say at once that i do not share politically, were political. clearly, his actions are political. mr. gobbo has done a number of acts in support of what he calls "the padania". these are naturally political acts and there is no doubt that a member of another political colour, in the light of the traditional jurisprudence on immunity, would have had his immunity confirmed, as the national parliamentarians who committed the same acts as mr gobbo have had their immunity confirmed in the italian parliament. the report by mrs wallis, if it is adopted in these terms, risks introducing a difference, a discrimination between national immunity and european immunity, contrary to the protocol which refers specifically to national immunities. that is why i think that this report should be referred back to committee.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to make a statement on behalf of the commission. in its preliminary draft amending budget 6/2007, the commission proposed the creation of a new budget item – ‘damage requests resulting from legal procedures against the commission’s decisions in the field of competition’ and the classification of the related expenditure under heading 1a of the multiannual financial framework as it refers to an operational activity in the competition policy area. the commission would charge against this budget item possible budgetary implications stemming from rulings of the court of justice or the court of first instance in the field of competition. the need for this budget item derives from recent judgments of the court of first instance and from the structure of the budget. while fines in the field of competition policy are entered as general budget revenue, the amounts to be paid require the creation of a budget item in the expenditure side of the budget, which does not exist at the moment. the commission takes note that the budgetary authority does not intend to support the creation of this budget item for the year 2007. despite this decision, if necessary the commission may have to proceed to payments in order to meet legal obligations that might result from the court’s decisions in 2007 within the limits of the current budget and in application of the relevant rules. it does not prejudge the final decision on the creation of the dedicated budget line and on the classification of the related expenditure within the multiannual financial framework.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, access to affordable pharmaceutical products in poor developing countries and ldcs is essential to attain the proposed eu development goals and would contribute to poverty reduction, increase human security and promote human rights and sustainable development. i think we both agree on the importance of ensuring the coherence of eu policies and that consistency in the eu’s external actions, namely trade and development policies, should go hand in hand. we recognise that the mechanism created by the wto decision and the protocol to the trips agreement represent just a part of the solution to the problem of access to medicines and public health, and that other measures to improve health care and infrastructure are equally indispensable. even if the trips amendment is not the complete solution, we believe that the positive acceptance of the protocol represents an important step. to this effect, it is worth recalling that the member states of the european union remain free under wto rules to use the different exceptions provided under the trips agreement in their domestic patent laws, including those provided for under article 30 of the trips agreement. furthermore, in order to facilitate access to medicines in countries with insufficient or no manufacturing capacities in the pharmaceutical sector, the council, the european parliament and the commission all worked hard to adopt regulation (ec) no 816/2006 on compulsory licensing of patents relating to the manufacture of pharmaceutical products for export to countries with public health problems. let me add that we support the use of the ‘flexibilities’ built into the trips agreement and recognised by paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of the doha declaration as well as the additional flexibilities for less-developed countries made available pursuant to paragraph 7 of the doha declaration, in order to be able to provide essential medicines at affordable prices under their domestic public health programmes. in view of the doha declaration in the framework of the epa negotiations with the acp countries and other future bilateral and regional agreements with poor developing countries and ldcs, the european union is not asking, and does not foresee asking, to negotiate pharmaceutical-related provisions, sometimes referred to as trips+ provisions, affecting public health and access to medicines. finally, we look favourably upon initiatives encouraging the transfer of technology, research, capacity strengthening, regional supply systems and help with registration in order to facilitate and increase the production of pharmaceutical products by the developing countries themselves and we will work with member states towards that end. concerning the corresponding measures and the budgetary procedures, we are sure that the commitment of the european parliament which has raised the visibility of the issue of access to medicines will help to increase their efficiency.
new provisions will come into force on the first day of the new session, i.e. 12 november.
i would like to show you, ladies and gentlemen, the work we still have to do today. you understand that if everyone slows down, we won't get out of this. (applause) i would like to thank
the session staff tell me that he disagrees, but i'll ask mr davies to enlighten us.
in that case, tradition dictates that we follow our rapporteur.
we take note of your statement, ma'am.
in writing. françoise castex voted in favour of the susta report on the protocol amending the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips). the commissioner said that the eu had a duty to ensure that the eu's citizens were not left behind in the process of the transition to a new era of democracy. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body.
in writing. the corbett report recommends that parliament's debates should no longer be translated into all the official languages in order to save some 10 million euros a year. access to these debates in each language would then be guaranteed via the only audio-visual versions available on the internet, and the possibility for each member to request certain translations. but not all european citizens have high-speed internet and there is talk of limiting meps' translation requests to around 30 pages a year. what mr corbett is proposing is to limit the access of european citizens to the work of those they elect to represent and defend them at the level of the european union. this is not acceptable. this is all the more unacceptable when, at the same time, this institution spends 100 million euros a year on its propaganda policy. the commission is spending more than 200 million on such vital measures as the widespread distribution of pornographic internet clips intended to promote european cinema. fortunately, common sense - or the elector's holy fear - prevailed among most of our colleagues and multilingualism was preserved.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the principle of publicity of deliberations, which governs both judicial and political debate, is a fundamental principle of democracy. this advertising helps to reduce ideological bias, arbitrariness, cronyism, and beatings. this means ensuring that all public proceedings are accessible to everyone in their own language, ensuring that the same words express the same concepts for everyone. so who among our fellow citizens will be able to trace and understand a debate when he has a salmigondis in front of him in 20 languages? it will probably be the same as the one who will be able to understand the so-called 'simplified' treaty and who will be able to put its 400 new provisions into the existing treaties himself, since, again, no consolidated version will, it seems, be available during the ratification process. the european union, faced with the growing reluctance of the citizens of the member states, has no other pretext than opacity, camouflage and lies.
in writing. françoise castex voted in favour of the mantovani report on the creation of a european framework for certification. the commissioner also welcomed the fact that the council had adopted a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emahp) and that the commission had also adopted a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emahp). according to this proposal, all qualifications, from the end of compulsory education to the highest levels of university education and vocational training (the commission's original text concerned only general education qualifications), should be classified according to one of eight reference levels based on acquired knowledge, skills and competences. for françoise castex, the eqf is a tool for comparing, translating and converting qualifications from one member state to another, which will respect the diversity of certification systems and the wealth of qualifications existing in the union. it is also a tool that will make it easier for european citizens to move around. the member states still have to undertake a heavy classification work within the framework of reference of the eec, otherwise the eec will be condemned to remain an 'empty shell'.
in writing. this report deals with the certification of lifelong learning at community level. this is all very well and should be encouraged. but i reject the globalist justification used in this text, and i would also point out the total failure of the lisbon strategy. the europeanist ideology is sweating through this text. it is written that the sacred globalisation represents our one and only salvation and that globalisation is beneficial at the economic and social level. i consider ultra-liberal globalisation to be a machine for destroying the economic, social and cultural fabric of nations. the report only discusses potential improvements... in the future. who would like to look at the present, to analyze the failures and the damage that globalization has caused in our societies today? in view of the blindness, irresponsibility and inadequacy of the report, i shall vote against it.
in writing. françoise castex voted in favour of the davies report on the reduction of co2 emissions from passenger cars. while the debate on the environmental grenelle monopolizes france, the european union has in turn added a precious stone to the building block of our environment by approving the reduction of co2 emissions from passenger cars. françoise castex welcomes the fact that the european parliament has asked the european automotive industry to ensure that new cars emit no more than 120g/km of co2 by 2012. the commissioner said that the eu had a duty to ensure that the eu's energy policy was consistent with the eu's objectives and that the eu's energy policy was consistent with the eu's objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. 19% of the co2 emissions produced in the european union today come from cars and light commercial vehicles. it is essential that the european union commits itself to an ambitious and realistic target of reducing the average emissions of all cars placed on the eu market. the impact of road transport on air quality must be able to be reduced as the vehicle fleet is renewed. i welcome the adoption of the deadlines by the european parliament. if verifiable and measurable actions by industry are to be taken as early as 2011, the date of 2015 to reach a limit threshold of 125g/km for cars placed on the market seems to me the most relevant. it corresponds to the entry into force of euro vi standards. effective legislation must first be realistic, and the industry has long placed environmental issues at the heart of its policies. when we talk about climate change, the priority must be to reduce co2 emissions in absolute mass.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from cars, and i welcome this. this will reduce carbon dioxide emissions and thus contribute to the eu's wider environmental and energy independence objectives. however, the signal sent by this vote to the european commission and the international community could have been more ambitious. since 1995, the 120g/km co2 threshold has been put forward as an achievable target by the automotive industry. the commission has therefore been delaying its implementation for 12 years, even though technological progress is now making it possible to reduce co2 emissions even more than 12 years ago. the european parliament is not going far enough by simply accepting a maximum threshold of 125 g co2/km. i therefore voted against amendments nos 42 and 52, the objectives of which, under the guise of being realistic and prudent, are in fact quite modest. at a time when consumers are increasingly sensitive to the cleanliness of vehicles, reducing co2 emissions from vehicles will benefit the automotive industry, the consumer and, of course, the planet.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to support the member states in their very strict measures on smoking, but also to promote the promotion of public health. not only is tobacco smoke the number one air pollutant, but the chemicals in cigarettes pose great risks to smokers and non-smokers alike. this is particularly true in enclosed spaces (workplaces, bars, restaurants, etc.). i therefore think it is essential to ban smoking in such places clearly and unilaterally. strict legislation aimed at protecting the health of our citizens to the greatest extent possible cannot be effectively implemented without a genuine effort to raise awareness and inform about the risks of smoking. i also welcome the desire to carry out effective information campaigns for target groups, including young people, pregnant women and parents. finally, i regret the adoption of the amendment calling on the commission to study the health risks of chewing tobacco and its impact on cigarette consumption. i believe that this request has no place in such a report because the health risks of chewing tobacco are widely known (cancer of the tongue, etc.).
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur on the adoption of the resolution on eu-turkey relations. the resolution by mrs oomen-ruijten is a consensual and balanced document in which she has tried to deal with all the issues relating to this issue. the resolution welcomes the recent free elections in turkey, calls on the government to speed up the reform process and welcomes the government's intention to adopt a new civil constitution. the resolution also calls for the launch of a new political initiative for a lasting settlement of the kurdish question. the resolution of the cyprus problem in the framework of the un is also mentioned. on the other hand, in line with the position taken by france, i welcome the fact that the resolution recalls that turkey's accession remains subject to full compliance with all the copenhagen criteria and the european union's capacity for integration. all these reasons led me to vote in favour of adopting this resolution in the final vote in plenary. i only regret once again very much that the european parliament has not formally called on turkey to officially recognise the armenian genocide of 1915.
in writing. this resolution is losing its force because fundamental amendments on the recognition of the armenian genocide have been rejected by the majority of my colleagues. i am and remain in favour of turkey's membership of the european union. however, this membership requires an assumed history. i am also totally opposed to the contradiction which the european parliament has just made. in paragraph 5 of its resolution of 28 september 2005, the council called on turkey to recognise the armenian genocide and considered such recognition a precondition for membership of the european union. the choice not to mention the armenian genocide in this new resolution is a step backwards which i cannot endorse on this point.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution on eu-turkey relations to express my opposition to the ongoing accession negotiations. two recent events should make clear the risks of this hypothetical accession. first, the political crisis that the country went through before the appointment of its president of the republic: it illustrated the tensions within turkish society but also the institutional fragility of this country. i am also thinking of the tensions on the iraqi border and the risk of destabilising one of the few areas where the war was contained. the decision of the turkish parliament to authorize the army to make military incursions into iraq is not acceptable. turkey is playing a dangerous regional game and the eu should not support the current populist and bellicose drift. all this reinforces my conviction that if we extend the union to the borders of iraq, i do not see what remains of it as a european union! i think that turkey is still not ready to join the eu. it is up to us to propose alternative formulas: in this context, the union for the mediterranean proposed by nicolas sarkozy is certainly an opportunity for the eu and turkey to seize.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, in the european institutions and in particular in mr kacin's report, serbia is generally treated not as a sovereign state but as a bad pupil, a bad subject, to which the european union attributes the right to distribute the good and bad points. good points, when serbia has a government that is described as pro-european. pro-european, which means, of course, subject to and subject to the dogmas in force in brussels. and the bad points are that the serbs are not very keen to cooperate with the international criminal court. it is worth recalling that this court has flouted two principles which are the basis of law: the legal sovereignty of states and freedom of opinion. the president of the serbian radical party, vojislav seselj, who represents 28% of the electorate, has been in prison in the hague since february 2003 and is still awaiting trial, although he has voluntarily appeared before the court. this court is thus blatantly violating the principles, which have been proclaimed by the european union, of respect for fundamental rights and respect for human rights, etc. in truth, mr. seselj's only crime is being a serbian patriot. in fact, the leaders of the european union, who want to disintegrate the nations of europe, do not forgive the serbs for having resisted the dismantling of their state, and in particular the secession of kosovo, which is the historical heart of serbia. the treatment of the serbs in kosovo is a warning to all the peoples of europe. if today the albanians are demanding the creation of a kosovar state, it is because immigration from albania and serbian ethnicity have given them a majority in a province where, 50 years ago, they were a minority. the example of kosovo must lead us, more than ever, to reaffirm the right of the peoples of europe to remain themselves and to dispose of themselves, that is to say to preserve their identity and their sovereignty, and in a great european europe of homelands and nations, the serbian people will obviously have to find its rightful place.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on foreign affairs, of which i am the rapporteur, supports all these efforts. she's worried about africa, she's supporting all of this. she only asks if we're bold enough. what we cannot write, but what our report suggests, but what i can say, is that there is a suffocating, hypocritical political correctness about africa which should also be got rid of if you are to achieve your intentions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so that slogan is a lie. all the countries in africa are below food self-sufficiency, we import to eat, and it's our exports and those of brazil that are killing local food agriculture. we must help africa to protect itself - we say that, it is written in the report. corruption is a devastating plague, of course. but it's endemic in very poor countries. so we have to start with the big fish and stick to them. to our usual correspondents, they would be ministers, and to our own corrupters. small-scale corruption will disappear only through development. let's not make them ashamed of who we were a few centuries ago. we started our expansion into corruption as well. finally, a dictatorship cannot become a democracy, even through trade and aid. but it can become an enlightened despotism. the end of torture and kidnapping, freedom of expression, the independence of the judiciary and its control over the police are priorities over pluralist elections designed to please the west, during which journalists and candidates are kidnapped and killed. our parole board should take that into account. there's a lot to talk about.
for the greens/efa group madam president, despite the stated intentions, it cannot be said that there are new elements to the debates which have been going on for months on the partnership between the european union and africa. of course, peace and the rule of law must be absolute priorities, and the european union is playing an increasing role in these, which is to be welcomed. the support given to the organisation of elections, for example, still needs to be carefully monitored and monitored so that the people concerned can see the practical benefits of the introduction of democracy in their daily lives. the other thing i would say is that the european union's proposals are still very traditional, between promoting good governance and free trade, focusing on economic development and concern for health policies. but, while the news is hot, these europe/africa strategies, in our view, miss two key issues. firstly, food security, in a context of rising prices for raw materials, cereals in particular, and the rise in biofuels, and the need to preserve and develop agriculture, to which the next edf is allocating only a small percentage of its budget, as, alas, most governments in african countries do. even the world bank has recently stressed the urgency of reviewing the views in this area. the question of food is absolutely crucial today, as is the future of farming, which is too often neglected by development aid policies. secondly, as you know, africa is a vast reservoir of natural resources, which unfortunately the people are not getting, despite the fact that prices have risen considerably. all the major economic powers, as well as emerging countries like china, are racing to exploit these increasingly scarce resources. this rush, this voracity has consequences of extreme brutality in social and environmental terms, and continues to fuel wars and corruption. the european union, in this respect, has a very theoretical, even angelic, discourse, while also participating in the exploitation of these resources. how can we rationalise, control and share access to these resources so that the people concerned can really benefit from them without seeing their environment destroyed? this is a major issue which the eu/africa strategy is not addressing sufficiently and which will be imposed on it anyway, given the rapidity of developments in this area.
madam president, africa today has two faces: the face of extreme poverty and human tragedies such as those in darfur and somalia, but also the face, too often ignored, of a continent which is still innovating, which is democratizing, albeit too slowly, and which is gradually returning to the path of growth. the new europe-africa strategy must therefore take account of this dual reality and support this still fragile dynamic with a genuine political partnership based on unity, because it is africa as a whole, through the voice of the african union, which must be our first interlocutor, on equity with an agenda decided jointly and not imposed by the north, on humility, because europe is no longer africa's only exclusive partner. with the millennium development goals as a road map, with respect for the promises made and the financial commitments made by the union and the member states and, finally, with recognition of the role of african parliaments. the martens report is in fact the message we are sending today to the commission and the council, and we will be in lisbon in december to see if that message is really heard.
in writing. while the importance of the european parliament's report on the state of eu-africa relations, in preparation for the eu-africa summit in december, should be underlined, its realism should be particularly welcomed. the report calls for a genuine eu-africa partnership, a democratic, realistic partnership based on effective and coherent aid and trade. i would particularly like to express my support for the negotiation of economic partnership agreements (epas), because, as the report stresses, international trade must be seen as an instrument of development. only moderated, equitable and sustainable economic growth, as a result of commercial activity stimulated by market access, can reduce poverty in a sustainable way. free trade is not an end in itself, it must serve the acp countries; the eaps will therefore have to be implemented gradually and asymmetrically to take account of local specificities. we cannot be satisfied with one-off aid, otherwise we will not solve the problems, but at most we will put them off. africa is not just a theatre for humanitarian aid, it must be an actor in its development, with the european union as a partner.
the agenda calls for the report by marco cappato, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, containing a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the production of opium for medical purposes in afghanistan (2007/2125(ini) (a6-0341/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2007.
the agenda calls for the report by kurt lechner, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the green paper on improving the enforcement of judicial decisions in the european union: the seizure of bank assets (2007/2026 (ini)) (a6-0371/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2007.
the agenda calls for the following reports on criminal and prison law to be discussed jointly:- report by maria da assunção esteves, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the initiative of the federal republic of germany and the french republic with a view to the adoption by the council of a framework decision on the recognition and supervision of suspended sentences with probation, alternative sentences and conditional sentences (06480/2007 - c6-0129/2007 - 2007/0807 (cns)) (a6-0356/2007), and- report by ioannis varsivitotis, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft council framework decision on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to judgments in criminal matters for the purpose of depriving the european union of its freedom to execute criminal penalties (cns) (cns) 2005-02-068/2007 (a6-06-06/2007))
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2007.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading by hans-peter martin, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a common framework for the development of business registers for statistical purposes and repealing council regulation (eec) no 2186/93 (07656/5/2007 - c6-0218/2007 - 2005/0032 (cod)) (a6-0353/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2007.
ombudsman. madam president, first of all i wish to thank ms sbarbati, the rapporteur for my annual report for 2006 at this year’s plenary. i also wish to thank the very large number of members who, in fact, took the time to comment on my report. i am deeply grateful for the interest that this expresses and the guidance that it contains. with respect to ms sbarbati, let me just say that i of course worked very closely and intend to continue to work very closely with the petitions committee, with which i have excellent relations. the petitions committee and the ombudsman will continue to be the major instrument through which this august body will also be able to deal with citizens’ approaches to the european institutions. i take note of your remarks. i can tell you that i have already launched an own-initiative inquiry concerning epso, as you know, but i want to announce it to this body. i also have taken a strong interest and continue to monitor very carefully developments in the european schools. i wish to thank ms wallström for her remarks. i note that she has recorded the increase in the number of cases where the commission apologises for instances in which its services have not abided by best practice. i am very grateful to her for acknowledging that. i will be meeting with ms wallström in the near future, and i will also be meeting with the directors-general of the commission and the coordinators of all the services dealing with the ombudsman, precisely in order to be able to bring about better coordination and better results. this is an indication of how closely i am working with the commission, and i hope to be able to elicit better results to report to you next year, and of course to report to citizens. that includes the infringement, and i will be dealing with that as well. on a more general point, let me just say that i am very grateful to you for your general support on broad issues like the culture of service, which is very central to my concerns; for your references to the need for more resources for the ombudsman; for your support on the issue of the charter of fundamental rights and of the statute; and for your call for greater accountability, which for me of course is extraordinarily important. i can also let you know that i have launched, as of this year, a concerted effort to reach out to business associations as opposed to individuals, with an eye to better informing them of their rights as well. because of the pressure of time, allow me not to switch languages, but first of all to say to ms mcguinness and also to ms panayotopoulos-cassiotou, that i manage to help 70% of the 70% that are outside my mandate. therefore, my work involves not only the percentage that is within my mandate, but on top of that there is a great deal of effort being expended by my staff to be able to help every single citizen who comes to us whose concern is outside the mandate, by referring to the appropriate institution, be it at european or national level. therefore, this covers 3 830 cases, not 885. allow me now to switch languages. κυρία παναγιωτοπούλου, θέλω να σας διαβεβαιώσω ότι ο ευρωπαίος διαμεσολαβητής έχει πλήρη αίσθηση της υποχρέωσής του να λειτουργεί εντός των νόμιμων ορίων και βεβαίως πάντοτε θα λειτουργεί με βασική αρχή την έννοια της λογοδοσίας απέναντι σ’ αυτό το σώμα, και απέναντι σας, και πάντοτε με πολύ μεγάλη αίσθηση της ευθύνης του. lastly, i am doing all i can to promote the creation of a national ombudsman in italy. i have been there four or five times and i will continue to do so, hoping that we will be able to welcome an italian national ombudsman into our midst in the near future.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i would like to respond to two direct questions. the first concerns the reform of the statute of the ombudsman. i can tell you that, very early on, the ombudsman kept us informed about the work on the new statute, and we have been in constant touch about this. of course, there are some things we could easily approve, but others are more complicated. the commission will formally give its opinion only after parliament makes its proposals. we have also met with ms jäätteenmäki, and we are looking forward to her report with interest. the other direct question was from ms mcguinness about the carrot-and-stick approach and whether we applied it. no, not enough, i would say – or not yet. but what we have been doing over the last period of time is to create more of a visibility of these issues and also create an ownership within the commission for every directorate-general and through all the hierarchical levels in the commission. i think that creating that sense of responsibility and visibility will help us to encourage and also sometimes to make it known when we are not pleased with how individual officials are dealing with cases. i think it is rather rarely the case of an individual official making a mistake; it is more about the culture. this is what we have in the walls, and this is what we have to change now. i think the reforms we have taken will move us in the right direction. let me just finally mention one thing that i hope will be welcomed by the commission as well as the european parliament: we are working with citizens’ summaries on our proposals. again, to come closer to citizens, we also have to express ourselves not in eu jargon but in plain language, and i hope this will help.
in writing. ms sbarbati's report on the activities of the european ombudsman shows her commitment to this institution created by the maastricht treaty in 1992 to defend the citizens of the union in cases of maladministration by the community institutions. the text rightly stresses certain priorities for the ombudsman's future, such as the importance of cooperation with the ombudsmen of the member states or the proposal to improve internal control of the administration of the union's bodies. nevertheless, the report raises two issues that it would be dangerous to exclude from the european debate: firstly, the ombudsman's activities must lead to a reflection on his recognition and accessibility throughout europe. the number of complaints lodged with the ombudsman has tended to fall (3 830 in 2006, a 2% decrease compared with 2005), while complaints often come from states where the national culture already encourages citizens to refer cases to their institutions. the report also raises questions about the extension of the ombudsman's powers (access to documents and hearings without conditions). a change in the ombudsman's statute should in no way overlook the major role of parliament's committee on petitions, which derives its legitimacy directly from popular suffrage.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2008 draft budget prepared by the european parliament, as it proposes clear improvements to the draft budget put forward by the council. for 2008, a balance was struck between financing external policies, aid to kosovo and palestine, and funding galileo, a project of european unity. the priorities of the european socialists are thus well reflected in the european parliament's proposal at first reading for the 2008 community budget. i would like to stress, however, the modesty of this budget: it currently represents only 0.99% of eu gdp. this is the first time we've fallen below 1% of gdp. without resources, the eu cannot act in the interests of its citizens. it is time for the member states to take responsibility.
in writing. the european parliament has defended its priorities well in this first reading of the 2008 budget and i support the results achieved by the two rapporteurs, particularly in the areas of cohesion and sustainable growth. however, it should be remembered that, because of the insufficient level of the financial perspective for 2007-13, the annual budget will be small - only 0.99% of gni - which is something that we regret, together with my political group, and will not be able to meet the expectations of all the parliamentary committees and to finance sufficiently the major projects of the future of the european union such as galileo. nevertheless, we have succeeded in defending the broad lines of information and communication policy: the emphasis will thus be placed on the local media in view of their role as a vehicle for information for all european citizens. this is particularly important for the forthcoming ratification of the lisbon treaty and the preparation of the 2009 european elections. as the permanent rapporteur for information policy in the cobu, i welcome the possibilities offered in this area by this new budget.
in writing. the mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters is a sensitive subject. we do not have a uniform criminal law in europe today, and far from it. legal traditions and values as well as criminal laws differ from one country to another. the criminal law is linked to the identity of the member states. examples of national disparities in criminal law are as numerous as they are varied. this is particularly the case with regard to the protection and infringement of freedom of expression, which differ considerably from one state to another. the automatic application of a sentence handed down in one state and carried out in another would therefore be very dangerous, not only for the person subject to the penalty but also for the rule of law as a whole. extreme caution is therefore required in this area, since it is impossible today to ensure that a person is complying with certain common minimum standards of criminal procedural law. i am thinking in particular of respect for the principle of ne bis in idem, respect for genuine defence and not just formal defence, and respect for the rights of victims. there are two fundamental principles that must always be followed and respected. if not, the rule of law will disappear. these are the principles of legality and legal certainty.
the next item is the commission's statement on company rights.
member of the commission. mr president, let me answer both questions. in answer to the first, i think it is clear. in answer to the second, concerning the 14th company law directive, we had suggested that a further means of improving mobility might be a directive stipulating the conditions for the transfer of registered offices in the european union. the results of the economic analysis of the possible added value of a directive were inconclusive; companies already have the legal means to effect cross-border transfer. several companies have already transferred their registered office using the possibilities offered by the european company statute. soon, the cross-border mergers directive, which will enter into force in december, will give all limited liability companies, including smes, the option to transfer their registered office. they could do so by setting up a subsidiary in the member state to which they want to move and then merging the existing company into this subsidiary. in the commission’s view, it is only if this framework is found wanting that future legislative action in the shape of a 14th company law directive can be justified. therefore, mr mccreevy has decided for the moment not to proceed with this 14th company law directive, but i will certainly communicate your concerns again.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution. the debate is closed. the vote will take place later, at the voting time.
the agenda now calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on iran.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, we in the commission welcome this new joint motion for a resolution by the european parliament. i can tell you that we have all repeatedly expressed our great concerns about the human rights situation in iran – i, myself, very recently during the un general assembly, on the margins of which i met the iranian foreign minister, where, again, i very strongly emphasised all the facts that are there. i must say that the respect for basic human rights in iran has continued to deteriorate seriously over the past year and, for this reason, we will also support the new un general assembly resolution on the human rights situation in iran, as we do each year, which canada is likely to table. there is a continuous clampdown on freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and political dissent. there have been new cases of torture and executions of people who were minors at the time of the alleged crime. there has also been an increasing number of public executions, as mr romeva i rueda said, including in one case through stoning, despite assurances by the iranian side that stoning was forbidden under existing decrees. i also very specifically mentioned this case when i met the iranian foreign minister. iran has carried out at least 250 executions so far this year – the second highest number of executions worldwide. we also note, of course, the continuous discrimination against minorities, increasing harassment and the closure of independent non-governmental organisations. the documented intimidation and persecution of human rights defenders from all sectors of iranian society has grown, as has the repression of intellectuals, teachers, students, women activists and trade unions. only recently, one of iran’s best-known human rights defenders, mr emaddedin baghi, was once again imprisoned under the charge of propaganda against the government. and, since july, mr mansour osanlou, president of the iranian bus drivers’ union and the embodiment of an independent trade union movement in iran, has been under arrest. mr osanlou is in need of urgent medical treatment, which, we have reason to believe, he has still not received. but we are not remaining silent about such developments. we have taken numerous steps and repeatedly issued public statements denouncing the ongoing violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in iran, as well as the country’s persistent failure to uphold international standards on the administration of justice. once more, i call upon the iranian government to fully respect all human rights and fundamental freedoms, in line with iran’s obligations under international law and the conventions it has ratified. i would also like to reiterate our concern about iran’s refusal to resume the bilateral dialogue on human rights it suspended in 2004, which the european union continues to ask for. for our part, we remain ready to do so, as we believe in the importance of such a dialogue and engagement. in conclusion, the commission is, speaking quite unequivocally, in full agreement with parliament, whatever the developments on the nuclear issue or on other issues of concern to the european union. and we have this double-track approach, which, at this moment, javier solana and his new counterpart are working on, and, at the same time, we are also working in the united nations security council with regard to maybe a further strengthening of sanctions. at this moment, there can be no real progress in the relationship with iran without a serious improvement in the human rights situation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place later, at the voting time.
the agenda now calls for four motions for resolutions on pakistan. see minutes of the sitting.
member of the commission. mr president, as pakistan prepares for important parliamentary elections, the situation is, as we all know, very difficult and preoccupying, and i, also, like many of you, have to express that i was deeply shocked by the heinous bomb attack and assassination attempt in karachi, when ms benazir bhutto returned to the country last week, and also by the terrible loss of life, which has affected so many innocent people. we would like to extend our full sympathy to the families of the victims, and we also appeal to the pakistani authorities to bring those responsible to justice. this attack on a peaceful gathering has clearly demonstrated, once again, all the dangers of terrorism and fundamentalism to the people of pakistan. ms bhutto was right in describing this horrible event as a blow against democracy, particularly in the present electoral context of the country. parliament’s wish to express solidarity with the people of pakistan is both very relevant and timely. we in europe should encourage a more open, democratic society and, of course, a strong civil society in pakistan. it is also of fundamental importance that the elections should then provide maximum democratic legitimacy to the incoming assemblies, and the vote must be democratic, transparent and giving equal opportunities to all the political contestants. as you are well aware, it is one of those countries where we might envisage a possible election observation mission. in this context, my services carried out an exploratory mission in june, and they identified, i have to say, important shortcomings in the framework and the conditions for elections, including concerns about the independence of the election commission, the completeness and the accuracy of the voter register, restrictive candidature provisions, as well as lack of transparency in the results process.however, with urgent political will, there is still time to improve a number of these problematic areas and, therefore, i have not yet taken a full decision on whether we will deploy a fully-fledged election observation mission. i really have to see the aforementioned elements. i believe that the majority of people in pakistan would like to see a moderate, stable and democratic pakistan, and we should support them in achieving this aim. we are doing a lot, for instance, on the trade side, in order to help people to get out of poverty, but we also do a lot on the education side, in order not to have pupils and young children being educated in the madrasahs and being educated towards extremism and fundamentalism. but we should also support this because it is of crucial importance, as has been said, for the whole region, including neighbouring countries like important afghanistan. therefore, we have every reason to stay engaged. this is what we are trying to do and, therefore, this debate is a very timely one.
the debate is closed. we shall vote on this subject at the end of our debate later. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for six motions for resolutions on sudan, including the assassination of african union peacekeepers.
i know we have a little more time this afternoon, but we must not overdo it!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate, at the time of voting, which is now.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.35 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not need to explain much: everyone is aware of what is happening in georgia, and when we discuss a neighbourhood policy, it is clear that we should also discuss georgia. this should be fixed so that the council is aware of it. after that, we should prepare a resolution in a calm manner, because i think it is important that the european parliament formulates a clear resolution on the events in georgia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am therefore formally correct, and i hope that all colleagues will agree with me, so that we can proceed in this way.
the agenda calls for the report by pál schmitt, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the role of sport in education (2007/2086 ((ini)) (a6-0415/2007).
mr martin, there were far too many one-minute speeches. usually, it takes about a half an hour. that was way overstated, so i'm sorry.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 november 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by romana jordan cizelj, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision establishing the statutes of the euratom supply agency (com ((2007) 0119 - c6-0131/2007 -2007/0043 ((cns)) (a60376/2007).
madam president, i would also like to begin by congratulating our rapporteurs and to commend mrs gutiérrez for her hard work in achieving a result to protect our soils. unlike other colleagues, i believe that a more binding legislative approach would have provided better protection. i also regret that our colleagues, whose countries have stricter regulations than the proposed one, are still trying to weaken this report by amendments which i very strongly urge you to reject tomorrow. our agricultural, industrial, transportation patterns have upended the quality of our soils. yet these soils are the basis of biodiversity and our food. they filter and store organic and mineral matter, and they also help us access water. they play a prominent role in the fight against climate change. moreover, with the growing demand for food and energy production, it is essential to safeguard and restore the quality of our soils and to prevent desertification. so without legislation at european level, we cannot hope for any results.
madam president, my first move on this proposal for a directive was to reject the text. i think that a framework directive may not have been the appropriate solution. why should we have a text on soil protection when we already have a set of regulations on soil, on waste, on pesticides, on nature protection? as part of the better lawmaking process, i thought that we should not give the impression that we are once again passing the baton to the european commission. i put myself in the position of the mayors of our municipalities who would still have to find a text that needed to be peeled. but there is a reality: human practices have not respected the soil. to produce intensively, we have exhausted the soils. added to this is climate change, desertification. our urban policies have mineralized the soil, degraded it, and our citizens are now surprised to experience catastrophic floods because the soil no longer absorbs rain. who has not seen the open wounds in the landscape of the quarries that provide us with such useful materials? poor, dry, degraded, polluted, bruised, this is the land that the previous generations spoke of with reverence, for to them the land was everything: work, food, life, the only good for many. today we look at this once rich land with suspicion. what will be the effect of this degradation and pollution on our environment and our health? mrs gutiérrez has done a remarkable job of finding an acceptable approach, of bringing together those who did not want this directive with those who did. she listened to our parliament. it has found balanced positions, respecting the necessary subsidiarity in the choice of methods, because there is a huge disparity between the member states. the final text has evolved considerably. it avoids the administrative burden by encouraging us to correct the mistakes of the past, of our agricultural, industrial and urban practices, which have not respected the soil. this report, completely reworked by mrs gutiérrez, is satisfactory. there is such a diversity of soils in the european union that ensuring subsidiarity is essential, while ensuring the protection and sustainable use of soils.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, i would first of all like to warmly congratulate the commission for daring to break the taboo of aviation, without waiting for the decisions of iata, and i congratulate the rapporteur for supporting it. as rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i shall concentrate on one point only: the question of competition. as you said, commissioner, this directive removes a regulatory error which favours modes of transport other than aviation. that's an excellent point. the way in which it is applied should not lead to the preference of some companies over others. virtually every one of us has taken a flight at least once this year from a company that didn't exist three years ago. so we can't provide an annuity to existing companies. the larger the share allocated to auction distribution, the better the competition.
it remains to be seen whether santa's sleigh is part of the community's emissions trading scheme.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the speakers in tonight’s debate for their positive contributions and i would like to turn to the details of some of the amendments. there are many amendments that are acceptable, at least in part or in principle. for example, the commission accepts that it would be useful to require aircraft operators to develop monitoring and reporting plans. operators in the current scheme must also do this to obtain a greenhouse gas permit. this will facilitate credible verification and thus safeguard the environmental integrity of the scheme by preventing fraud. other examples include the exemption of certain activities such as humanitarian or firefighting flights. however, while i fully agree that we need to get started as soon as possible, a 2010 start date would be very challenging. there would be insufficient time to complete the preparatory work and, in particular, to complete the allocation process which requires more lead time than the process used in the current system. regarding the scope, i have already explained why the commission still believes a two-step approach would be helpful to convince third countries that the european union is ready to take the lead, consistent with our special obligations as a region of developed countries. regarding the call for more auctioning, i am well aware that this is in line with the growing consensus about the advantages of auctioning and i expect we will soon discuss this a lot more in the context of the general ets review. however, in the period before 2013, aviation should be treated as much as possible like other sectors. the share of allowances auctioned should therefore be the average percentage of auctioning applicable to other sectors, as laid down in the national allocation plans for 2008-2012. what happens after 2012 should depend on the general review of the ets. finally, i will share with you some concerns we have regarding amendments that relate to limits on the use of non-aviation credits, to the use of a multiplier for non-carbon dioxide effects and to an additional energy efficiency factor. these amendments all have the effect of limiting the possibility of aviation operators to use allowances, other than aviation allowances, to cover their emissions. this is not consistent with the fundamental idea of open emissions trading, which is what ensures cost-effective solutions. moreover, these changes would complicate the scheme significantly. the commission’s proposal already provides aircraft operators with extra incentives to improve fuel efficiency. there is, in our view, no need for additional features that will just make it more complicated. in summary, the commission can support 27 of the 100 proposed amendments fully, in part or in principle. i will give parliament’s secretariat a list detailing the commission’s position on the amendments commission’s position on amendments by parliament: see annex., including amendment 47 for which i would like to say that the commission will maintain the provisions which foresee a change of the registry regulation, but is open to consider ways to ensure that conversion of aviation allowances does not burden member states’ compliance with a kyoto target. commission’s position on amendments by parliament liese report (a6-0402/2007) the commission can support fully, in part, or in principle 27 amendments: numbers 1, 3-5, 7, 8, 10, 14, 17, 26, 29, 30, 36-38, 40, 45, 47, 49, 51-53, 57, 65, 70, 76, 79.the amendments which the commission cannot support are numbers 2, 6, 9, 11-13, 15, 16, 18-25, 27, 28, 31-35, 39, 41-44, 46, 48, 50, 54-56, 58-60, 61-64, 66-69, 71-75, 77, 78, 80-100.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the need for rapid and effective action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is now undeniable. in this context, it is crucial to reduce the impact of transport on global warming. the text we are discussing is one of the steps taken in this direction, and i support this initiative. however, this legislation will be successful if we succeed in reconciling the environmental objective with that of the mobility of citizens, while respecting third countries. it is therefore essential to achieve a reduction in co2 emissions at the lowest cost to travellers. the effort required from aviation must be sufficient not to undermine the reductions achieved by other sectors, while being balanced so as not to penalise the growth of the aviation sector. i therefore believe that too rapid and too severe co2 reduction targets, while praiseworthy from a purely environmental point of view, are unrealistic and risk having a counterproductive effect. i hope that our vote tomorrow will take account of these various parameters.
the next item is the commission statement on comitology.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, we are now back to committee procedure. the main thing is - as you have said - to implement this agreement, which we all hailed as a success when we concluded it in july 2006. it has two aspects: the practical aspect, which i shall not go into, but also the translation into each of the directives, and today we are dealing with the 26 priority directives. in any case, i am speaking on behalf of those who have been referred to the committee on economic and monetary affairs. in this connection, i would like to express our determination to ensure that the european parliament's position when it examines these 26 priority directives is as consistent as possible. the aim is to apply the same comitology arrangement in all 26 directives, hence the idea of a parallel approach. but we know that in these negotiations the devil is in the details and we have encountered him in the course of these negotiations, particularly on three points which i would like to mention briefly. the first point concerns something which in the committee on economic and monetary affairs - but not only - has been regarded as a provocation. as regards accounting standards, an area in which the european parliament exercises its powers and competence to the full, the commission has put forward a proposal to consider that, in this area, the urgency procedure should be applied as an ex officio procedure. we did not accept it and, fortunately, i can see that we succeeded in making the commission back down on this point and in forcing it to abandon this systematic request for urgency which would have deprived parliament of any right of effective control in a field where, on the contrary, it has demonstrated its capacity to be a useful, effective and relevant actor. the second point is, of course, the question of what have been called the sunset clauses or the revision clauses. the commission and the council were very keen to see these clauses removed. they considered this to be an essential element of the comitology agreement reached last year. we have, in a spirit of cooperation, obtained that the commission be asked to verify regularly, every three years, the effectiveness and democratic functioning of the conditions for the transfer of implementing powers. i think that is a good way of doing things and i note that in the commitment that the commission has agreed to undertake through what is now called a revision clause, it is asked to look at the extent of its competence and to justify any changes in legislation or the absence of such changes. the third area is obviously the question of scope. what we see is that the council has not always followed the commission's proposals, whether it be transparency or prospectuses, the definition of crossborder missions and equivalence. i believe, however, that in a spirit of cooperation, including on the part of the portuguese presidency, we are reaching a result which should satisfy all the institutions and i welcome that.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, thank you for your constructive comments at this late hour. let me just make two short last comments. first of all, on the register, i think you are absolutely correct in underlining the need to have information about the procedure, to be well-informed about the progress of different files, and one of the measures that we have agreed on is, of course, to update our comitology register as well. this we have agreed between the institutions, and the commission is investing in this and we are sure that it will be in place by march next year. so i think at least this will help, but we will also encourage, of course, our services to work as closely as possible with the parliament. the other comment is simply to say that i hope that we agree that the whole idea behind this particular procedure is to ensure that we have a consistent and coherent application of the new rules. that is also why we have proposed this sort of package or omnibus proposals, and that is, i think, the way forward: to make sure that we follow closely what has been agreed and that we can, between the two institutions, handle it as effectively as possible as well.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the motion for a resolution on international accounting standards (b6-0437/2007).
chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. mr president, commissioner, there is a certain logic in the sequence of discussions we are having, since in this debate we are being asked to decide whether or not to adopt the so-called 'ifrs 8' standard at european union level. in a previous debate, on 25 april 2007, when this house was called upon to decide on this standard, we had made it clear that we did not consider that the conditions were right for us to do so. and there are two reasons for this. the first is that we have just made it very clear to the european commission and the council that, in our view, the convergence process in which the european union engages with third countries for the recognition of their accounting standards cannot be reduced to copying and pasting their standards with the international standard. and we considered that the process of convergence should be a mutual process. we felt that this was not the way the international organization was going about this ifrs 8 and we wanted to alert the public to this approach. the second reason for doing so is that many people warned us, and i think rightly so, that this accounting standard was being offered to all users, i.e. auditors, investors, supervisors, without any impact assessment having been carried out beforehand. we know that the commission, chaired by mr barroso, is obsessed with ensuring that, as part of this better regulation which serves as its road map, these impact assessments are formulated on a regular basis. it seems to us that what is valid at the level of the european union must also be valid with regard to the self-regulating international standardization bodies. we therefore asked the commission to carry out this impact study itself, in the absence of such a study by the international body. the commission has complied with its formal commitment by presenting the conclusions of this impact study to the economic and monetary affairs committee at the beginning of september, as agreed. however, in the future we must recognize that the scope of this study, the way in which all the parties were heard, probably deserves to be reviewed in the future, to improve the spectrum of those who are heard, so that it is not only those who are called preparers, that is to say those who draw up the accounts. however, with a desire to make progress in this debate and perhaps also to help make these international standards the reference throughout the world, this parliament is today calling for the adoption of ifrs 8 and is thus demonstrating both its sense of seriousness in the procedure for adopting accounting standards and its sense of responsibility. at a time when an important debate is taking place, particularly with the united states, on the conditions under which that country could also adopt accounting standards, we feel it is important to show our determination to do so in a clear-sighted and responsible manner. i hope that this parliament will adopt the ifrs 8 standard tomorrow, insisting that when it is revised - and this programme is already under way within the iasb, the international body responsible for developing accounting standards - the need for accurate financial information about the reality of the activities of groups will be taken into account. many ngos, in particular, are sensitive to the fact that through this information, a readability of the activity of the groups, for example mining in a particular geographical area or country by country when this is significant, can be given to those concerned by these activities. finally, i would like to say to the commission that we regard the outcome of this procedure as a very important call for the european voice to be respected in the field of equivalence and that, when impact studies are carried out, they should allow all parties to express their views.
i would like to point out that the vote will not take place tomorrow but on wednesday.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon on wednesday.
we now have to thank the six remaining colleagues, our two brave visitors in the gallery, the 15 officials and our 69 interpreters - they outnumber all the other spectators combined - for their participation. (the sitting was closed at 11.50 p.m.)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened carefully to mr barroso, as we all have. he has given us details of the commission's strategic objectives, with growth and employment, of course, at the centre of all the priorities. nevertheless, i noted in his speech, as in the commission's communication, a singular shortcoming on which i would now like to ask the president of the commission a very specific question. is it true that on 23 october last the college of commissioners discussed a proposal by mr mandelson concerning european companies which have relocated their production to third countries with low wage costs? the proposal would exempt these companies from the anti-dumping duties applicable to products exported to the union at prices significantly below normal value. is it true that this project has received wide support and that a formal decision by the commission is due to be taken on this subject as early as 5 december? what is your response to those who see such a move as a bonus for relocation? is this not in total contradiction with the commission's communication which we are discussing today, such as the following: recent research shows that the main concern for eu citizens is the social dimension of the eu in the context of globalisation (in particular jobs and the fear of unemployment). or: the global competitiveness agenda contributes to creating lasting growth and jobs at home. other why is there no mention in your speech or in the commission's communication on its legislative programme for 2008 of a project which nevertheless refers to major policy issues such as the promotion of employment in the union, industrial policy and, more generally, the conception of the community interest in the age of globalisation? is it true that, in anticipation of major turbulence on such a subject in the event of a vote in parliament or even in the council, you are planning to bypass the legislator by opting for the guidelines? i think that my group is not the only one here who hopes to get clear answers from you to these questions, otherwise we must all consider what course we might take. if you liked the rally against the bolkestein directive, you might love the rally against the mandelson regulation.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr president of the commission, i believe that the expectations of the citizens in relation to the social dimension of european integration are still very high and that strengthening this social pillar is the weak link, if not the missing link, in the commission's strategy. we must stop opposing the strategy for growth, the completion of the internal market and the strengthening of this social pillar. it is a condition for citizens' participation, it is also simply a condition for the success of the lisbon strategy and for the strengthening of the european union's level of competitiveness and economic efficiency. in this respect, there is a striking contrast with the fact that the challenges of climate change have been taken into account since last year's spring summit, and that the commission's work programme has included them in its priorities. the same impetus is lacking in responding to the challenges of social inclusion, of a europe that works for all, that promotes more jobs but also better jobs. the declarations of intent and rhetoric are found here and there in the introduction and in the explanatory statement, but they are not reflected, or hardly so, in the concrete action programme, particularly in the matter of the legislative initiative. i will take as an example the lifelong learning, which is mentioned and is an essential counterpart to the success of the new policy of labour market reform, if we want flexicurity to be fair and effective, but there is no large ambitious programme - equivalent, for example, to what erasmus was - which not only bears fruit but also does a lot in terms of linking citizens, europeans, to the work of the european union. in the fight against social exclusion and poverty, or in promoting social protection, the proposals for action are mainly limited to non-legislative initiatives. we also regret the lack of progress on the working time directive and the interim work directive. similarly, in the field of taxation, we are forced to note that, in the absence of an initiative for a real defined corporate tax base, while there is a request from parliament, while the commissioner concerned was working on this plan, we will not move towards a fairer internal market in this area. finally, we look forward to two initiatives you have announced. on the one hand, the revision of the directive on european works councils, which has been requested by the european parliament since 2001, and on the other hand, as you mentioned, maternity leave. i would like to conclude on two deadlocks which seem to us absolutely incomprehensible and unacceptable and which concern, on the one hand, services of general economic interest and, on the other, social services of general interest. after so many white papers, green papers, communications, litigation before the court of justice, clear and repeated requests from the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee, while a consensus was reached in the council between the member states to include a new article in the lisbon treaty, giving a clear basis for a legislative initiative in co-decision with parliament on public services, services of general interest, there is still no concrete proposal. public services are at the heart of our social model. citizens want clarity on the fact that competition and internal market rules will not be applied to them in a brutal way. mr president, you must propose an initiative to parliament on this matter.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a certain irony in the commission's claim to place the citizen at the centre of the european project in its 2008 legislative programme. it is true that this poor citizen has hardly been the focus of attention in the brussels-frankfurt-luxembourg triangle, where almost all power is now concentrated in the hands of institutions which do not respect the basic criteria of democracy. so how can we claim to advance the well-being of citizens in the age of globalization, when we are abandoning the principle of the republic, which is government of the people, by the people, for the people. to care for the citizen is to respect his voice. in this sense, the lisbon treaty is an insult to the citizens of our nations, because it is a copy-and-paste of the massively rejected european constitution, because it confirms the logic of the current treaties forbidding us to pilot the euro, to protect our markets, to protect our borders against illegal immigration, and to defend ourselves in global trade negotiations. in particular - and i say this to my french colleagues in all the groups - this treaty of lisbon does not change the dogmatic conception of competition without counterbalances, without national interests, without frontiers and without concern for democracy. its charter of fundamental rights, which is the first law of the member states, sweeps away the republican citizenship which is derived from our constitution and replaces it with the most dangerous communitarianism. as for the european citizen, no one has ever met him: there is no such thing as a european citizen. so, in conclusion, if anyone here cares about the citizen, let him start by demanding and widespread a referendum on the lisbon treaty.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the convergence of television, telecommunications and the internet, television has become interactive, the viewer has become a teleactor. it can now search for content, select programs, and respond to broadcasts, but to do this it needs an ever-increasing number of devices. to make it easier to use and to avoid additional costs for the consumer, these devices must be able to communicate and work together. this is called interoperability. the report before you aims to promote this interoperability within the european union. it also aims to ensure respect for information pluralism and diversity of content in the new technological context, which calls for an active, constant and vigilant policy on the part of public authorities at national and european level.
in writing. the outermost regions (ors) are making a solid contribution to the fight against climate change and are regularly demonstrating their commitment to continue this momentum by becoming true centres of innovation in this field. i agree with the aim of including aviation in the emissions trading system. however, the ors would not be able to support the implementation of the commission's proposal as it stands, otherwise the airlines serving these regions would have no choice but to impose these new surcharges directly on the price of tickets to the detriment of overseas passengers and tourists already penalised by the high cost of travel, and on the price of air freight, leading to higher prices at the expense of consumers and businesses in the outermost regions. i thank the rapporteur for having heard my requests on this subject and the european parliament for finally endorsing the principle of special treatment for the outermost regions in this dossier. i also welcome the fact that our parliament has accepted the possibility that part of the funds from the auctions of allowances may be used to limit the negative impact of the project in terms of accessibility and competitiveness for the outlying regions.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is a general consensus in this chamber that the next enlargement is not only historic but also of great symbolic value. this consensus is not just institutional, and that would be very important, it is also a social consensus, it is what our citizens want, they want it rightly, and it is good that the union's institutions are able to listen to their citizens and to respond in time to their aspirations. that's what we did. i am very grateful for the positive references, and i commend the work carried out not only by the portuguese presidency but also by all those who had to contribute at the exact moment so that the many pieces of this complex puzzle were all ready and could work as they should. this is not the picture that was before us just a year ago, and this is not just a technological achievement, which would be very important in itself, it is also a political achievement that our institutions have made in front of the citizens, which reinforces the credibility of our institutions. secondly, let me stress that the new external borders are a good christmas present, and a christmas present for all our citizens, but they are also a new way of managing external relations. we do not want to create for our neighbours a second-generation iron curtain: which is the beginning of an electronic border, severe in intercepting criminals and agile, like everything electronic, in allowing the swift passage of good-faith citizens, whoever they are, wherever they come from. this is the model that europe presents to the world, and this is the commitment to which we are committed. thirdly, this work and this victory are based on meticulous preparation which has made the sisone4all project partner states very well equipped and with a logic of police preparedness which we must articulate with new measures, in particular with the reinforcement of frontex, recently announced by the commission, and with our new model of integrated border management. it is therefore part of a more complex policy which must be pursued and intensified. fourthly, i would like to stress that one of the secrets of the success of this project is that we have managed to combine security and freedom, freedom of movement, much more freedom of movement, with adequate data protection. the one and the other are inseparable, they are not separable. that is our european path and there is consensus and important consensus between the commission, the council and the european parliament on that point too. there's no other way, this is the only way. this rule applies to sisone4all and will also apply to sis ii, the second generation schengen information system, as is stated in the legislation approved with the seal and the mark of the european parliament and following the suggestions of the report also authored by mr carlos coelho. i should also say that the same applies to the question of the management of secrecy and transparency. secrecy and transparency can be balanced and the optimum balance achieved so that all decision-makers have the information they need to make informed decisions. that is what has been achieved in this process and it is certainly a point where we can look forward to future successes in an excellent relationship between the commission and the council on this essential point. finally, let me stress again the importance of the method we have chosen. we don't run away from bad news and unpleasant news. in 2006, we detected that there was a serious problem and we became aware of that serious problem. we have taken it not in a blame-shame position but in a position to find positive ways and to solve problems by exemplary cooperation between institutions. i have no complaints about the commission's behaviour throughout the process and i think the commission has no complaints about the behaviour of the council as it has been managed by the german presidency, now by the portuguese presidency and in the future by the slovenian presidency and future ones. this is the kind of cooperation i believe is necessary to solve european problems. finally, i think we should savour victory and prepare for the future. i would therefore like to invite the representatives of the european parliament to join us on the commemoration of 21 and 22 december, this journey, this symbolic journey through places that were once symbols of closure and which will be symbols of freedom, which is the air, the oxygen that makes life and happiness in europe, from 21 december.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. i too am very pleased with the outcome of this debate. it is clear that the result we have before us today shows that the countries which will join schengen on 21 and 22 december, and their citizens, really deserve this christmas present, so to speak. they deserve it because we have worked together over the last 12 to 15 months to overcome some technical difficulties - the praise for the portuguese government today, for the portuguese presidency is never enough - but they have done their part. they have overcome difficulties and gaps in airports, border posts, personnel training that only 12, 13, 14 months ago seemed difficult to overcome. that is why this has been called a christmas present in a very nice way, if i have really earned it, and i can say this because i have also personally visited many border posts together with many colleagues, ministers of the interior, who have shown me from one visit to another the great strides that have been made. i believe that this step is a major political action by europe with a strong social impact, that is, on the citizens. this is a major political move because from 21 december each member state will consider the external borders of another member state to be its own. i, an italian, will consider the distant border between poland and ukraine as my own border. that will be my country's border and that is the political effect of this decision which europe has been able to take in a very reasonable time. and then there is the social impact, the social impact on the daily lives of citizens, i would say that it goes beyond the symbolic effect of no longer standing in line at a border, at a border post. it means that every law-abiding european citizen will feel at home in any other country of the european union. this means free movement, this means not showing your passport, this means not just not standing in line at border controls, but feeling that european citizenship has become a reality. many raised the issue of security: i fully agree with what minister magalhães has just said. it is clear that security and freedom must go hand in hand. the more we promote the expansion of this right, of this great freedom, the more we must prevent criminals from taking advantage of this great freedom to increase their trafficking and their illegal activities. that is why this europe, this great schengen area, will not be a fortress but will certainly protect the citizens of the european union from criminal flows. and it is clear that the schengen system, now the schengen one for all system, then the schengen ii system, will have to be equipped with the best technologies, because it is clear that criminals escape controls, or tend to escape controls and we must be able to have technological tools, for example the use of biometrics in full respect of everyone's freedoms but to prevent, so to speak, temptation. i would like to say one last thing, because what struck me most was the reference to europe's neighbours. it is clear that an enlarged schengen area must not entail the risk of closing ourselves off from those countries which are now the border countries of the great schengen frontiers. you know that with this schengen system we have to control and manage - and frontex's role will be increasing - the 80,000 km of external borders of the european union. it's a huge thing, just think about it, but we have to do it. this must not be at the expense of our neighbours, the reports mentioned, the russian federation, ukraine, moldova and the countries of the western balkans. we have started a process and i ask you once again today, as you give the final go-ahead for this action, to confirm as the european parliament your support for the process i proposed to the council, and which the council of ministers agreed to, a visa policy that is renewed, that is aimed at facilitating the movement of honest people, that is accompanied by measures for the security of documents, for the identification of persons, for the use of biometrics, but that gives citizens who now live very close to each other, but not within this european area, a concrete instrument to be able to go one day to see a theatrical performance in vienna or to come to see the colosseum in rome or to go to lisbon without those tremendous difficulties which today are there to obtain a visa which also costs a great deal. so the way is: let us make visa policy an instrument of neighbourhood policy and let us do so at the same time as we are enlarging the schengen area. this would be, i hope, another political step, purely political, not bureaucratic or strictly legal. it is a message which we send politically to other states and to the citizens of those states who look at us from the neighbourhood of europe and who should not look at us with envy because we are free to move about and they cannot even go to attend a university course in any european city. to ensure that there is no envy and that europe is loved by our neighbours, we are accompanying the enlargement of schengen with a friendly policy, using visas and greater freedom of movement as a strategic tool.
i would point out to the honourable members that at the end of this debate i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), a motion for a resolution. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of noise. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the euromed ministerial conference on migration. before i turn to the council and then to the commission, i would ask my colleagues to really respect their speaking time, because the margin we had has been reduced. it is true that the previous debate was important. in principle, if everyone keeps to his time of speech, everything will be perfect.
for the greens/efa group mr president, everyone has said that migration, including this morning, is a priority for the union and for euromed relations. this is a major challenge for people who are often forced to leave their lands, which are ravaged by poverty, desertification, floods, war, in short. will the euromed ministerial conference be up to the challenge? nothing is less certain. the preparatory documents are hopelessly hollow. how can this be surprising when we know that no field organisation - among those who, every day, are faced with the situation of migrants in transit, wandering, in danger on mediterranean waters - none of them has been involved in their preparation, not even unhcr. the preliminary conclusions ignore the right to asylum, the illegal detention of migrants, their rights, whether they are illegal or not, the unacceptable violence they suffer, especially that of migrant women, the rights of minors, the criminalisation of assistance to migrants. the eu's international commitments and the conventions it is supposed to implement or ratify are at a standstill: the geneva convention for some, the convention on the rights of migrant workers and members of their families for all the countries of the european union. where do we really hope to end up with such a euro-mediterranean policy, with such a lack of requirements in the area of the common rights and obligations of the states? what's the risk? the risk is that of a screen of legal migration selected by hand, behind which massive violations of the rights of everyone else are perpetuated. if it were to spare sensitive issues by abandoning an ambitious policy, the conference would be preparing for its futility. it would therefore justify in advance the proliferation of bilateral agreements such as the italy-libya type, signed in secret, which violate the principle of non-refoulement with impunity. it's not too late to act. invite unhcr, invite a representative of ngos, start from the original document of the southern mediterranean countries, much more ambitious, and the conference, perhaps, will have a chance to mark a positive and significant step.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to take a few seconds to express my support, our support, to commissioner frattini and to say to him forcefully that the attacks on him on the roma issue in italy are intolerable. we all know the values that the commissioner defends, the values of defending human rights, the values that are those of the european union, and on those values you are an unassailable man. turning to euromed, i welcome the organisation of the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference on migration to be held in the algarve, which will be the first of its kind devoted solely to the issue of migration flows in the euro-mediterranean region. the issue of migration flows is a key point which must be at the centre of our dialogue, partnership and cooperation with the euro-mediterranean countries, in the continuity of the rabat and tripoli conferences. in this area, the member states of the european union cannot act alone. we need the support and cooperation of these partner countries, which are often source countries or transit countries, to make our migration policy more effective. we must find a consensus with them on return policy, increase readmission agreements, and jointly pursue a smart policy of co-development so that nationals of these states can remain in their countries and contribute to their growth. the question of flow management has a safety dimension, but it also has a human dimension which should not be neglected. i therefore hope that, with due regard for fundamental rights, it will be one of the themes of this conference. i hope that this meeting will be an opportunity for open and realistic exchanges, so that we can find together the most appropriate solutions for both sides.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am also pleased that the subject of immigration has been chosen for the next meeting of the euromed foreign ministers. i think that we have so far failed to put in place a european immigration policy. we know that this is a difficult question because it concerns the sovereignty of the member states, which want to make the principle of subsidiarity extremely strict in this matter. we also know that the question of immigration, or migration, is a contentious issue with our partners in the south, who often reproach us for approaching it from a purely security perspective. i thank commissioner frattini for taking a much more comprehensive approach to this issue, which includes the economic and social dimensions of migration flows. legal and illegal immigration are two sides of the same coin and it is not possible to combat illegal immigration without at the same time establishing legal pathways for immigration into europe. i am therefore pleased that the draft blue card, the european equivalent of the american green card, and the legal immigration channels advocated by the council take account of european economic needs, but also correspond to the real needs of the countries of the south. as regards the issue of visas, i believe that the union must make it easier for students, researchers and civil society actors to obtain them. i believe that readmission agreements, particularly with algeria and morocco, must ensure that any return procedure is strictly governed by mechanisms that guarantee respect for the rights of migrants. finally, in view of the new migration we are facing from sub-saharan africa, i strongly support the idea that europe should not use the barcelona process to relegate to the borders of the mediterranean area the management of flows that it is unable to deal with at its own borders.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 27 june this year the commission presented a proposal based on article 191 of the treaty on the european community, which aims to improve and adjust regulation 2004/2003 on the statute and funding of political parties at european level. this proposal was followed by a report assessing the application of a regulation adopted by the european parliament on 23 march 2006. the commission proposal introduces a new feature: the possibility of funding foundations at european level, given that they have an important role to play in supporting and promoting the activities and objectives of political parties at european level. since political foundations are closely linked to european political parties, it is proposed that they apply for funding through the european political party to which they are linked and under the same legal basis applicable to their funding, i.e. article 191 of the treaty on the european communities. i know that the political parties represented in this parliament are setting up, or have already set up, foundations at european level, and the council welcomes the possibility of community financial support for the activities of these foundations within the framework of very clear rules which, among other things, make it possible to distinguish clearly between the spheres of action of the parties, which must be complementary and not overlapping. the second main part of the commission proposal is aimed at improving the financial provisions governing the financing of political parties at european level in the light of the experience gained in the meantime. the commission proposes, among other measures, two exceptions to the rule of non-profit provision in article 109 of the financial regulation. the first measure is the possibility of transferring up to 25% of total annual revenues from one year to the first quarter of the following year to enable parties to better respond to changing political circumstances and priorities. the second measure is to allow political parties at european level to build up financial reserves by saving party-generated revenues that exceed a new minimum co-financing level of 15%. i would also like to stress that, according to the proposal, it should be made very clear that appropriations from the community budget may also be used to finance campaigns organised by political parties at european level in the context of elections to the european parliament, provided that this does not constitute direct or indirect funding of national political parties or their candidates. in the council the proposal was first examined three times by the general affairs group in september and october of this year and was generally welcomed by the delegations. however, some delegations expressed concerns about the proposed legal basis and the derogations from budgetary discipline. the council's legal service was consulted on this issue and considered that the derogations from the no-profit rule laid down in article 109 (2) of council regulation (ec) no 1605/2002 could only be laid down in a separate regulation based on article 279 tec and intended to introduce these derogations into the financial regulation itself by amending it. this procedure involves splitting the proposal into two legal acts and consulting the european parliament and the court of auditors. on 17 october 2007, coreper ii discussed for the first time a compromise text submitted by the presidency and the proposal of the council's legal service. on 24 october 2007, one week later, coreper agreed on: first, the splitting of the proposal into two legal acts, a regulation based on article 279 tec containing the provisions amending the financial regulation and a regulation containing the remaining provisions of the proposal based on article 191 tec; second, the consultation of the european parliament and the court of auditors on the amendment of article 109 of regulation 1605/2002 in line with article 279 tec, which was carried out immediately. the two compromise texts resulting from the split were examined by the general affairs group on 9 november 2007, so very recently. and that is why i am very pleased to announce that the general affairs group, which met last friday, has found that there is broad agreement between the national delegations on the subject matter of the two regulations resulting from the split. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission, parliament and the council agree on the essential points concerning the political foundations at european level and the modification of the provisions governing the functioning of european political parties. the question of the legal basis was, and is, a strictly technical legal matter and it was not, nor is it, the council's intention to prevent an agreement between the three institutions. i can tell you on behalf of the council that we want the two regulations resulting from the split to be adopted by the end of this year so that they can enter into force on 1 january 2008. i therefore propose to you, i propose to this parliament, that you postpone the vote on your opinion scheduled for this week so that through appropriate contacts we can reach an agreement at first reading on the codecision act based on article 191 of the treaty. in that case, parliament's opinion on the amendment of the financial regulation should be adopted as soon as possible. we have asked the court of auditors for the same brevity. we have little time, but we believe that is enough time to adopt the two regulations under the conditions desired by parliament, the commission and, i repeat, the council.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, from the period of reflection we learnt that there is a clear demand and opportunity for measures to reinforce and expand the political dialogue. i have always said that if we want to create a european public sphere, then we also need to create more of a european political culture, and this particular issue is absolutely crucial to doing so. certainly, there is no single magic solution to bridge the gap between european politics and our citizens and there is no simple way to meet the democratic aspirations of citizens and their desire to be more actively involved. these aspirations must be promoted by a very wide range of initiatives with common purposes to ensure the broadest possible participation of citizens, including, not least, young people, and, i would add women, in the democratic life of the union. the activities of european political parties, together with the creation of european political foundations, is part and parcel of building this real european public sphere, where different opinions can challenge each other and the citizens can better understand the challenges at stake and make informed choices. political debate and political controversy are part of democracy and we hope that this will also help to increase the turnout for the european parliament elections. i am happy to say that the commission and parliament have always agreed on this issue. the commission was able to respond quickly to parliament’s request and our proposal was also strongly supported by parliament’s committee on constitutional affairs. on 25 october, i stated before this house my concerns that coreper had decide to follow a route which departed from that of the commission and parliament, and these concerns were shared by members, including president pöttering and mr leinen. but i also expressed my hope that the key objective of the council, parliament and the commission would continue to be the same: the approval of the substance of our proposal before the end of this year. three weeks later, and having heard what the presidency stated, i can only welcome the recent developments and express my satisfaction that we are on a common route again. the council has been listening and the working group last friday unanimously confirmed the full substance of our proposal. this means that we can now move on. but, even though the agreement reached in council is an important step forward and very positive news, this is not yet the end of the process. we need to finalise the details in order to allow for a speedy adoption and entry into force of this regulation. even if the splitting of our proposal does not ultimately affect its substance, it entails a separate, more complicated legislative procedure and an opinion from the court of auditors, which, i hope, will be delivered in time. the schedule is very challenging and tight. i would like to thank mr leinen for his committed work on this file, and all the other members involved. i also want to thank president pöttering, the conference of presidents and the political groups, who played an important role in preparing the ground for an agreement on this issue. so, madam president, president of the council, mr leinen, juntos podemos avançar.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. madam president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion on budgetary control i emphasized the four requirements which i considered essential: improving the control mechanisms and, in this respect, strengthening the powers of the internal and external auditors and the authorising officer by delegation; establish additional checks; establish a clear separation between the financial resources of political parties and foundations; finally, clarify the rules on campaign finance for the european elections. i am glad that the council is accepting the famous 25% rule that ingeborg grässle proposed last year, and which the council rejected. we have understood that the agreement given this year was of a particularly derogating nature in relation to this report. however, a certain hesitation as to the legal basis of this report led us to doubt the outcome of the vote at the end of this part-session, which is regrettable. parliament has drawn up this report and the opinions very quickly. it would be a pity if the council's decision to split the report in two were to waste our time. we therefore hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible before the end of the year. thank you for that.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that the general budget is the one that guarantees the right to the protection of personal data. article 24 is a derogation, that is to say it provides that in a certain area and for certain types of information and data there is a special regime. this does not mean, in my view, that when the general principle is violated there are no means of protection, because there is obviously no cancellation of the general principle, there is a derogation from the procedural treatment which is justified by the fact that we are in an area which is that of the common security and foreign policy. but i repeat, in my view - and this is an interpretation which i give to the state only as a personal one, because the treaty has not yet been signed and ratified - my assessment is that when there is a general rule, if there are specific derogations, these derogations cannot cancel the right, they can regulate the way in which that right is enjoyed, which is obviously different.
vice-president of the commission. as you know perfectly well, i have tried to undertake in the past personal initiatives under a political point of view, even though in some cases i was not formally authorised by the council to do that. i am talking about putting at your disposal some documents, elements or information, without previous formal consultation with the council. i understand perfectly your concerns. but i cannot act alone. i had to get authorisation in some cases and consensus in some other cases. i can repeat to you what i said once to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i am ready to engage with parliament in a political process of close consultation, although the treaty is not yet signed or ratified. i am talking about a political consultation in the sense that we can think about moving ahead as if the treaty were in force. that is, frankly speaking, my political and personal position because i am not so sure, and i do not know, whether the council would be in agreement with such a position. this principle could apply, for example, to the adoption of a framework decision on data protection which should be adopted, in my view, before december, after close consultation, not only by getting just an opinion by parliament but by taking into full account amendments, proposals and formal and substantial integration. are you sure that the council will agree on such a position? i am not so sure, but i will be insisting on trying to persuade the council to move ahead in this direction.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is worth recalling that it is at your request that the commission has come today to share with you some reflections on the dispute between the united states and the european union over the support given by the governments concerned to airbus and boeing. these cases have been a lot of ink. let us first recall the main elements. what's the problem? the us government claims that the funds that european governments have invested in airbus are in contradiction with wto rules on subsidies. in october 2004, the united states unilaterally and without prior notification withdrew from a bilateral treaty signed with the european union in 1992, which explicitly allowed such investment, and the united states therefore brought the matter to the wto. the european union took note of the fact that the united states preferred litigation to negotiation and asked the wto to declare the us subsidies to boeing illegal. where are we three years later, despite several attempts in recent years to settle the dispute amicably? the differences between the two sides did not allow this. the united states denied that it had granted subsidies to boeing, while demanding as a precondition for any negotiations that the european union cease to grant airbus the support it had previously granted through the system of repayable advances. i think you will agree that in these circumstances it is impossible to establish a fair and balanced basis for a negotiated settlement. a few weeks ago, boeing publicly rejected the last olive branch, if i may say so, that airbus had laid. it was october 18th. we are therefore sceptical about the prospects of resolving this dispute in the near future by negotiation. this means that we will continue to defend at the wto the european support for airbus, which has enabled the aeronautical industry to innovate and increase the safety and efficiency of air traffic. it should be noted that airbus has repaid 40% more than it has received from european governments since 1992 and has so far paid back more than eur 7 billion. we therefore hope that the panel will demonstrate that the rather modest sums that europe has provided in the form of r & d aid and repayable advances have not affected boeing's competitiveness. i think you can judge for yourself. boeing has just announced that its new b-787 dreamliner is the most commercially successful aircraft in history. this aircraft, which is the most commercially successful aircraft ever recorded, may well also be the most heavily subsidized aircraft. in preparation for a wto hearing in september of this year, we have provided what i believe is strong evidence of the subsidies the united states has given to boeing for this aircraft. we have shown that this financial support amounts to $24 billion from federal and state authorities, including $16 billion from nasa and the department of defense, in the form of aerospace research and development aid, which has enabled boeing to obtain state-of-the-art technology and know-how in the field of aeronautics. in addition, illegal state subsidies tailored to boeing have been granted, notably in washington state, where boeing received subsidies amounting to usd 4 billion, but also in kansas, in the form of boeing bonds, and in illinois. thirdly, illegal export aid which boeing continues to receive under the fsc-eti, foreign sales corporation and extraterritorial income exclusion legislation, despite the fact that the wto has repeatedly prohibited it. once the wto has decided, probably in 2008, it is very likely that we will not be at the end of the story. both may decide to appeal, which could put us back to 2009. we tend to believe that once the wto has ruled on both cases, it would be logical to discuss with the united states the follow-up to that decision, but we cannot be sure that this will lead to real negotiations, of course. in conclusion, the commission considers that the settlement of the dispute by negotiation would provide the long-term solution needed by the market to ensure healthy and fair competition in the aeronautics sector in the future. if not, the commission will continue to defend europe's interests resolutely and vigorously before the wto. after all, it is not only the ability of airbus to compete fairly that is at stake, but also, of course, suppliers, airlines and their customers who must reap the benefits of healthy competition between the major civil aviation manufacturers. this competition between airbus and boeing must be exercised on the market and we see it as intense, but also fair and reasonable. but this is not the case if the american competitor is trying to portray some of our member states as, and i quote, 'unreliable aviation trading partners who pose a risk to the security and the mobilization capacity of the american military' or if the same competitor is trying to get legislation passed in the us congress to block funds to improve american airports in preparation for the arrival of the a380. this kind of campaign is damaging to transatlantic relations and is inappropriate for a company that calls itself global, and sometimes even european when it suits it. however, the message we would like to send today is that at the official level, both the european union and the united states have tried to avoid this dispute damaging their partnership and i think we have succeeded. we want to keep it that way and we are confident that the us government will also ensure that the dispute between airbus and boeing does not affect the ability of these two companies to compete fairly in public procurement. in particular, any anti-competitive legislative or executive measures which would limit the ability of european companies to compete in the current us plan to recapitalize the aircraft refuelling industry should be avoided. we would like to stress the important role that the european parliament and the national parliaments of the countries concerned can play in monitoring the situation. your interparliamentary contacts will be a very valuable help in getting this message across the european union and perhaps even across the atlantic.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i also speak on behalf of mrs tokia saïfi, member of the committee on international trade. boeing's complaint against airbus at the wto is very much like the bad loser reflex. this is an industrial group that for decades dominated the market and then, in the early 2000s, in 2003, in 2004, airbus overtook boeing. who could have imagined this twenty years ago? and that's when the boeing complaint to the wto came up. a welcome complaint when you know that, for all time, the american manufacturer has benefited from important military research and development programs from the pentagon or nasa. the number of technologies that have been first used on military aircraft is considerable, and boeing is in fact benefiting from a free transfer of technology from the military to the civilian sector, as well as from various tax subsidies from the us government. what is the advantage of airbus to the european manufacturer? not grants, but repayable advances which, as their name suggests, are repayable. and not only are they repayable, but as you said, commissioner, the amounts repaid are far beyond what has been lent, since it depends on the number of aircraft sold and, in almost the whole airbus range, all the aircraft have been successes. and that will surely be the case tomorrow, when we know the orders that have been piling up in the last few days for the a-380 and the a-350. the system also operates in full public view and transparency. airbus does not receive any hidden aid. i say to you, commissioner, on my own behalf and on behalf of my elected colleagues in the european parliament's aviation intergroup: we will be vigilant, very vigilant on this matter. we expect from you - and you have given us assurances on this point, commissioner - a strong defence of the economic interests of the european manufacturer. the role of the european union, like that of the united states, is not to outbid the wto, but to call on partners to negotiate their differences bilaterally.
for the gue/ngl group the commission's explanations confirm that for the united states, liberalism is primarily an export product. it is worth noting that in this matter, as in others, we are often willing to buy the rope that will be used to hang us. the us and japanese governments are massively helping boeing through military procurement and public and parapublic research. so the boeing 787, it has been said in this chamber, will be the most heavily subsidized civilian aircraft in history. the commission must defend airbus before the wto, without fail. it is her duty and the citizens will judge her by the pieces. airbus benefits from the system of refundable advances. this system is efficient and healthy. it prevents airbus from falling under the dictatorship of the financial markets. it allows states to avoid being robbed of the money they invest in aeronautics. it is essential to complete this system with a strengthened aeronautical research policy, which would bring the european effort up to the level of that of the united states. it is about our competitiveness for today and tomorrow. indeed, there can be no aerospace industry without massive intervention and support from the public authorities. the incompetence and vigilance of the two main private shareholders of eads are proof of this. i would add that galileo's difficulties prove this beyond all doubt. i am convinced that the only way to ensure the future of airbus is to make eads the first european company to have a majority shareholding in the public sector. this proposal for the future was also put forward by many trade unionists at the hearing on airbus organized by my group on 28 march. we believe that the airbus management must urgently withdraw the power 8 plan, a plan which is only intended to model the airbus industrial model on that of boeing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. europe needs a strong aerospace industry that creates jobs. to do this, it must give employees strong powers of intervention in the strategy of their company.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this debate and the presence of the commission to discuss the legal dispute between europe and the united states since 2004, when washington brought an action before the wto against european aid to airbus. in the face of this attack, europe and the european commission in particular must show determination and conviction in defending a sector whose economic importance is no longer to be demonstrated. the civil aviation sector in europe, of which airbus is the flagship, is the world's showcase for european collaboration and european technological know-how. at a time when the us congress has given its full support to boeing, it is the duty of the european commission and europe as a whole to commit themselves politically to airbus. with a few weeks to go until the wto dispute settlement body makes its decision, it seems to me essential that the european union reaffirm its support for airbus. the question is much more than a simple conflict between two giants of aeronautics. it concerns our ability to defend a certain vision of european commitment to our major projects and industries. our industrial policy must not be limited to the union's competition policy alone. the complaint lodged by the united states before the wto against the european system of reimbursable advances in the field of aeronautics seems to me to be unfounded and surprising. unfounded because, by definition, repayable advances are repaid. so much so that european states have been able to make returns on investment and airbus has since 1992 repaid 40% more than what was paid to it. moreover, the us criticism seems all the more unfounded as the bilateral agreement signed between the eu and the us in 1992 and broken - this was said by the commissioner - unilaterally by the latter in 2004, allowed direct and indirect government aid to the civil aviation industry. this complaint is also surprising, because the us accuses airbus of being subsidized even though boeing enjoys a near monopoly over large us military and nasa equipment programs and public support for military development programs. thus, unlike us indirect aid which is not reimbursed and which is incompatible with the provisions of the scm agreement and gatt 1994, the reimbursable advance system cannot be considered as an infringement of wto rules. i therefore hope that the european commission will firmly defend this legitimate position. in this context and in view of the extreme importance of this case for the future of the european aviation industry, what specific arguments does the commission intend to develop in defence of airbus before the wto? i would also like to stress the risk for both the united states and the european union that some or all of their public aid mechanisms for aviation will be condemned by the wto. in order to avoid this, the parties had discussed the possibility of an amicable solution. can the european commission say whether it intends to follow this path, as has been mentioned? it is essential to explore all possible solutions, because the future of thousands of people, businesses and regions across europe depends on this sector and the positive outcome of this conflict.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i think i can express on behalf of commissioner mandelson our appreciation for the unanimous support for the fierce and just defence of european interests in this matter. two people asked if we should try to restart a friendly negotiation. obviously i cannot answer for commissioner mandelson, but what i can say is that to negotiate amicably, it takes two people in this case. the european commission is certainly prepared to negotiate amicably, provided that it is done in conditions of transparency, in conditions of force, because the case initiated and presented by commissioner mandelson seems to me extremely convincing. this was said by several speakers. i think i can say that we are in a strong position. as regards the call for vigilance, the way in which the commission has spoken and the way in which my colleague, commissioner mandelson, has dealt with the matter, is sufficient to indicate that we are extremely vigilant on this subject, for the legitimate reasons which have been forcefully expressed in all your speeches. so you can count on the commission. i will of course convey to commissioner mandelson your strongest support and your most vigilant and committed expectations on a subject which does indeed directly involve the interests of the european economy.
boeing and airbus have been accusing each other of receiving illegal government subsidies for years. this game of cross-complaints in deliberation at the wto dispute body continues to fuel the dispute between the two largest aircraft manufacturers in the world. these allegations of subsidies and direct aids, if confirmed and acknowledged, constitute serious impediments to the world economic system and in fact create a distortion of the free market with severe damage to the competitive system dictated by the wto. but at a time when we are advocating a global system free of rights and unfettered, this trade war is a dent in the world competition that claims to be fair and just. only the wto's judicial body will be able to reach impartial conclusions. nevertheless, we know that boeing is determined to position itself as a world leader and the complaint should not be seen as an attempt to destabilize the aircraft manufacturer airbus. this trade dispute is delicate but should not, however, undermine transatlantic cooperation at a time when the doha round is at a standstill and a favourable outcome is expected by the end of the year.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank again all the speakers in the debate this evening for their extremely positive contributions. the commission supports the adoption of the report on the regional impact of earthquakes. citizens expect member states and institutions to act effectively and in a spirit of solidarity when faced with disasters. preventing environmental and human-induced damage involves strengthening and developing civil protection resources and capabilities at local, national and european levels. the commission is confident that parliament will continue to share and support this objective in the future. finally, i would like to remind members that on 22 and 23 november the commission will be holding the second civil protection forum in brussels. the forum will bring together some 500 participants who are involved in or interested in civil protection. it will offer participants the opportunity to exchange ideas and meet other people with the same interest in civil protection and in the same occupation. so i invite the ladies and gentlemen of the house to join the forum and meet the civil protection community. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bacali, on his excellent report.
in writing. tectonic movements are manifested not only by earthquakes but also by volcanic eruptions. in addition, the effects of these natural hazards can be aggravated, particularly by landslides and tsunamis. the outermost regions of the european union (eu), which are very regularly affected by such disasters, have developed a decisive experience in terms of observing the phenomena, prevention and response. i hope that the commission and the member states will encourage the creation of centres of excellence in innovation, both scientific, technological and architectural, in the regions affected by these natural disasters, and particularly in the outlying regions. the dual objective of these structures would be to guarantee the security of the population and to enable the sustainable development of the territories, through interregional cooperation and the networking of research establishments, smes and local authorities in these regions. i thank the rapporteur for approving my amendments on this subject and i would like to assure him of my full support in his new request to the commission to publish rapidly an ambitious proposal for the creation of a genuine european civil protection force.
member of the commission. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank and congratulate mr cornillet on his report, which perfectly identifies the challenges facing humanitarian aid, and above all for the fact that it also perfectly identifies the ways forward for european humanitarian action. this report is a decisive contribution to the joint work being carried out by parliament, the council and the commission to establish the future european consensus on humanitarian aid. our common objective is to formalize our common vision and approach to humanitarian aid policy in a joint declaration by the three institutions. it is quite clear that, for me, the active involvement of the european parliament is an indispensable condition for the success of this process of adopting the declaration. let me briefly recall the reason for such a political initiative. the answer lies largely in the fact that the humanitarian context has changed in recent years and that we need to adapt if we are to continue to deliver coherent and effective humanitarian action. what are these major changes, what are these major challenges? i think they can be summed up like this. first, there is an increase in the number and deadly nature of conflicts and natural disasters, the latter in particular often being the consequence of climate change. the recent floods in mexico are a testament to the reality and scale of this worrying trend. secondly, we are also seeing a proliferation of complex crises and profound changes in the nature of conflict. the methods and means used in armed conflicts, for example, make the work of humanitarian organisations increasingly complex. the risk of attacks and the looting of aid is also a sadly daily reality, whether in darfur or somalia, in sri lanka or burma, in colombia or in the east of the drc. we are also witnessing, with increasing systematicity, the violation of international humanitarian law and thus the restriction of humanitarian space. the risk of confusion between the political and humanitarian agenda is ever present. i am convinced that the european union, as the world's largest donor - i would nevertheless like to point out, i think it is important, that we together account for 40% of world humanitarian aid - but also as a political pillar of international law and multilateralism, has, i believe, a special responsibility to ensure effective and adequate humanitarian aid. we can and must be a political driving force, i would also say a political benchmark and reference force. this is the context in which we decided to launch, almost a year ago, the initiative to define an explicit consensus on humanitarian aid at the level of the european union. these are concerns which are very well reflected in mr cornillet's report and i can of course only support the important elements which the european parliament wishes to emphasize and defend with a view to the development of a european humanitarian consensus. this consensus, and appropriate follow-up involving all the member states of the union of twenty-seven and the community, will provide for the first time a common political foundation of values, objectives and principles to which both the member states of the european union and the commission subscribe, and will strengthen complementarity and coordination between member states and the commission. what are the main elements of the draft consensus? first, respect for the humanitarian principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence. you obviously know what he's talking about. secondly, the need to strengthen respect for and enforcement of international humanitarian law at the international level. a quick aside: i remember, i won't name any countries, but i remember, not so long ago, i was in a theatre of particularly dramatic humanitarian operations, and i was questioning an official of the country, who was still responsible for what was happening there, and i said to him, "but you don't respect international humanitarian law". he got this answer, which was absolutely terrible: "that's true, but we are in a time of war". it is clear that international humanitarian law is precisely made, it is precisely made for times of war. and so, you can imagine how, deep down, we are moving further and further away, in a way without reacting, or we accept moving further and further away from the most basic standards in this matter. thirdly, the need to improve donor practices and methods, as well as the quality of partnership with humanitarian organisations, in order to improve aid effectiveness. fourthly, the voluntary commitment of the member states to strengthen the complementarity and coordination of our humanitarian action, and this is obviously all the more necessary now that we have just expanded to twenty-seven states. the future consensus will also have to provide a general framework that specifies the articulation of humanitarian aid with other external policies of the european union. all this is aimed at enhancing the coherence and effectiveness of the european union's humanitarian action. all this will contribute greatly to strengthening the international system under the auspices of the united nations, and i would also like to stress this point. the promotion of a european approach is obviously not intended to weaken or challenge the central role of the united nations. on the contrary, it will only strengthen this central role and i am sometimes a little saddened to see some reluctance towards this european consensus, on the grounds that it would be a form of competition with the united nations. it's not that at all. it is, on the contrary, to strengthen the european pillar in the framework of the united nations, of course. the draft text of the consensus declaration clearly refers to the elements of the consensus which will, in a certain way, form the humanitarian doctrine of the european union in the future. i would like to express my deep appreciation for the work of parliament and the portuguese presidency in the negotiations on the text. we are now reaching the final stages of this trilateral procedure, which should enable us to achieve the ambition of signing a joint declaration by the three institutions on 18 december. this declaration of consensus is, of course, the beginning of a process. it's not an end in itself, it's the beginning of a process. we are aware that this approach will require considerable effort to ensure that our words are translated into action. to this end, we will present early next year an action plan for the implementation of the future humanitarian consensus. during the months of discussions in preparation for the consensus, the european parliament made some very specific suggestions which we think are very appropriate to include in the action plan, such as your proposal to draw up an atlas of humanitarian aid along the lines of the development atlas. let me add a few words on two subjects of particular interest to our colleagues in this house. these are issues which touch on almost philosophical conceptions of humanitarianism, which are today at the centre of certain discussions and which are also issues, particularly for the purpose of humanitarian aid. first, the question of the responsibility to protect. following parliament's suggestion, we have recalled in the draft text of the consensus the commitments made in this respect by states within the un and the international community. i would like to stress that humanitarian action and the responsibility to protect are two different approaches, even if there is an important common element, namely to combat human suffering. we need to avoid confusing these approaches, because obviously this risks undermining the perception of neutrality and independence of humanitarian actors, which is essential to our ability to help people in humanitarian crises. the concept of the responsibility to protect is still very ambiguous. this concept is, historically, and still today very largely linked to the idea of the right of intervention and military interventionism for humanitarian purposes, in extreme circumstances, for example to prevent genocide. but this interpretation is precisely the cause of the rejection of the concept of the responsibility to protect by regimes that see it as a political cover for the west in order to justify their imperialism, to justify interventions motivated not by humanitarian interests but by power interests. there is sometimes confusion between this doctrine of the responsibility to protect and the humanitarian action of protection which, among other things, has traditionally been part of the mandate of the icrc. we fully support the latter type of activity through our humanitarian aid. the cornillet report also raises a very relevant question concerning the institutional framework for the debate on humanitarian issues. parliament has appointed a permanent rapporteur on humanitarian aid, which we very much welcome. mr cornillet's report rightly raises the question of these interlocutors in the council. on behalf of the commission, we are very grateful for the considerable efforts made by the portuguese presidency to give the council the time it needed to prepare the consensus within the development working party. the institutional decision to set up a council group on humanitarian affairs is of course a matter for the member states, but i fully agree with mr cornillet that we must find an appropriate body which can systematically address humanitarian policy issues on an equal footing with the other external policies of the union. humanitarian aid remains neutral and independent of political or other objectives, but there is no political vacuum. on the contrary, the issues and actors that threaten the humanitarian space are political in nature. the lisbon treaty clearly recognises that humanitarian aid is a separate chapter in our international action and i believe that this should be reflected in an institutional structure. i would like to say that there is a trend that i sense - which i am not denouncing yet, because as long as nothing suspicious is done, there is no reason to denounce - but i do feel that there is a growing tendency to consider that, for example, the logistical capabilities of the armies could very well, in a certain way, be more closely involved in the humanitarian field. i am not against anything a priori, but i would still like to say that we must be wary of interference from a sector which does not have humanitarian aims. i can understand that in some cases military logistics are used to help humanitarian causes, but i will not hide from you that i would prefer that in such cases such interventions should no longer be carried out under the auspices of the minister of defence or the ministers of defence, but rather, as is the case in some countries, under the political responsibility of the ministers for foreign affairs. it's a debate that's not over, but i sense that there's a growing tendency to see emerging in the humanitarian field sectors or logistics, corpuses, which can be undeniably confusing. in conclusion, mr president, mr cornillet, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased with the european community's considerable contribution to the provision of humanitarian aid and i pay particular tribute to all the men and women who are working on the ground in very difficult circumstances to provide a humanitarian response to people in need. i am convinced that this consensus should allow for more systematic and coordinated action. it is in a certain sense the doctrinal basis, it is also the principle basis, it really opens up a framework for permanent coordination at european level. i think that on the basis of this future consensus, we can become much more efficient, which is obviously the goal.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall try not to repeat what the commissioner has just said. we are indeed moving into a completely new landscape. in so far as the constitution provided for it and the simplified treaty will retain it, we are going to build a policy of the union in its own right, which will be the humanitarian aid policy, of which the commissioner recalled that we were the main suppliers in the world. this report is not just a response to a commission communication, but is already a working document for the consensus that i have reached with my colleagues. for the first time, the three institutions will publish a joint document. this is the first time since the adoption of the humanitarian aid regulation in 1996. it is time to have a text that is thoughtful and that presents itself as a general policy statement on humanitarian aid for our three institutions. i would like to emphasize the excellent cooperation that has taken place in this discussion, both within the committee on development, because my report was adopted unanimously by that committee, and with the european commission and the portuguese presidency. i would also like to emphasize that we as members of parliament were committed to 12 specific points, plus one budgetary point, and i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize, first of all, how much we were committed to them and why, and above all to say that these points were retained in the consensus and that the european parliament was satisfied with all the points it had requested. as regards the first point, and this was in perfect connection with the previous subject on natural disasters, we wanted to redefine the scope of humanitarian action because, of course, there are armed conflicts which, by their nature, are not necessarily predictable and there are disasters which, paradoxically, can begin to be, due in particular to climate change. we know that there will be disasters in a number of countries, although we do not know when they will occur, such as the floods in south-east asia. so we wanted the scope of humanitarian action to start much further upstream, with staff training and prepositioning. then, further downstream, we can see the gray area that may exist between what is still humanitarian but is already becoming reconstruction and will become development aid again. we have therefore been keen to extend this scope. this will have budgetary consequences, which i will discuss later. there is also an element to which the european parliament has been very attached in relation to this area, namely the forgotten crises, which are indeed forgotten by public opinion, but not by those who are experiencing them on the ground. let us just remember that there are almost as many displaced persons in colombia as there are in darfur, and we must pay attention to that. the second point is, of course, the definition of humanitarian aid and its principles, which were mentioned by the commissioner: humanity, neutrality, impartiality, independence. we find in the consensus the definitions of these principles of action which underlie the humanitarian action of our institution. finally, reference was made to the most vulnerable people, with particular reference to women, gender and the special role played by women in humanitarian action. we also wanted to highlight the role of local actors and civil society. i shall come back to this subject of food aid. as regards the use of military means - the commissioner has spoken very well about it - military means and particularly logistical means - and we are of course thinking of helicopters which can be absolutely essential in a first-level intervention in a natural disaster - can of course only be used as a last resort and within the framework of a mandate, so that they are extremely supervised. there is always the risk that they are parties to the conflict or are considered to be parties to an armed conflict, and therefore it is important to think carefully about this. the same applies to civil protection, where we want the use of civil protection logistics to be an exception and to be well regulated, to avoid the humanitarian area being very poorly defined by the intervention of actors who are not directly involved in it. we in the european parliament, of course, support reforms within the un, but with a clarification, commissioner. we therefore want the funds to be allocated to cerf to be allocated in an additional way. there is no reason why our institutions should deprive themselves of the driving force which our directorate-general for echo in particular gives us. if member states or other donors wish to contribute to the united nations first aid fund, this cannot be at the expense of what is already being done, it must be in a totally additional way. another point we were very concerned about was food aid, which was naturally included in the framework of humanitarian aid, but which we wanted to emphasize the harmful effect of sometimes disorganizing local markets. when food aid is placed without thought, the principle of primo non nocere, first of all, do not harm, is violated. the example of other countries which are very famous for this should be taken into account in their humanitarian action, so as not to make the same mistakes. finally, i would like to talk about the responsibility to protect. i think what the commissioner said is very important and we fully endorse what you said about the right of interference or the reflection that we must have and the absolute respect for the humanitarian space that should lead our european union to consider possible sanctions. finally, we have, thank you for pointing this out, the interlocutor. we simply want this consensus report to be not just a petition of principle but a road map with which we will have an annual meeting, as we have agreed, so that parliament can play its full part here too.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation is not just a phenomenon that we have to analyse in terms of economic consequences and technological implications. for you, ladies and gentlemen of the house, for the ministers of the council of the european union, for all of us, it is essentially a political question. these are people losing their jobs, regions in crisis, economic sectors disappearing, new security and environmental threats, but also new job opportunities, new production sectors and lower prices for a wide range of products, allowing for better allocation of financial resources and growth in trade in goods and services. globalization has enabled, as never before in human history, the flow of ideas, the contact between people. the prospects for enrichment, both economically and culturally, are immense, but so are the risks of new imbalances of various orders and on a planetary scale. we have the challenge of shaping this new, increasingly fluid interdependence in an ever smaller world. above all, tackling and regulating globalisation is a crucial question for our democracies, for the very concept of effective democracy, whether we can keep in the hands of our people and our elected representatives political control over the fundamental choices in economic governance and so many other aspects of our lives. i am convinced that in a number of critical areas we will only be effective if we in europe are able to give new collective political answers to the most serious problems of our time, in economic growth and job creation, in the preservation of the environment, in energy, in migration, in the fight against terrorism. the european union has been renewing its internal policies to ensure competitiveness and fair and sustainable development. the strengthening of social cohesion and respect for the environment must guide economic reforms. investment in research, innovation and education should be the central driver of growth and jobs. but we are not alone, it would be irresponsible to close ourselves off, convinced that the path of selfishness can be effective. there are no effective walls or fortresses in this new world, we must work together with other countries and regions to achieve results that benefit everyone. stability, freedom, security and prosperity will only be consistent and lasting if they are shared. this is europe's vocation, we must lead and shape globalisation according to our principles and our values, with an outward-looking, universalist spirit, as happened in the noblest hours of our common history. together, the union and its member states have shown their ability to deal with common problems and challenges, drawing on their experience of 50 years of integration. the new treaty, the treaty of lisbon, provides us with the institutional conditions for greater effectiveness and transparency in order for the union to play its role in the world. the challenge is to preserve and strengthen what we have achieved in this period and to find ways to defend our interests and project our common values beyond our borders. the revised lisbon strategy has provided the framework for europe's response to this challenge. the launch of the new cycle of governance gives us the opportunity to reflect on the direction we intend to take. the commission communication we are discussing here today seems to us to be an excellent starting point for the debate and was already a reference for the discussion of the heads of state and government at the informal meeting we held in lisbon on 19 october. we are working in the council on the basis of this document, seeking to establish a set of messages that can contribute to the preparation of the new cycle of the lisbon strategy. the ecofin council this week has already adopted conclusions, the competitiveness council on 22 december will also approve some messages, and the employment council on 5 and 6 december is to adopt conclusions on the future of the european employment strategy in the context of the new cycle of the lisbon strategy. other council configurations have in turn been addressing issues relevant to the preparation of the new cycle. i can confirm that we agree with the commission on the substance of the matter: the revised lisbon strategy must continue to provide the appropriate framework for europe's response to the major challenges it faces, notably the challenge of globalisation. europe is making significant progress. the objectives set in the four priority areas, employment, knowledge and innovation, the business environment, energy and climate change, which were chosen in 2006, remain appropriate. the new cycle should, in its broad outlines, preserve the stability necessary to consolidate results. at the same time, adjustments and improvements should be made to realise the full potential of the revised lisbon strategy. building on the momentum created by the progress already achieved, accelerating reforms should be our priority in order to make our economies more resilient. the union has global responsibilities and needs to strengthen its preparedness to face globalisation, it must have a strategic, coherent and determined response at global level. we must maintain a strong commitment to implementing at national level, for example, measures to better address the problems of demographic change, the quality of public finances and their long-term sustainability, the labour market, employment, social cohesion, the internal market, competitiveness, research and innovation, energy and climate change, education and training. in parallel, the community lisbon programme has an important role to play in the new cycle by ensuring more effectively the necessary coherence of reforms. the ownership by parliament and the council should be strengthened and the exchange of good practice between member states should be further developed. the phenomenon of migration plays a key role in this context of globalisation, helping to increase growth potential and facilitate adjustments. according to a recent report to the council this week on the effects of this reality on labour mobility, the union's population growth is increasingly supported by migration flows, and it is noteworthy how decisively these contribute to strengthening the flexibility needed to cope with shocks and to compensate for low levels of intra-regional mobility. in this globalised context, the external dimension of the lisbon strategy should be strengthened and deepened, projecting the union's political and economic objectives, as well as its social and environmental standards, beyond its borders. as you know, this was the subject of the debate of the heads of state or government at the informal meeting in lisbon, where we dealt in particular with the instability of financial markets and climate change. it was an interesting and stimulating political debate which strengthened our confidence in the future, and in which, moreover, we could count on the participation of the president of this house. as the portuguese prime minister, josé sócrates, has already pointed out in this parliament, europe has the conditions and the duty to lead the process of globalisation, taking advantage of the new opportunities created, including in the field of ideas and the exchange of cultures. by strengthening the relationship between peoples and the interdependence between nations, the union makes a decisive contribution to world peace and stability. europe has the political and institutional conditions to respond consistently to the economic, social and environmental challenges posed by globalisation and to influence the process of globalisation. we need stronger strategic cooperation with our partners to develop a new global agenda that combines mutual opening of markets, improvement of environmental, social, financial and intellectual property standards and the need to support the institutional capacity of developing countries. as announced by prime minister josé sócrates, at the end of the informal lisbon meeting, a union declaration on globalisation will be adopted at the european summit on 13 and 14 december, which will be presented to citizens and the world as a clear sign of the determination and commitment of european leaders to boost the union's capacity to influence the globalisation agenda and to find the necessary responses. the challenges ahead are both difficult and exciting. the portuguese presidency will remain committed to meeting these challenges. we count, as we have always done, on the support of the european parliament to promote and develop action by the union and its member states, coordinated at global level, which will enable europe to assume its responsibilities in a global context and to respond successfully to the challenges of the future. we sometimes tend to forget what europe means to so many in this globalised world. the images of migrants dying on our beaches are a cruel reminder of this reality, of how privileged we are here in europe. europe has become a beacon of hope in the possibility of building a model that synthesizes freedom, economic growth, social justice and environmental protection in a logic of partnership, cooperation and shared responsibility. it is not just our success as europeans that is at stake. a stronger union for a better world is the motto of our presidency, as you know, and we believe with sincerity and conviction that europe must play a crucial role in building a fairer and more balanced world.
president of the commission. mr president, mr secretary of state for european affairs, representing the presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation is the central theme for this generation of europeans. it touches the lives of all our citizens in one way or another. it is therefore fitting that globalisation has risen to the top of the european agenda. i am personally convinced, as you know, that it is precisely around the theme of globalisation that we must to a large extent organise the agenda for europe in the 21st century, maintaining, of course, the values and principles which have always presided over the european project, but also seeing in globalisation an opportunity for europe to defend and assert its interests in an increasingly interdependent world. i am therefore very pleased to take part in this debate on this subject organised by the european parliament. our document, the commission document, drawn up last month on the european interest, has, as the secretary of state has just said, given rise to an excellent debate at the informal european council in lisbon. i was particularly encouraged by the stimulating consensus around our ideas on how to respond to globalisation and i would also like to thank the portuguese presidency for its continued support for this agenda, the agenda for a global europe and the need to give the lisbon strategy a dimension that can respond to the challenges of globalisation. the idea of a declaration on globalisation at the december european council also deserves our support. it would be an excellent way of consolidating this consensus, a consensus which we must also achieve here in the european parliament, particularly in the preparation of a joint motion for a resolution on such an important subject. the truth is that the european union has been gradually developing a response to globalisation and it has been a genuinely european response that has been encouraging europeans to get the most out of globalisation, but also recognising the concerns - and legitimate concerns - of those who are facing change because there are, we must remember and recognise, there are some who can lose from this change and we must also have a response to those. i think that the european interest lies in finding the right balance, but it cannot in any way be a response of fear, it cannot in any way be a response of defeat, it must be a response based on trust. the truth is that the last few months have also sparked new interest: the turbulence in financial markets has shown how the very health of the european economy is linked to global developments, and extreme weather conditions have also shown how enormous the potential consequences of climate change are and how urgent the need to respond to this problem is. we see every day that jobs in europe, energy in europe, the health of our citizens, the quality of life outside europe, all of this is influenced by a global dimension. mr president, i am convinced that our starting point should be one of confidence. we have the experience of being the world's largest economy and its largest exporter. we have pioneered innovative ways of tackling new problems just look at emissions trading and we have some clear ground rules which have served us well. first, we have a responsibility to protect our citizens without being protectionist. we should target our policies so that others take the same route as us, to open up. we should not close doors; we should, rather, make others open theirs. protectionism for europe, which is the biggest exporter in the world, would be a self-defeating doctrine. second, we are open, but we are not naive. this means that we are not in the business of giving a free ride to those who do not respect certain key principles. that was the spirit behind our recent proposals to ensure that the rules on energy investment would apply to third country companies. third, there is much to be gained from a rules-based system, and the experience of the european union leaves it uniquely well placed to provide a good basis for regulation at global level a concrete way to shape globalisation. let's be honest: to have open economies, we need some rules. markets cannot work without institutions, and in the european union we have, more than any other, the experience of putting together different rules, putting together different national experiences. that is why i really believe that we are better equipped than any other entity in the world to shape globalisation not to impose, but to propose our model for this globalisation phase we are now entering. we also have some tools to help us face globalization with confidence. never has it been clearer that the euro is a force for stability in the international financial system. the ability to use european union law to set binding targets for greenhouse gases and renewables also gives us an unrivalled credibility, and we have a well-established lever for reform in europe in the shape of the renewed lisbon strategy. when we relaunched the lisbon strategy in 2005, we sought to refine it in a number of different ways. we increased ownership and accountability by a defined partnership between the member states and the commission. we clarified the work to be done by turning to country-specific recommendations. every member state now has its own national reform programme and every member state accepts that there is a collective effort in going on with those reforms. we have also refocused the union's financial instruments on growth and jobs. the results are now bearing fruit. despite current concerns, performance has improved: almost 6.5 million extra jobs have been created in the european union of 27 in the last two years; 8 million are expected to be created over the period 2007-2009. the lisbon reforms have undoubtedly reinforced the growth potential of the european economy. however, there is no room for complacency: the task is far from finished. member states and the union must press ahead with reform. this is the best way to make our economies more resilient in the face of an uncertain economic outlook. the four priority areas agreed in 2006 provide the right framework for lisbon: research and innovation; a better business environment (fighting red tape and promoting better conditions for investment); greater employability, and the great issues of energy and climate change. these areas, and the definition of these areas, have given the strategy a much sharper focus. of course, those areas are also closely interrelated. we will never become a knowledge-based, low-carbon economy without a highly skilled workforce, as well as more research and greater innovation. so i would like to underline this point about research and innovation. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament for its support of the commission's demand for the knowledge triangle of research, education and innovation. indeed, i would like to thank you and draw your attention to the need for our work together to keep the galileo project as a great european project, and i would also like to thank you for supporting the eit project. we are moving forward in the need for a european space for knowledge. in fact, one of the novelties in our document was precisely the presentation of the idea of a fifth freedom - the freedom of circulation of knowledge in the european union. we will never create a new dynamism without the right climate also for our smes. there are 23 million smes in europe. so that is why i believe all those areas taken together can create a virtuous circle helping all our goals at once. as we prepare for the launch of the next three-year cycle, we must update the strategy in the light of lessons learned and new circumstances. there must be a greater focus on the social dimension. more investment in education and training for all ages is the best weapon against inequality and social exclusion and, as i said earlier, not everyone is winning from globalization. if we want to be sure of the support of european union citizens for our agenda, we should, in due course, take in the concerns regarding the social dimension. that is why, for example, the commission has proposed an adjustment to the globalisation fund, precisely because we have recognised from the beginning the need to give concrete answers concerning these areas. i am particularly encouraged by the agreement of the social partners on the set of flexicurity principles which were proposed by the commission before the summer. in fact, at the informal european council in lisbon, we received very good news about that agreement between the european social partners. i hope that the december european council can give its support to those principles. this provides a very good basis for each member state to define a better balance between flexibility and security in their labour markets. vigorous implementation of outstanding reforms, stronger emphasis on skills and education, concrete steps to convert europe into a low-carbon economy: these are, from our point of view, the priorities for the next cycle. the integrated guidelines provide an important instrument for coordination, a common framework for diverse member states to pursue their own national reform agendas. analysis and feedback from member states show that the guidelines are working. they are the foundation for the community lisbon programme. my feeling is that, while there is a need to update them, if they are not broken we should not fix them. we also need to do more to ensure that the lisbon strategy progresses at an even pace in all member states: a slower pace of reform in one member state has obvious knock-ons in the others. we also need more involvement of parliaments, social partners, local and regional authorities. the commitment of this house to the lisbon strategy has been critical in sustaining the momentum. together with vice-president verheugen and with all the college, i very much look forward to deepening our joint work as we move into the next cycle of lisbon. the link between globalisation and lisbon gives us an excellent opportunity to show how, in this day and age, the european economic agenda is not an optional extra: it is the key to unlocking a successful future for europe. economic reform, a global vision, a low-carbon economy: these are interlocking goals that need to be pursued in parallel, and only the european union can provide the reach and coherence that europe needs so much. only together can we pursue what we call in our document 'the european interest'. let me conclude by saying that i really believe it is not only the european interest. i really believe that, in the age of globalisation, the world also needs a more committed europe, with our interests being protected and defended but also with our values the values of freedom and solidarity being sustained in this globalisation age. (applause from the left)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr hans-gert, mr president of the council, mr lobo antunes, mr president of the commission, mr josé manuel barroso, globalisation is not an abstract concept for our citizens. globalisation is a reality in our daily lives and europeans look to their government and their institution for solutions to the problems of globalisation. our fellow citizens expect a great deal from the european union in this respect. they expect to be protected and secure - physically protected from the threat of terrorism and from the vagaries of the financial markets. but our fellow citizens also look to us to ensure their food supply and food security; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the crisis. european consumers need to be assured that imports of low-priced products are safe. and the question is particularly topical: on the eve of the new year's holidays, we must be able to assure parents and grandparents that the toys they will be giving their children will not pose a danger to their health. if globalisation is to be a driver of prosperity, it must be fair. it must also be accompanied by ethical rules, for example, prohibiting the exploitation of children. globalisation cannot be done at the expense of the weakest and globalisation must be a tool to combat inequalities within countries and between countries. globalisation must aim at increasing the purchasing power of the poorest. we have always been in favour of free trade, but trade based on strict rules. the european union's openness to the outside world is a driving force in the world economy and many companies are looking to establish themselves in europe. they must accept our rules, respect our standards of health, environment and consumer protection. in fifty years, the european union has managed to create a functioning internal market, where harmonisation of legislation between members has always been the rule. the european union has a role to play in exporting its know-how and raising the standards of production and quality control of its partners. with some of them, we're already on the right track. the success of the first meeting of the transatlantic economic council, held last friday in washington, is a positive sign, and it is up to us to redouble our efforts to hold brazil, china and india to account. we're a little bit less tough on africa. to meet external challenges, we must, on the one hand, strengthen our internal market by increasing research and development funding and, on the other hand, better coordinate research and innovation between member states. globalisation offers new opportunities, but it also requires adaptation efforts, such as lifelong learning. my group welcomes the new initiatives of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, as well as the small business act proposed by the commission, because small and mediumsized enterprises remain very important engines of stability and job creation in europe. ladies and gentlemen, we politicians are increasingly faced with the challenges posed by energy problems. without a common policy for energy and environmental security, the european union will continue to be vulnerable. with oil at nearly $100 a barrel, there is an emergency in the european house. we need a european energy policy to guarantee our security of supply and sustainable growth in this sector. we must have a thorough discussion of renewable energy and consider the possibilities of civil nuclear energy in the energy supply. these debates must be held in full transparency in order to raise awareness and win the support of our citizens. at the end of this research, we all want a cleaner, more efficient and also safer energy europe. europe must define its interests not only in terms of trade and the world economy but also in terms of culture, language and tradition. and it is by working on common responses to the challenges of globalisation that we will be able to protect the legitimate interests of our fellow citizens without being protectionist. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation, or, as the jesuit teilhard de chardin put it, globalisation, is a commonplace fact: we are facing a second globalisation, more complete than that of the 1900s, since it is at the same time financial, economic, linguistic, migratory and ideological, with a dominant model, the market. this globalisation, another commonplace, has negative effects in the south with the over-exploitation, in india and china, of the soil, forests, seas, waters, and the endangerment of human rights. in the north, it is the relocations, the loss of jobs, the financial destabilisation of our social systems and, because of ageing and the costs of the elderly, the risk that europe will become a rwanda of the elderly, with all the contempt for life and, therefore, the violation of human rights that this entails. in the face of these realities, these banalities, what do we do? we do incantation, we do the foolish and we do divination. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the political charm is to invoke the lisbon strategy, the most competitive economy. you'd think khrushchev at the un in the '60s, trying to catch up with the capitalist system. it's like harry potter with globalization. we're also doing a little bit of trivia. the perfect example is the budget fund on globalisation, with some financial suckers. when things are out of control, we leave it to god and we do divination. in the name of father adam smith, son ricardo and the holy spirit of the market, in the great temple of free trade the world over, we are reducing tariffs and finally abolishing them. well, that's magical thinking, you know. the european genius is that it invented, 2,500 years ago, logical thinking, that is, reason. the reason is that free trade is necessary, but social and cultural protection is also necessary. so we must reconcile free trade with human security. to this end, there is a new customs technology, the technology of deductible customs duties, that is to say customs duties which are borne, of course, by the exporter, but which open up to him a customs credit equal to the amount of customs duties borne by him and which can be deducted from his purchases in the country of the importer. these new generation of modular, refundable, negotiable and subsidisable tariffs will solve the common problem of economic, social and environmental asymmetries in international trade between the north and the south.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate which is sometimes held on the pros and cons of globalisation is as meaningful as a debate on 25 december on the pros and cons of winter. the only real question for us is how the european union can attempt to turn this inevitable movement into an opportunity for its peoples. what citizens want are reforms that are useful for promoting employment and accompanying them in the process of change. unfortunately, the lisbon strategy so far has resembled bizet's arles strategy. you hear about it a lot, you wait for it desperately, but you never meet it. those who hold the keys to the success of the lisbon strategy, namely the member states, must give themselves the means to achieve the objectives they have set themselves. we expect them to take initiatives and to give an objective and complete evaluation of their results. i do not want to paint a purely negative picture of the situation. there are some encouraging signs, such as the fact that the adjustment fund is working, although its actual effectiveness has yet to be assessed. it should also be noted that, for the first time in europe, the social partners agreed on an analysis of the challenges to be faced in labour markets. they also agreed to ask member states to implement flexicurity policies that combine flexibility and security for both employees and employers. i would like to conclude by urging you, mr president of the commission, not to sacrifice the social dimension of the lisbon strategy, considering that it would be a handicap for competitiveness. citizens expect europe to be close to their concerns, businesses to implement a policy that combats widespread social dumping.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our fellow citizens, who are also workers, consumers and taxpayers, have understood that the european union, as it stands today, is not a bulwark against the excesses of financial globalism, but its footstool. for 20 years we have been promised a future that sings thanks to the euro and the opening of frontiers, as when we were made to vote for maastricht in 1992. yet our tool of production is moving away, leaving behind millions of unemployed, industrial wastelands and rural deserts. when president sarkozy comes to this house to plead for a mission to protect europe, it seems that he has not said 'yes' to maastricht or to the treaty of lisbon. when he uses gaulish accents to say that he is prepared to oppose any negotiation in the wto that is contrary to the interests of our country, it is magnificent. but he forgets that france has no veto power and that he is a commissioner from brussels who negotiates alone and without ever respecting the mandate given to him by the member states. the same illusions when he rightly attacks the deflationary obsession of the independent frankfurt central bank. more importantly, which man do you believe? the one who proclaims france's sovereignty on camera or the one who abandons it in a european treaty? the truth is that the lisbon treaty confirms the logic of the current treaties, which forbid us to steer the euro, to protect our markets and to defend ourselves in global trade negotiations. it does mention the protection of citizens as an objective, but this is merely a political statement, with no legal effect. in particular, it further strengthens the powers and independence of the commission and the ecb, whose ideology is free trade. with its protocol no 6, but also with articles 3 and 4 of the ec treaty, it confirms their dogmatic conception of competition without counterbalances, without national interests, without frontiers and without concern for democracy. we think the french and the europeans want something else. let us restore genuine free trade, trade between nations, trade that enriches nations and does not deprive them of their protection or their identity.
madam president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, president barroso has just told us that the european union is probably the best place to invent regulation on a global scale. he's right, you know. but for that, we also have to do our homework. the tools we have within the european union to deal with these challenges are what are called guidelines, in the field of economic policy and in the field of employment. i am afraid that today the commission is trying to drown out these guidelines, which we need, in globalisation. they are useful and we need to review them. we must do so first because at the european council last march, the heads of state and government set out the best possible strategy for the european union to deal with globalisation, to respond to the challenges of energy and climate change. if we do not use all the means at our disposal, including the guidelines, and perhaps first of all the guidelines, to implement this strategy, we will not get anywhere and we will create disillusionment with the european union's ability to face the challenges of globalisation. we must also do so because commissioner almunia himself recognises that the issue of exchange rates, the issue of oil prices, the issue of the real impact on the european union economy of the subprime crisis will have an effect which has led him to revise the growth prospects in the european union. the european union is down from 2.9% to 2.4% and the euro zone from 2.6% to 2.2%. we must also do so because we have to respond to the aspirations of the people and, contrary to what mr sarkozy thinks, the question of social europe is a real issue and you must deal with it if you do not want to be rejected tomorrow by the citizens of europe. we must do so because commissioner almunia, for the first time, recognises that today, in the international context in which we find ourselves, the engine and the only engine of european growth will be domestic consumption first and foremost. can we imagine that, in this context of changing circumstances, the only thing that would not change would be the guidelines, can we imagine that the only thing the union has at its disposal to be able to really guide the economic and social policies of the member states would not change? mr commissioner, mr vice-president, tell president barroso that the guidelines must be changed, that the new context must be taken into account so that the european union can have the tools at its disposal internally to deal with the challenges of globalisation in the best possible way.
madam president, the european union must not be a victim of globalisation and leave its citizens with the impression that they are being dragged into a movement that is beyond them. so the question is no longer whether globalization is good or bad, but whether we are prepared to weigh in on it and regulate it. to meet this challenge, the european union must set itself the ambitious goal of reconciling competitiveness with economic and social cohesion. the strengthening of multilateral rules is helping to achieve this. in an open economic system, respect for the rules of competition and the establishment of a fair and equitable market taking environmental and social standards into account are the best guarantees for the rights of consumers and citizens to be respected. in the meantime, it is essential to maintain and not weaken the trade defence instruments, which are the only effective means of combating dumping, while awaiting a system of rules which is recognized at international level. because yes, it is possible for europe to protect without being protectionist. europe must also invest in the sectors which will determine its weight in the world of tomorrow: research, innovation and the development of clean technologies. finally, to support those who have the most difficulty in benefiting from globalisation, europe must strengthen its solidarity-based arrangements, such as the european globalisation adjustment fund and flexicurity. anticipating adaptations and undertaking reforms is in europe's interest in order to face global competition. the european union has all the capacities and resources to meet this challenge.
the rapporteur. mr president, we are voting on nine reports. in fact, the next six will be the same. this is the implementation of the comitology agreement brilliantly concluded between the three institutions. we are here in the practical work for which we need the support of the plenary, following the long and fruitful negotiations between the council and the commission.
in writing. i voted for the gutiérrez-cortines report because it proposes positive progress in the protection and sustainable use of soils, a non-renewable resource whose preservation of quality is essential to ensure sufficient food production and access to clean water. the european parliament has called for a better definition of contaminated sites, where dangerous substances present a significant risk to health and the environment as a result of human activities. they will be listed in a national or regional directory which can be consulted by the public. sanitation strategies will have to be developed by each member state to limit the existence of contaminated sites, while a sustainable agricultural policy taking into account the specific characteristics of each national soil will be encouraged to ensure the sustainability of clean soils. the european parliament, by adopting this text, emphasises the need to protect and make better use of the earth's resources.
in writing. in line with the vote of the committee on legal affairs, i consider that the commission is going beyond its mandate and that there is no need for the european union to impose new directives on the member states in this area. this is a matter for national competence. it seems to me artificial to want to apply similar prescriptions in countries which are marked by extremely different legal traditions and environmental situations. it is therefore necessary for the commission to re-examine its proposal and to indicate in detail what situations call for community legislation.
at the end of this debate i have received, in accordance with rule 108 (5), a motion for a resolution (see minutes), on behalf of the temporary committee on climate change. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday.
the agenda calls for the joint discussion of: the report by raimon obiols i germà and charles tannock, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the strengthening of the european neighbourhood policy (2007/2088 (ini)) and the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in georgia.
for the greens/efa group mr president, first of all i would like to say that i regret that this is a joint debate, because the crisis in georgia really deserves a debate on its own. the president of parliament sent me to georgia this weekend. i am returning and, indeed, i would like to report on the events and the various meetings i have had in this country. unfortunately, two minutes won't be enough. before i talk about georgia, i would like to welcome the new and latest arrival in the neighbourhood policy, mauritania, to which we sent an observer mission, which i led there. what we can say today is that with the serious crisis in georgia, well, our neighbourhood policy is being put to the test. does this neighborhood policy really do anything? that is the question that can be asked today in the light of the crisis in georgia. what i can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is that four years after the non-violent rose revolution, today the people are really shocked by the violence we have seen on our screens, by the violence suffered by the georgian people, by the violence with which imedi tv was shut down. they're shocked because they don't understand. that is why i thank the commission for asking the georgian authorities to set up an investigation, an independent and transparent investigation, because the people want to know exactly what happened, how it happened. we went to the site. we have two versions, of course, the opposition version and the authorities version. both are admissible. there may be both, but the public really wants transparency. it is obvious that we must not forget - our colleague has mentioned this - that georgia is fragile, we know that, but georgia has to deal with the big brother who is always in ambush. when the georgian authorities draw our attention to the fact that russia is omnipresent, we must take into account what is happening. we have had an example of this with the visa facilitation in russia, which has allowed the people of abkhazia and south ossetia to benefit from our russian visa facilitation, even though they are georgian territory, which puts georgia in the dock. all this, madam commissioner, you know. today, what we have to ask for - of course, we hope they will lift the state of emergency - but what we have to ask for is the immediate restoration of freedom of speech and freedom of the media and most importantly - this goes without saying - the guarantee of free and transparent elections. today, georgia is in a position to hold these elections. it showed this last year when it held free, transparent, democratic local elections, which met all international standards. today, i am addressing the council - i think it was a little harsh on the georgian authorities - and i believe that we, as a european neighbourhood policy, must show our usefulness. we have to show the georgian people that it's good for something. the european union must not disappoint them. we must send this message to the georgian authorities in a very strong way.
mr president, i shall concentrate on the mediterranean region, whose rapporteurs - i thank them for this - rightly point out the importance of this region for european foreign policy. it is because i support a strong european commitment to this region of the world that i wish to warn against the risks of diluting the union's mediterranean policy in the european neighbourhood policy. we should not allow competition to develop between the countries of eastern europe and our neighbours to the south. the neighbourhood policy is intended to be a bilateral complement to the multilateral barcelona process, which has been the reference framework for organising relations in the mediterranean since 1995. as such, neither the european neighbourhood policy nor any other project for the mediterranean countries should obscure or replace the barcelona objectives, which are based on the three pillars of political, economic and social cohesion and are the only ones capable of promoting genuine regional integration. i would therefore like to emphasize two points. on the one hand, the balance of financial distribution between the countries of eastern europe and those of the mediterranean must be respected. the preservation of a strong and ambitious european policy for the mediterranean region depends on this. on the other hand, with reference to the future euro-mediterranean free trade area project, which is the subject of my report voted on in parliament this year, i would like to recall the need for a concerted and gradual approach enabling these countries to control the pace and intensity of trade opening up in accordance with their specific characteristics, and in particular the fragility of certain sectors of their economies. the aim must remain that of trade in the service of development. i would like to conclude by saying that these elements should be included in the report because they are essential for the definition of a clear mediterranean policy based on a long-term strategic vision for the development and stabilisation of the region.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr braghetto, on his excellent work. as the iccat negotiations are still ongoing, we do not yet know what sauce our fishermen will be served next year. what is certain is that what happened this summer is serious and that the fisheries control mechanism will have to be seriously reviewed. the commission is doing this and i welcome it, although i fear that some of the measures proposed last month to eradicate illegal fishing will be difficult to swallow in the council. i hope that the community fisheries control agency will succeed in establishing a real coordination of european resources to carry out the necessary controls, because national controls are not working. our spanish, portuguese and greek friends are right to be indignant at the behaviour of french and italian fishermen and the failure of the controls put in place by these two states. no one is fooled! we all know that each country has covered up the illegal activities of its own fishermen for too long. that is why - and i am not against it - we need stronger european controls, and that is why i am convinced that a european coastguard is necessary. we must also talk about penalties for this overfishing. the iccat will probably decide to penalize the community, which should itself penalize the member states which are at fault. the french government has warned that it will be unrelenting and that heads will fall. i hope that these sanctions, which would not have been necessary if the controls had been effective, will be firm but fair and equitable. and i hope that those who fish for tuna in the traditional way, which has less impact on the resource, will not be penalized for the misdeeds of others. finally, since scientists have clearly established that the capacity of the european fleets was, in the case of bluefin tuna, disproportionate to the resource, i take this opportunity to ask the commissioner what means are provided to support the conversion of fishermen who will be forced to cease their activity.
in writing. the issue is a matter of responsibility for the commission: with its recommendation of september 2005 and its decision to challenge the territorial jurisdiction of collective management organisations, the commission has caused a change in the relationship between rightholders and national organisations; this is done without any legislative or harmonisation measures. under the pretext of adapting to the digital environment, the commission is in fact introducing confusion into the european copyright and derived rights system. confusion which leads to concentration and formatting, to the detriment of artists and to the profits of industrialists and operators. it is urgent that the commission stops taking piecemeal initiatives without serious impact studies, examines the situation in all sectors of art and culture with all stakeholders and adopts a comprehensive policy in line with the requirements of cultural diversity, the values of europe and the objectives of the lisbon strategy based on the knowledge economy and innovation, and proposes to the european parliament and the council draft directives that are coherent and respect the principles mentioned above.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. i would like to remind you of rule 19 and rule 166 of the rules of procedure. before parliament votes on the joint resolution by certain groups on free movement, i would like to condemn in the strongest possible terms, on behalf of my group, the personal attack contained in article 13 against the vice-president of the commission, mr franco frattini. i want to denounce an unworthy political maneuver on the part of the italian socialists, relayed by some of my colleagues, which is not up to the challenge. more importantly, this bad faith distortion of mr frattini's words, which our institution must reject, will not allow us to make a calm decision. if our group were to vote against this resolution as a result of this manoeuvre, it would not in any way diminish our support for all law-abiding romanians and other community nationals and their host country. europe is founded on the rule of law, as we reaffirm in the resolution signed by my group on the joint initiative of our italian and romanian colleagues. the question of free movement is not just a national but a european matter. it is not a matter of political settlement of accounts, but a matter of values, my dear friends. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i think it is unnecessary to add much to what monica frassoni, graham watson and martin schulz have said. i would simply say that it would be wise for any commissioner who sees his remarks being called into question by four groups which are not in the same half of the house to think about what he must not do again if he wants to have the confidence of parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, excuse me, but i should like to make it clear that the exclusion of the term 're-admission agreements' relates only to the first sentence of paragraph 14, to remove any ambiguity about the interpretation of the vote.
in writing. this resolution should have been an opportunity to affirm some urgencies and to clarify what the european parliament actually expects from the institutions of the european union to ensure a revival of growth, shared social progress in our 27 countries, and the development of the developing countries. none of this, and the eternal twist on happy globalization! nothing about a democratic counterweight to the ecb imposing a monetary policy favourable to industry and employment. nothing on a strategy to counter the eu's permeability to hedge funds and sovereign wealth funds. nothing about community preference and the strict imposition of social or environmental standards. nothing about development aid, which is essential for co-development! it is no wonder that europe is experiencing low growth, social problems and people's mistrust.
in writing. the strengthening of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), as detailed in this report, must involve deepening cooperation between the two shores of the mediterranean, through increased dialogue between states, local authorities and civil society representatives. it is also essential to recall that the enp must respect the guidelines set by the european union's development policy. almost all the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean are developing countries according to the official list drawn up by the oecd's development assistance committee. as such, the achievement of the millennium development goals must be a priority for union action in the region.
in writing. this report on the social balance sheet in europe presents from the outset the blackboard of its real economic and social situation. it is an admission of impotence in the midst of a sea of europeanist nonsense, concocted by the brains of the ultra-liberal and globalist single-mindedness. since the year 2000, all the measures to combat unemployment, poverty and exclusion have been in vain. worse, while the european union calls for more economic immigration and the protection of its so-called social model, the report points out that 78 million europeans live in poverty. we forget to mention what else exists around the hell of poverty that is not just economic. it is psychological for millions of europeans who are culturally and socially uprooted from their own land and whose jobs are disappearing abroad because of relocations. finally, it is physical when violence and insecurity, largely generated by immigrant populations frustrated by their impossible integration, aggravate the overall situation. the solution is not to recognize the schizophrenic, ultra-liberal and mixed-race european system, but to challenge it in order to propose a europe of rediscovered identities which applies community protection and preference to europeans first!
author. madam president, i cannot imagine how my epp colleagues would react if they heard that the gulf countries or asean had adopted a resolution on muslim communities in europe. it would be perceived as a bad move, a signal of aggression, an unacceptable intrusion by the religious authority of a third party into the relations between our states and religious minorities. do not do to others what you would not want done to you, that is also a christian command. seriously, would such a resolution be perceived as a call for tolerance and intercultural and religious dialogue? no, you can't! our union, so proud of its values, would do well to show a minimum of discernment and respect for international conventions on these highly sensitive issues. in addressing the violation of the rights of persons belonging to a religious minority, in condemning the murder of christians or in restricting the free exercise of religion, we had a choice between two equally well-founded attitudes. the first is to address a country, in the name of its international commitments and the agreements that bind us, and ask it to investigate, to prosecute those responsible, to enforce the rights of religious minorities, which is what we do here regularly. the second attitude is that adopted by the united nations, through a resolution tabled by twelve countries and all those of the union on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and discrimination based on religion, belief, freedom of thought and conscience, because in international law - and this is precious - the two are linked. the individual's right to belief, religion, thought and conscience are interdependent. what are we going to do today if we adopt this unacceptable text that you are proposing? we will ignore the work of our member states in the united nations by adopting a different approach which may encourage some countries to exploit religious issues in their international relations. we will be voting against the balanced approach advocated, for example, by mrs jahangir, the un special rapporteur who is now under house arrest in pakistan, and we will also end up undermining religious minorities, including christians, in the world. once again, together with the experts who work on religious freedom, such as christian solidarity worldwide, for example, i say that with this resolution we are only increasing the danger to the very people we want to protect.
author. madam president, the aim of this resolution is simple: to tell the truth. this is what the uzbek people and human rights defenders are asking us to do. the urgency is based on the murders of journalists and dissidents in recent months and on the council conclusions of 15 october, which were misrepresented as a diplomatic victory by president karimov. the main fact is that the sanctions were extended for another 12 months because no investigation was carried out into the andijan massacre and the expert meetings on the matter were fruitless. as regards the lifting of the visa ban for six months, we agree that the visa bans will be automatically renewed if the excellent criteria that have been put in place, for example visits by the un special rapporteurs, are not met within six months. we are, however, critical of the conclusions on the supposed progress in the field of human rights. for example, the abolition of the death penalty has not yet been implemented, and the eu-uzbekistan human rights dialogue is still pending. finally, in this resolution we condemn the murder of several independent or dissident journalists and call for impartial and serious investigations to be carried out. i am concerned about the intentions of the epp and the nui. they propose to go further than all the member states by interpreting the council conclusions not only as a suspension of visa bans but as a lifting of visas altogether. their paragraph 3 states that the ineffectiveness of the sanctions is an encouragement to the uzbek regime, which makes no intellectual and political sense. the text does not even name the 13 human rights defenders whose immediate release president pöttering has requested by letter. finally, paragraph 9 refers to the difficult situation of human rights watch. that is fine, but the organization has made it clear that it does not wish to be mentioned in a resolution which is technically false and which is equally murderous for human rights defenders and the uzbek people and which, in the end, everyone understands, would serve as an instrument of propaganda for the dictator karimov. i therefore ask the epp and the neu members to share the seriousness that must be taken on this subject and with regard to the uzbek people, and to support our motion for a resolution which says nothing but the truth about the human rights situation in uzbekistan.
in writing. when europe is stronger, freedoms are stronger. the european union must continue the policy it started in 2005 after the blind and totally unpunished repression in andijan, which according to the osce and human rights watch killed between 500 and 1000 people. the many challenges ahead (energy, terrorism, freedoms) require europe to mobilise more than ever on its periphery. its most important mission is to act for human rights and to condition any peaceful relationship with uzbekistan on the progress of fundamental freedoms. the union cannot ignore the reality of a sham rule of law and the heinous murder last september of the director mark weil, known for his opposition to the tashkent regime. recently, the uzbek parliament has taken some steps towards abolishing the death penalty and civil justice. although these decisions are still very insufficient, the european union's firmness has not been in vain and is contrary to the principles of an unacceptable and dangerous realpolitik. the european union has a long way to go to achieve democracy and political stability. but we've finally started to hope. it is up to this immense country of uzbekistan not to destroy this hope by building a genuine partnership with europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. so that we don't misunderstand each other! the problem is not the content, the problem is that they want to secure the majority. i think this is legitimate, so the discussion is you are absolutely right that it is basically incomprehensible in the proposal that this is being rolled up. but the socialist proposal is, let's see how we can secure this majority for what everyone really wants. that's the debate and that's why they want to postpone it. that's all i have to say.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, mr council representative, madam commissioner, we will be approving the charter of fundamental rights again at the next session. before i do that, let me ask you a question that may not be as simple as it sounds. will it be the original charter of the year 2000 or, as the leinen report suggests, will it be an adapted version of it, incorporated in the former draft constitutional treaty? the two texts are not identical and i find it regrettable that their differences are not more clearly highlighted, even though this caused a legitimate controversy in its time. for example, the national commission for human rights in france had expressed - i quote - its very strong concern about the amendments to the articles on social rights - i quote again - which risk emptying the charter of its social content. for his part, one of the main architects of the original charter, the jurist guy braibant, had explained in the press that - i quote him - the conditions for applying the text had been changed. first, there is the substitution of the word "power" for the word "duty" in a few places. at the same time - and i quote it again - there is the official reference to the 'explanations' of the bureau. while they should be educational and completely neutral, these explanations interpret rights in a rather minimal sense. we have undermined fundamental rights, end of quote. what text will we approve at our next session? the second question is whether this approval will be valid for all the countries of the union. an act of this nature cannot be accommodated by any ambiguity. i would therefore like a precise answer to these two questions.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we want to support the commission in its desire to promote a comprehensive approach to flexibility. the union must be at the origin of the dialogue between all the actors on this subject. our group welcomes the fact that, for the first time in europe, the social partners have agreed in a recent joint document to ask the member states to implement flexicurity policies. this is essential because flexicurity only makes sense if it creates a climate of trust between employees and employers. as elected representatives of the citizens of the union, we have a particular responsibility to create the conditions for that trust. it is in everyone's interest to play the game and, above all, not to give in to the ease of opposing flexibility, which would benefit employers, and security, which would be a counterpart granted to employees. implementing flexicurity means guaranteeing flexibility and security for both employees and employers. employees need flexibility to reconcile work and personal life or to develop their working life in new ways. employers need security as much as employees, in particular legal security in their contractual relations with their employees. the report is going in the right direction. it is balanced and provides a framework for member states to adopt common principles. i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur for this. the member states must not be forced to adopt a vision of flexicurity. the labour market of each state obviously has its own particular characteristics. we are in the field of coordination of employment policies and not in that of premature harmonization. but our citizens are demanding a europe that provides answers to the challenges of globalisation. by protecting career paths, by promoting the adaptation of employees, by accepting and accompanying accidents in life, flexicurity can be a privileged way of modernising our social models. do not miss the opportunity to come to an agreement and act in harmony!
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr prime minister, you have just made a fine speech. in many ways it was a humanist discourse, which i readily endorse as the ideal for the europe of the future. but let us face it, if the realities experienced by europeans are to be brought closer to a vision such as the one you have just described, many changes are needed in the orientations and structures of the european union. our europe is a social europe, you say. that's good. but it is not pessimistic to say that the social europe is still largely to be built. the current framework of european social policy is, according to the treaties, an open market economy with free competition, that is to say, a framework which naturally encourages competition between social models and which naturally tends to bring down the gains made in the name of competitiveness. it is a framework which naturally leads to lower labour costs, precarious employment and weaker social rights. the social question is probably the main cause of the problems of trust between citizens and the european institutions. the president of the european central bank, for example, was able to verify this fact himself when he spoke at the recent congress of the european trade union confederation, where he developed his theory, the official theory of the european union on wage moderation in the name of price competitiveness. it was unanimous against him. the german minister for economic affairs himself, as i have already said, has spoken of the risk of a crisis of legitimacy of the european economic and social model. so let's face it, just to make the vision you've developed for the future credible. you also spoke of relations with africa and the need to respond, you said, to their demand for justice. you're right! but then we have to go back to the draft economic partnership agreement, for example, which is rejected by all our african partners because they are convinced - and i think they are right - that human capacity development does not go hand in hand with free trade. in conclusion, mr prime minister, i should like to thank you for having reminded us of what i believe should be the aims of europe, and if we do not always agree on the present, at least we agree on the future.
mr president-in-office, i shall confine my remarks to the issue of immigration, which is of major importance for the future of europe and on which you have just made consensual proposals. it is true that no one can give lessons in this difficult area, but no one can be exempt from the solidarity needed in a unified area. opinion polls show that some countries have a more economic approach and others a more cultural approach. for those states which see the economic interest first, it is of course convenient to try to procure the indispensable workers by adapting the law, hence the massive regularization measures taken from time to time by this or that national government, without worrying about the air demand this causes, while the other member states try to control the migratory flows. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. france regretted it and disapproved of it at the time. our president of the republic has expressed it frankly. we must not repeat this operation in the future. the european union is rightly helping spain to cope with the dramatic situations on its african borders. the epp advocates encouraging policies based on the individual treatment of regularisation applications and thus rejecting massive regularisations which only increase the appeal effect. it is in the same vein that the french presidency of the european union will propose a european pact on immigration. and in the future, mr president, the treaty of lisbon will finally provide the means to act together and to abandon the politics of the lone wolf. this is in the long-term interest of the european union, of spain and of all the member states.
mr president, when we talk about the future of europe, history is never far away. for our fellow citizens, as long as the berlin wall was in place, it was simple. we knew where the threat was, it had a place, a face. we were the vanguard of freedom, even against franco, and then, at the same time, we didn't have to talk about borders because it was an iron curtain that drew it. this is europe in blocks and that's over! and today, for me, the future of europe is in its geography. just look at our proximity. we are close to the battlefield of the world, from gaza to kabul. the spirit of european reconciliation must be instilled here. we're also close to the poverty zone, the pandemic zone of the world -- you mentioned it, africa. we must share here, because it is also from here that we control migration flows. we are also close to the area where religious fanaticism has been developing for a number of years, although i am not confusing everyone. and at the same time, we must advocate dialogue between cultures and not clash of civilizations. and at the same time, and finally, we're close to oil and gas reserves. we need it. this implies that we can also envisage security of supply and energy independence. these are some of the things we can explain to our fellow citizens, who are a little lost. europe is now at the centre of continental countries. she's done with her empires. you had one, we had one. there's still some left. she's done with the pads. europe must be given a new meaning. this cannot be an addition of directives. it is necessary to give up some broad horizons in order to resume or try again some kind of european dream. that is my vision, at least partial, of the future of europe. in conclusion, mr president, i would ask for your indulgence, because next year is the 200th anniversary of napoleon's presence in spain. as i know you, and as this is the french presidency, i would like you to be a little lenient with us at this time.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the way in which the negotiations were conducted by the commission did not lead to the signing of genuine economic partnership agreements before the scheduled date. i agree with mr sturdy on this point: the interim agreements call into question the regional groupings which had been set up and which were the basis for the discussion to sign these economic partnership agreements. these negotiations, instead of strengthening the bond and confidence between europe and the acp, have, on the contrary, aroused great concern. concern about the loss of public resources: the president of senegal recently remarked in the press that 35 to 70% of african budgets were made up of customs tariffs, for example, of €800 million, of losses foreseen for nigeria. concern about the consequences of liberalisation for the fragile sectors of the acp economies which will be subject to competition from european firms. concern about requests to include a number of subjects in the second phase which do not correspond to wto obligations. i am thinking of services, investment, public procurement, competition rules. concern about the threat of higher customs tariffs for non-ldc acps who do not sign an interim agreement as early as 2008, as a kind of blackmail to force them to accept any kind of agreement. i believe that the relationship between the acp and the european union must be given a new impetus and that negotiations must be resumed on a basis which corresponds to the essential principles of the cotonou agreement. epas are development tools. liberalisation is not an end in itself. the aim of the epas is to strengthen the acp economies to facilitate their integration into the world economy. no acp country shall be placed, after the conclusion of an epa, in a more unfavourable situation than it was before the signature of an epa. those who do not sign must benefit from a system of preference at least as favourable as before the supposed signing of an epa. these agreements must therefore be based on the interests of the acp countries and their economic diversification. we must clarify the rules of origin to see how far they will benefit from the new market access measures we are going to propose to them, and provide for genuine financial compensation mechanisms. the message of the kigali declaration by acp and european parliamentarians must be heard. the date of december 31 is not as fatal a cut as you have presented.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to relay to you the very serious concern expressed for several months by the overseas authorities about these economic partnership agreements. the epas should not be reduced to mere free trade agreements within the wto, nor should they lead to the disruption of the already fragile economies of our overseas communities, but rather should represent a genuine partnership for the development of a new economic and trade framework which would be favourable to the development of all the territories concerned. because of their geographical proximity to many acp countries, the overseas communities are at the heart of these preferential and reciprocal agreements with the acp countries. i am well aware that the european overseas territories, through the outermost regions and the octs, concern only six member states of the union and that the issues in these territories are naturally unknown. nevertheless, the special situation of the outermost regions, which is recognised, must be taken into account more clearly in the context of these negotiations on the basis of article 299 (2) of the treaty. in addition, the octs neighbouring the acp countries must also be given special attention in compliance with the association agreements which already bind them to the european union under the same article. i thank you for supporting the amendment i am going to propose, which will seek to strike an intelligent balance between the regional integration of these overseas territories and their links with europe. although the discussions are difficult, particularly as regards the protection of local markets and the list of sensitive products, i am hopeful that the commission will find a compromise which respects both the specific interests of the octs and the acp countries concerned.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today may indeed seem very technical to our fellow citizens. it is indeed, and yet the harmonization of safety rules and the interoperability of railway vehicles are, in fact, a major concern of our fellow europeans in their daily lives. i am thinking, for example, of the terrible accident a few months ago in zoufftgen between luxembourg and france, which affected us all very much. if we are to meet the challenges ahead, particularly in terms of climate change, if we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote modal shifting, that is to say, reducing the transport of goods by road in favour of other less polluting modes of transport, we must remove a number of current technical barriers. the creation of a genuine european railway area requires either the harmonisation of the jargon of the tsis or the mutual recognition of standards. at present, national approval procedures for rolling stock are proving to be too lengthy and too costly. we must simplify administrative procedures, reduce delays and do everything possible to harmonize national safety rules which sometimes, without any real basis at all, contribute to very significant restrictions on traffic. i would like to thank our rapporteurs, paolo costa and josu ortuondo larrea, for their brilliant work, especially since this seems to satisfy all our political groups and we are moving, i hope, towards an agreement with the council at first reading. i would like to make three quick remarks. first of all, i am glad that we have achieved, as all my colleagues have said, greater readability. the authorization provisions will be combined in a single legislative act, the interoperability directive, for both the transeuropean high-speed system and the conventional system. secondly, i am of course also pleased that a number of principles, which are very technical a priori but very important for our subject, have been adopted, particularly with regard to typeapproval, cross-acceptance of rolling stock, except in the case of requirements arising from specific characteristics of the local network, the obligation also for the national authority to demonstrate the real risk involved in terms of safety, the role of the agency for the identification and classification of national rules in terms of clarification. i think it is important that the agency should be able to rely on the expertise of the network managers in this area. i also welcome the principle of implicit authorization in the absence of a decision by a national authority within three months of the expiry of the time limits for the enforcement of the holder's liability. i would like to make a very clear reservation on this point because i fear that this will lead to the railway company being relieved of its responsibility.
mr president, with this apparently technical question of the interoperability of the european rail system and the role of the european railway agency in safety, we are at the heart of a real choice of civilization. either the union establishes a european railway market based on competition of 'all against all' and the dismantling of national railway companies in the hope that a proper level of safety will be maintained - that is the meaning of the commission's proposals - or we organise cooperation between all the railway companies of the member states to set up a railway network throughout the union to transport passengers and freight at high speed in the greatest safety. it is in this sense that the railteam alliance, which brings together the main lng operators on the continent, could be developed. it should be noted that the history of european railways has already distinguished between the two systems. the commission has already proposed the following options for the whole of the railway network in great britain ten years ago. the result is a general deterioration in the quality of service, a deterioration in safety leading to fatal accidents. on the other hand, thalys was set up ten years ago on the basis of cooperation between sncf and sncb, and this despite the commission's ill will. the result is a quality, efficient and safe service that meets the needs of users. in the light of this historical experience, i ask the commission to abandon the choice of railway competition in favour of cooperation.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start by quoting my colleague henri weber. this text is a compromise acceptable to the socialists and we have succeeded in the course of the negotiations in including valuable provisions to preserve the european audiovisual model. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs hieronymi, for her determination, her patience and also, precisely, for her spirit of compromise, which is particularly open and positive. the challenges of the digital revolution in the context of the knowledge economy made this revision necessary. the regulation is extended, in appropriate forms, to new audiovisual services. the protection of minors is guaranteed, as is that of citizens against incitement to any discrimination. these new services will contribute to the financing of european cinema and audiovisual production. a fraction of their turnover will be channelled into support accounts, and the proper exposure of european works in online catalogues will be ensured. media pluralism becomes a formal demand. the role of regulatory authorities is strengthened and the adoption of provisions on accessibility for all, in particular for persons with disabilities, is strongly recommended to member states. the socialists wanted to stick to the rules of the current directive on advertising. if advertising is limited to 20% per hour, the time between two advertising screens is reduced to 30 minutes, whereas we wanted to maintain 45 minutes between two screens at european level. but we are satisfied that product placement advertising is prohibited for documentaries, news programmes and children's programmes. member states may, however, choose to allow this type of advertising for motion pictures, television fiction and sports programmes. in this case, product placement is very strictly regulated, in order to avoid abuse and adverse effects. the balance has therefore been struck between freedom of expression, the free flow of information, public access to new services such as video on demand, and content of both cultural and economic value. the emphasis on quality will help european production to strengthen its position. this is one of the major effects of this directive.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mrs hieronymi and mr guardans on the excellent dialogue they had with their colleagues in the european parliament and on the quality of the reports they were able to establish with the council, which resulted in the presentation of this report, which was very much agreed at second reading. the council has thus accepted a large part of the european parliament's requests and all those of my group. i am glad that two things which i particularly wanted to see included in this text, namely the reinforcement of the principle of country of origin and the protection of children in advertising messages. the european parliament has shown that it is capable of negotiating with the council and that these negotiations have resulted in a text which is richer than the original text. it was not easy, but we achieved our goal. i now hope that transposition into national law will be facilitated by the goodwill of governments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sand in the kosovo sandbox is running out inexorably and 10 december is approaching. unfortunately, the deaf dialogue continues between a highly autonomous kosovo within serbian borders and a monitored independence. the parliamentary elections on 18 november only served to accentuate political aspirations, with a victory for the independence supporters in a ballot marked by a record abstention. the european union must therefore propose a path other than independence, thus affirming a european foreign policy. the very word independence is being used as a trap, synonymous with chaos for our europe. by validating this path, we open pandora's box with all the nationalisms, regionalisms, localisms that this implies in our own territory. in a globalized world, independence is a delusion. we must call on all parties to build a regional community for peaceful trade, respectful of democratic principles. to validate partition and independence is to strengthen nationalisms. let us remember what president mitterrand said to parliament: nationalism is war, and war is not just the past, it can be our future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this text which we are voting on tomorrow is a compromise which, in the end, satisfies almost all legal users of arms. the commission's original text suited us perfectly, and the council's positions also suited us. unfortunately, the rapporteur's positions were quite loud and we had to fight fiercely against his original positions. i would also like to thank mr podesta for his hard work, his patience and the diplomacy he has shown in the epp group and in the many working meetings. the compromises we have been able to work out satisfy all legal gun users. i must say that french hunters are satisfied with the maintenance of the four categories: this was a very important point for france and i am very happy to say tonight that we were able to keep them. i am also happy to say that i am satisfied with the central file because it also makes sense to be able to trace the weapons. i think that for the safety of the citizens, this is a very important point. the cip mark is also appreciated by the gunsmiths. we're also happy with the distance selling. we are relatively satisfied with the text as a whole. that said, i think that the past year of work should make us reflect on the question of the starting positions of the rapporteurs and i must say that we must be careful not to take too firm positions on certain starting points. if the commission and the council, if the epp group had not defended their positions vigorously, i think we would have been heading towards a text that would have been inapplicable and towards positions, towards a green ideology that would have greatly harmed hunters and legal users of weapons.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tourism is of great importance to the european union. it is a major contributor to growth and job creation in europe. it is also a means of promoting integration, dialogue between peoples and knowledge of their respective cultures, and thus contributes to the development of a genuine european identity. in the absence of a common policy on tourism, this sector, which covers several areas and involves a wide variety of services and professions, must therefore be given due consideration at european level. the report before us today highlights this need. i congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work and, in particular, on his support for some of the priorities identified by the committee on culture. thanks to its diversity and richness, europe remains the most visited tourist region in the world. to enable it to maintain this position in the face of increasing competition, we must rethink our policy, modernise it, taking greater account of culture. while stressing the need to preserve europe's cultural and natural heritage and to support traditional culture, in particular the traditional crafts and skills which are in danger of disappearing, it is also important to encourage initiatives aimed at enhancing and promoting this heritage. in this context, it is appropriate, among other things, to support the european heritage label which will, i am convinced, strengthen the sense of belonging and membership of our citizens to a common identity and cultural space. it is also essential to encourage the development of new technologies, which are playing a major role today and will play even more in the future in the marketing of tourist products, in the promotion of cultural goods and events and in the management and conservation of sites. in conclusion, it is necessary to give priority, in cooperation with all tourism stakeholders and at all levels, to sustainable, quality, competitive, environmentally friendly, responsible and, above all, accessible tourism.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tourism is of course a very important part of the economy of our regions, but it also represents, in a certain way, the continuation of the construction of european identity and our cohesion policy. of course, it often helps to maintain activity in the most remote regions and is often the main resource of the so-called peripheral regions. this comprehensive report highlights the key areas where the union can add real value today, in order to optimise this resource intelligently so that it benefits everyone, tourism professionals and tourists themselves, in short europeans, by preserving the quality of our landscapes and ecosystems in the long term. for my part, coming from a region which is fortunate enough to have three european neighbours, i am particularly sensitive to border tourism and i hope that through partnerships this type of tourism will enable the construction of a genuine living space for european citizens, on the one hand, which goes beyond the internal borders of the union, on the other. but to open ourselves even more to tourism from outside the community, we must now have a coordinated policy for the granting of tourist visas. i would also like europe to develop statistical tools and a transversal approach to community financing to enable these so-called leverage effects on innovation, employment, and the improvement of the supply and quality of services. i hope that we will create european quality labels which take account of ecological and social criteria and that we will simply strengthen the information and protection of european consumers.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be able to present to you today this report on the allocation of macrofinancial assistance to lebanon. it is a testament to the european union's commitment to helping the country recover from the successive crises it has been through. lebanon is now one of the most indebted countries in the world, with a debt equivalent to 180% of its gdp. the impact of the civil war from 1975 to 1990, the conflict with israel in the summer of 2006, chronic political instability and economic policy erraticities have led to a severe economic, financial and social crisis in the country. the reality of this situation calls for urgent action. however, the funds linked to the adoption last january of the eu-lebanon action plan under the european neighbourhood policy will only be available from 2009. the exceptional macro-financial assistance we are about to adopt will close this gap and will have an immediate impact on lebanon's public finances and balance of payments, provided it is implemented without delay. this assistance will take the form of a donation of eur 30 million, supplemented by a loan of eur 50 million to help the lebanese state complete post-war reconstruction and continue its economic recovery. my report fully endorses the need for this financial aid to lebanon. it also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. first of all, it should be noted that this aid must be strictly complementary to the funding provided by the bretton woods institutions, the paris club, bilateral donors and europe under other programmes. it must be consistent with the union's external policies or means of action already in place and ensure the added value of the community's engagement. it is also necessary that the council explicitly and publicly endorses the recommendations of parliament as regards the conditions and criteria for the granting of this assistance, namely the improvement of transparency and sustainability of public finances, the application of defined macroeconomic and budgetary priorities, the implementation of specific provisions to avoid the risks of fraud, corruption and misuse of funds, the distribution of assistance in a fair balance between post-conflict spending, reconstruction, excessive debt and the social needs of the population, and full compliance with international standards on democracy, respect for human rights and the fundamental principles of the rule of law. the disbursement of such assistance to lebanon should be conditional upon the achievement of real progress towards the above objectives, which should be contained in a memorandum of understanding agreed with the lebanese authorities. i would also like to mention, in addition to the substantive work we have done on this text, the difficulties encountered in the practical preparation of this report, given the urgency with which it was dealt with. in future, therefore, any decision on the granting of macrofinancial assistance would require the commission and the council to consult us much earlier. in order for parliament to do its job properly, it is essential that it be better informed in good time. in this respect, the establishment by the commission of an early warning system would ensure a faster handling of the case by the competent parliamentary committee and avoid unnecessary delays, which could have detrimental consequences for the final beneficiary. the quality and consistency of our work, and the quality of our collaboration with the other institutions, depend heavily on this. in continuity with parliament's previous resolutions, i would also stress that such an important instrument cannot be regarded as merely exceptional. it must be based on a normal legal basis and not just on an ad hoc council decision taken on a case-by-case basis. a framework regulation on macro-financial assistance established under co-decision is necessary to strengthen transparency, accountability, monitoring and reporting systems. we must therefore consider the possibility of starting an interinstitutional discussion on the appropriate legal basis for this type of instrument. in the case of macrofinancial assistance to lebanon, which is both a country covered by the european neighbourhood policy and classified as a developing country, it seems to us that the legal basis on which this act should have been based should have been article 179 instead of article 308 of the ec treaty. it is precisely because lebanon is a developing country that parliament also insists on not neglecting the social aspect of the reforms which the lebanese government would be called upon to undertake. according to the united nations development programme, nearly 24% of lebanese live in conditions of extreme poverty and 52% are considered disadvantaged. in addition, illiteracy affects nearly 9% of the population, less than a third of the population finishes primary school and only 13% of lebanese reach university level. despite this reality, it is clear that at present the social question is not at the centre of the lebanese political debate and that the social aspect of the planned reforms is very limited compared to the economic and financial aspect. it is in the interest of lebanon and its partners, as i have already stressed, to find a fair balance in spending, especially on education and training. it must be borne in mind that persistent social inequalities can have serious economic and political consequences, which can contribute to the instability of the country.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, the institutional vacuum in lebanon today is fraught with threats to the country and the region as a whole. with a dysfunctional parliament, security-conscious mps, a destabilized government and a paralyzed economy, lebanon must now find a way out of the crisis. the european union must therefore remain more than ever mobilized to support this neighbour and friend. the assistance proposed today by the european union is therefore more than ever welcome. this exceptional and limited-time aid, which is aimed at restoring the budgetary situation of a country whose efforts to reduce the debt burden were destroyed by the deadly conflict in the summer of 2006, is fully in line with the neighbourhood policy and the euro-mediterranean partnership. this is not a conventional assistance framework, as this budgetary support will strengthen lebanon's sovereignty and political and economic independence. of course, this aid will have to be subject to an anti-fraud control mechanism to ensure greater transparency in the management and disbursement of funds. we must also ensure that the financial institutions working on the reconstruction of that country are better coordinated. the implementation of the neighbourhood instrument, imf measures and femip actions must be carried out in a coherent manner in order to guarantee effective and sustainable aid. at a time when the annapolis conference is opening a small window of hope, lebanon remains a key element for peace and stability in the region.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report which has been presented to you is relatively important on the eve of the bali conference. international trade is growing, as we know, at twice the rate of the world's gross domestic product. as it grows, it first leads to an increase in the transport sector, one of the most productive sectors of greenhouse gases. secondly, it allows for a relocation of productive activity, which may be optimal in terms of the implementation of productive forces and the use of wage rules, but which, insofar as it does not take into account the greenhouse gas costs that this division of labour generates, can in turn accelerate the production of greenhouse gases and climate change. to give you a single figure, the ship, which carries 40 times more cargo than the airplane, produces only twice as many greenhouse gases, but we still fly the goods to optimize the production cycle. so i think that after the stern report, after the four reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, we are aware that, after all, it is worth waiting half a day or even three days more for a commodity to arrive on its market, rather than destroying the climate at a cost that the stern report estimates at five trillion dollars. the report before you, beyond this observation, tries to open up some avenues. there are obviously all the transportation-related tracks. we welcome the recent vote on the integration of aviation into the european system of quotas. the report calls for a reflection on industrial organization reducing the geographical scale of production circuits - producing closer to the final consumer - and it makes a number of proposals on trade in environmental goods itself. we propose, both in the wto and in bilateral or bi-regional agreements - in short, all the agreements we are negotiating at the moment - to give priority to the assessment of the effects on climate change in the environmental impact assessments of these agreements, to the significant reduction of all tariff and non-tariff barriers - we are thinking in particular of royalties - which oppose trade in clean goods and services, those which save the production of greenhouse gases. all this must of course be done in the most multilateral possible framework, preferably in the wto, if not in the bi-regional agreements that europe is currently negotiating. but we cannot rule out the possibility that after 2012, in the first post-kyoto period, humanity has not yet reached a unanimous agreement on the fight against climate change. if so, it is certain that the choices europe makes to be a leader in the fight against climate change may harm some of its sectors. not all of them. in many cases, being a leader in the climate change sector means gaining a competitive edge. in some cases, and i am thinking particularly of cement, this can cause enormous problems and there is a risk of cement tourism. in that case, after all the possibilities for multilateral agreements have been exhausted, we propose that you adopt what is provided for in article 20 of gatt, namely border adjustment taxes which restore fair competition. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the essence of my proposals.
for the greens/efa group i am speaking as the chairman of the delegation for the andean community and in that capacity i have been visiting venezuela once or several times a year for several years. since i have been in this country, that is, since the time of the military coup against president chavez, i have always heard the venezuelan media shouting against president chavez, shouting at the dictatorship. in the hotels where i stayed, which were three, four, five star hotels, we were not allowed to record public television and we still are not allowed to do so. it is usually broadcast in a snowy form. the generals who carried out the military coup have been camped out in the largest square in caracas ever since the coup, and president chavez, legally elected, re-elected, re-elected, has never lifted a finger against them. venezuela is one of the countries that is trying to manage in the most peaceful way possible the conflicts that besiege all of latin america. i am not a fanatic about all the changes that president chavez has proposed to the bolivarian constitution. however, as mr matsakis has just said, it is for the venezuelan people to decide. then we can indeed apologize for the way we gave the impression of supporting the military coup. yes, it has helped a lot in radicalizing this regime. but i believe that first and foremost we must respect the decision of the venezuelan people.
that's a good question, you know. i'll contact the appropriate authorities and you'll get an answer.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the commission confirms that it will continue monitoring the developments relating to this directive and its implementation, and that it will consider, in the light of the results of that monitoring, applying follow-up measures.
mr president, i would simply like to say that the european parliament has once again shown its maturity and its sense of responsibility, and i am addressing the council, which is absent, to say that we should follow our example: we have really reached a text which is practically unanimous in our committee, and we can be proud of that. i thank all my colleagues.
i think our only weapon here is our conviction.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the commission wishes to thank the european parliament for its constructive support and welcomes the good compromise reached. as part of that compromise, the commission has agreed to make the following statement:‘the standard time limits for the regulatory procedure with scrutiny are laid down in article 5a(3) and (4) of decision 1999/468/ec. derogation from paragraphs 3 and 4 may be provided in duly substantiated exceptional cases. the objective of curtailment of time limits under the regulatory procedure with scrutiny included in the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the council amending regulation (ec) no 396/2005 on maximum residue levels of pesticides in or on food and feed as regards the implementing powers conferred on the commission is to complete the process from application for a maximum residue level to adoption within less than one year. these adaptations are necessary to ensure consistency with the proposed one-year deadline for authorisation of plant protection products included in the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market. the european commission will examine the appropriateness of curtailment of time limits under the regulatory procedure with scrutiny after two years’ experience with the authorisation procedure in the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, taking into account experience gained in the application of these procedures in the european parliament and the council.’
mr president, in paragraph 9, i would like to replace: 'welcomes the readiness of the georgian authorities to allow international observers to monitor the elections' by 'welcomes the call of the georgian authorities for international observers to monitor the elections'. this allows for a more accurate text in relation to the events.
mr landsbergis, we have a doubt: are you referring to paragraph 10 or amendment no 4?
we now see this more clearly. (the oral amendment was adopted)
mr president, again for the sake of clarity, i would like to add the term police before security forces, which would be the same as saying, therefore: 'whereas six days of opposition rallies erupted in violence when police security forces' etc.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the same spirit and because an inquiry is under way, i would like to delete the 90%, that is to say, delete the words 'up to 90%' and replace it with 'part', so it will read 'with part of the station's ...', etc.
mr president, the georgian constitution contains the terms 'referendum' and 'plebiscite', which do not mean the same thing. i therefore propose to replace the term "referendum" with the term "plebiscite", to align ourselves with the georgian constitution.
you are right, mr president, flexibility must not lead to linguistic lapses.
the house is therefore now informed. - before the vote on amendment no 18
mr president, like all my colleagues, i voted for mrs roure's report on combating racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law. i did so because i agree with the guidelines, but also because the rapporteur and the committee on civil liberties have put forward a text which is concerned with protecting freedom of thought, research and expression. any such decision carries a risk: it gives a political authority the right to tell people what is lawful or unlawful to think, say or write. in my country, we have seen inappropriate laws: mr gollnisch wanted to include in school curricula flattering mentions of france's colonial work. more subtly, laws whose orientation was not in doubt, such as that of mrs taubira, were misinterpreted or abused to initiate unjustified legal actions against historical works whose objectivity, intellectual rigor and more generally scientific quality had been unanimously praised by the community of historians. the opinion we have voted seems to me to be of a nature to prevent such deviations. firstly, because freedom of expression is solemnly recognized as a fundamental right and secondly because the framework decision is not intended to punish observations, analyses or opinions, but, which is quite different, incitement to hatred. i hope that all the member states and all the political groups will show the same concern for balance and wisdom as our rapporteur.
in writing. after more than five years of negotiations, the council finally reached agreement on the framework decision on combating certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. as mrs roure's report points out, the framework decision establishes only a minimum level of harmonisation. its effectiveness and scope are largely reduced by the many derogations it provides for. despite the efforts of the european parliament, consulted on this text, to give it more force, the framework decision remains a text that lacks ambition and is not up to the challenges at stake: the fight against racism and the sharing of our universal values. this framework decision must be seen as a first step towards a genuine fight against racism and xenophobia at european level and maximum harmonisation in this field. despite these imperfections, i supported the adoption of this report in plenary because it is essential that the european union, and the european parliament in particular, send a strong political message in favour of fundamental rights.
in writing. i agree with the minority opinion formally expressed by my colleague mr dillen. the framework directive on criminal sanctions against 'certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia' is a liberticidal law at european level, as deadly for freedom of thought and expression as the gayssot or taubira laws in france. thus, no political discourse in defence of national identities, of national historical pride, of the fight against the flow of migration or the dangers posed to the freedom of each and every one by the islamization of our continent is no longer immune from the fury of the thought police. once again europe is playing against europeans, because in the minds of the drafters of this directive and in the minds of the members who have just voted for it, there is no doubt about the alleged criminals and the alleged victims. in terms of criminal harmonization, at a time when police officers are being shot at gunpoint in the french suburbs, when our continent is still threatened by murderous terrorist acts, when repeat offenders take advantage of the abolition of borders to perpetrate horrors in several countries, there is more urgent than the formalization of the intellectual and judicial dictatorship of foreign preference and forced multiculturalism.
in writing. the subject of mrs roure's report is the fight against racism. this is a very laudable objective, but unfortunately it is used as a pretext for the implementation of a discriminatory policy against the nationals of our countries, who become second-class citizens in their own countries. two tragic events last sunday illustrate this. the murder of a young french woman, anne-lorraine schmitt, by a turkish-born repeat rapist, did not make the headlines, unlike the deaths on the same day of two "young women", moushin and larami, who, driving at high speed and without helmets, crashed into a police car on an unlicensed mini-motorcycle. the tv news reports have been widely commented on this accident; the president of the republic received the parents of the two teenagers. so, to benefit from the compassion of the state, do we have to burn and sack a city like the hundreds of scoundrels who claimed to want to avenge the death of their "friends" moushin and larami? why are innocent victims entitled to less consideration than criminals? it is high time that the causes of these aberrations were put to an end: the laxity of the authorities, the insane immigration policy pursued for 30 years and a so-called anti-racism which in france is akin to a real anti-french racism.
in writing. the european union is not just a large market, it is above all a union of peoples who share the same values and in particular the protection of everyone's fundamental rights. it was therefore urgent that the framework decision on combating certain forms of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law should finally be adopted. europe is actively fighting racism and discrimination. this is why an instrument guaranteeing the same protection in all member states against racist and xenophobic acts is necessary. we must ensure a fair balance by ensuring an equivalent level of punishment for words and actions inciting violence and hatred, while guaranteeing the right to free expression. we respect national traditions as to whether or not to condemn denialism. i regret, however, that the ambition of this proposal has been reduced by the rule of unanimity in the council. and i urge the member states to go further, together with the european parliament, when reviewing this text.
in writing. the text adopted today marks an important milestone for the audiovisual media sector but also for european citizens. it is the result of a long negotiation in which the european parliament has played a major role. it significantly improves on the original proposal of the european commission, in particular on the extension of the scope of the directive to new media and the promotion of european audiovisual works. these points ensure that traditional and digital audiovisual media can develop competitively while ensuring the cultural diversity that is europe's identity. the recognition of a right of access to short extracts is also a real step forward for broadcasters, including pan-european broadcasters, provided that this right is exercised under reasonable conditions. finally, for the first time, we will have clear rules on product placement. this practice, which already exists, is currently evolving outside any regulatory framework, to the detriment of transparency and legal certainty. with the guarantees we are offered, product placement will open up new opportunities for european audiovisual production and creation, while ensuring the necessary protection and information for consumers.
in writing. we have now reached the end of a long and arduous process. we have obtained the maximum of what the council could grant us. we have restored to the text what we considered essential and, to our very happy surprise, almost all our new proposals have been accepted. of course, we would have been more satisfied if we had been able to contain the enthusiasm of the private channels and operators in the matter of advertising liberalization. of course, we would have liked to see product placement banned. of course, we would have liked to have had more firmness on advertising to children. but it must be said that this was not the position of the majority of this house, nor of the council. because the audiovisual media services need this new legislation as soon as possible, because it must be acknowledged that the council and the german presidency have shown an open and finally fruitful cooperation, we can say that the glass is half full. the socialist group therefore supports the proposal to accept the text of the negotiations.
in writing. the proliferation of new words is one of the symptoms of an incurable defect: the lack of talent or know-how despite the wealth of existing vocabulary. it is also a drift towards a single language that serves the elite without a homeland, without faith, without laws, and their propaganda relays. the 'flexicurity' which is intended as a balanced alloy for achieving prosperity throughout europe, by a method of both economic 'flexibility' and social 'security', is a new europeanist gadget in the service of globalism. the european commission is basically just trying to relax labour law in the name of fighting unemployment. in reality, this liberal concept will mainly enable companies to lay off more easily and at lower cost in order to recruit more cheaply. i see once again the vacuum pump of extra-european immigration. but it is also a social threat, with a domino effect that will make the lowest paid a little more precarious and then affect the upper classes as well. our committee on employment and social affairs wanted to amend this text in a more social sense. this will not be enough to curb the ultra-liberal appetite of the europeanists.
in writing. "flexicurity" is a smokey concept masking the commodification not only of labour but also of workers. this smoke bomb is supposed to be from denmark. after the swedish model of the 1960s, the yugoslav model of the 1970s on self-management, the eternal mao model, the former soviet model, the blairite model, or even the zapatista model, now we have the danish model. this is andersenmania, margaret thatcher disguised as a little mermaid to make it appear that the "disposable worker" at will is secured by a few benefits, training and quick reintegration. denmark has more days of strike than france, but what does it matter. flexicurity makes it a haven for labour market flexibility and worker happiness. to wonder why he's striking anyway...what's the truth? the fact is that they are trying to produce in europe "mindongs", those chinese workers who are "half-peasants", "half-workers" producing under the worst conditions. the slogan is to lower the level of protection in the social security code and the level of protection in the labour code. flexicurity is the pharisaism applied to labour law. for an economic result as illusory as the reduction in social security contributions, which has not put an end to the asymmetries in production costs between asia and europe.
in writing. a fundamental amendment to my colleague ole christensen's report on common principles of flexicurity was unfortunately rejected by the majority of the european parliament. i therefore voted against this report. amendment no 41 on the promotion of a european wage policy proposed a minimum wage at least equal to 50% of the national average wage: this seemed to me to be essential in the fight against low wages, which often lead to poverty. harmonising the minimum wage at european level could make decisive progress in terms of the employment conditions of european workers. i can only regret this vote which has unfortunately once again blocked the progress of social europe towards greater justice and cohesion.
in writing. the new european tourism policy must take better account of consumer protection. that is why i encourage the certification of websites offering tourist services. consumers must be offered a clear and transparent offer, meeting safety standards, in terms of booking and payment. despite the real progress made in promoting the 'destination europe' through the creation of a tourist destination portal, i ask the commission and the member states to continue their efforts to better highlight the isolated regions with a high tourist potential (in particular the outermost regions), for which tourism is the main sector of activity and a decisive element of their economic and social development. i also encourage industry to agree on a harmonised rating system for accommodation, including the establishment of public-private partnerships to achieve this. finally, i would ask the commission to carry out an impact study on the consequences of seasonality, both at regional level and over time. a better understanding of this phenomenon will help us to combat it more effectively.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.20 p.m.)
mr president, the council of ministers in strasbourg on thursday 6 december delivered its decision in the case between the european parliament and some of its employees. i quote: 'notice that the contract for the provision of manpower and the european parliament is null and void; notes that the contract of employment between manpower and the employees is void; the court of first instance held that the contractual relationship between the applicant employee and the european parliament must be reclassified as an employment contract for an indefinite period. i would like to commend the courage of the auxiliary officers who were able to ignore bullying and other provocations in order to secure their rights. i hope, mr president, that very soon instructions will be given to the administration to put an end to this affair, which has only discredited our institution in the eyes of the world of work.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive which parliament is to adopt at second reading is extremely important because it is the first directive requiring member states to have an environmental strategy to restore the good ecological condition of the seas and oceans. we have already stressed its importance in the first reading of the report because recent scientific reports show that the survival of fisheries resources and biodiversity in the seas and oceans is particularly threatened. some even say that in fifty years there will be no fish left. in addition, the oceans play a fundamental regulatory role for the climate and their pollution risks reducing this regulatory function, accentuating the negative effects of climate change. it was therefore urgent and necessary for the european union, having adopted a framework directive on water, in particular fresh water, to tackle the question of marine waters quickly. we have already expressed our desire to improve the existing text. i would like to begin by recalling the structural aspects of this directive and the existing texts. the first was to restore the ecological balance of our seas and oceans. the second step was to define the necessary steps for each member state: first, to work together within the marine regions or subregions; the second is to define what the water and biodiversity status was in these seas. the commission has also proposed that the member states should set up a european environment agency, which would be responsible for the coordination of environmental policy. so we found this directive to be positive, but we found it to be insufficient as it came from the commission. we have emphasized several points. firstly, the requirement that this directive be binding. binding on means, binding on results. and this is perhaps the most positive aspect of our cooperation with the council and the commission: the directive is binding. secondly, we wanted the definition of good ecological status to be rigorous so that restoration of this good status is not a wishful thinking. we have been largely satisfied that the criteria for good ecological status include the pressure of all the pollution affecting an ecosystem and the need to assess and reduce its impact in order to restore this good ecological status. thirdly, parliament is very much in favour of the establishment of marine protected areas, which are a kind of reserve and which must play a vital role in restoring the diversity of the biotope and in particular in restoring fish stocks. we would have liked a more binding, more rigorous and more severe text on the need for these reserves, but the principle has been retained. in any case, the need for them to be of sufficient size to play this role of restoring biodiversity is retained. finally, parliament wanted the scope of the directive to be extended. we particularly wanted to ensure that coastal waters were taken into account, and we did not want to remain in the dark about the need to take into account all the waters affected by tides. in any case, for a large part of them this has been the case. we would have liked to have been a little more forceful in defining the tidal return, but the text is satisfactory. i would like to stress the importance of coherence in the strategies by geographical area: we would have liked a tougher text, but the need for coherence is affirmed. finally, our baltic colleagues wanted the baltic states to be a kind of pilot project which would allow us to move faster in view of the urgency of the situation. they could not be fully satisfied because the tradition in our courts is not to mention any particular sector. nevertheless, the idea of a pilot zone is retained and i have no doubt that the commission will retain the baltic within this framework. finally, the timetable: for us the main thing was that the directive should be binding, even if the time-limit given to the member states to achieve this was extended a little. this is the compromise that was finally agreed. the deadline is 2020, but member states must act quickly because they will have to transpose the directive by 2010. i would also ask them not to waste time, because the water directive is running behind schedule and our seas may not be able to wait.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we remember the who appeal launched on 5 october 2006 which challenged the international community to improve air quality. the aim was to adopt the strictest standards for air pollution and to reduce the number of deaths in polluted cities by 15%. the european union, which is often at the forefront of environmental regulation, was very disappointed at first reading, to the point that our environment commissioner, mr dimas, was personally outraged by the european parliament's position, which weakened existing legislation which was already not very voluntary. the green group had warned the environment committee at second reading on 9 october 2007 of the counterproductive effects of administrative simplification, namely the increase in the number of days allowed for exceeding the maximum values and the extension of the derogations covering certain pollutants. the compromise reached at the european parliament's second reading, which was negotiated recently, limits the damage in comparison with the first reading. for pm 2.5 in urban areas, a new concentration threshold of 20 micrograms per cubic metre is proposed, which should be reviewed by the european commission in 2015. of course, additional devices could be activated to take account of the situation of sensitive populations, such as children and the elderly. even if it improves the initial situation, this compromise is not a great step forward for our european parliament. it will not oblige member states to take the binding measures necessary to improve the health of the european population. the impact of air pollution is still estimated to be nine months less life expectancy for our citizens. so we must go further and integrate more upstream the limitation of particulate matter from prevention instruments aimed at limiting emissions from sectors, in particular transport, as well as those from industries.
mr president, we have all acknowledged, and we all say, that our towns and cities are becoming more and more polluted and that, unfortunately, the number of deaths caused by pollution is increasing. i myself, who presides over an air quality monitoring network in my department, having already set it up more than 16 years ago, would like to point out that reducing air pollution is perceived by our fellow citizens as the priority for action by the public authorities in the field of environmental protection, and that it is even the main concern of 54% of the french. this text thus provides a response to the increase in respiratory diseases such as asthma, bronchitis and emphysema, which primarily affect young children - let us not forget bronchiolitis in the youngest children during the winter - and lung cancers in the youngest. the introduction of new standards for the finest, most harmful particles, which were not regulated until now, is therefore a satisfactory measure. but we have a multitude of solutions for better air quality: actions on fuels, on modes of transport, on vehicles. the package of community legislation which we already have and which, unfortunately, is not respected in most member states, would still have to be applied. the texts we are voting on tomorrow require member states to set up collection points in urban areas. in fact, everyone should have "particle plans". we also need to provide the public, especially sensitive people, with daily information on particulate matter in ambient air. finally, we must not forget the quality of indoor air, where we sometimes spend more than 80% of our time. little attention is paid to studies of the quality of the indoor environment, whereas the health impact is certainly at least as important as that of the outdoor environment.
member of the commission. mr president, let me start by responding to ms thyssen on what we are doing to enhance our positive influence on the chinese market. if we are to achieve success, europe should develop its role as a standard-bearer, and that is exactly what we are trying to do. rapex-china gives the chinese authorities access to details of risks found in chinese products sold in europe, and this is a very valuable source of information for them. china is currently setting up its own national rapid-warning system, copying the european one. this really represents a great success for product safety at world level. it ensures that information is spread swiftly to local offices for action, and this should start by the end of the year. if this continues to develop as envisaged, europe will be able to congratulate itself, by the end of the year, on a major success, as it has established the pattern for the chinese authorities. i would like also to highlight that next year will be a very intensive one for me in respect of elaborating a new memorandum of understanding with china, owing to the fact that the current memorandum, which has been in effect since 2006, will expire at the beginning of 2009. this will be a matter for very concrete work by the commission. many of you have referred to the toys directive. i cannot comment on something which comes under the responsibility of vice-president verheugen, as the toys directive is part of his portfolio, although we enjoy excellent cooperation. however, you should be aware that a revision of the toys directive is in the pipeline and will be presented very soon. before my meeting with you, i checked with the services of commissioner verheugen, and with him in person, and know that this directive will soon be discussed by the commission. i am sure that his services are working flat out. there is no mixing of our two approaches – the industry approach, which includes the toys directive and the approach on which i base my activities, which includes a general product safety directive. i can assure you that the distinction within the commission is really very clear. that is exactly what we are trying to do through the new approach – to keep these two sets of checks parallel to each other. one set concerns requirements on toys as industrial goods, and the other one, over and above those efforts, concerns checks at any given point on how safe the toys are for our children. one good example is the magnets used in toys. these now come under the general product safety directive, and we are able to carry out checks, ban dangerous products and ask for a new standard, with the toys in the mean time being covered by a warning, and then we will come up with a proposal. there will most probably be standardisation, and a ban on certain uses for magnets. this approach is based precisely on filling the gap on safety, through a true general product safety directive. this is an excellent example of why we need to keep the two approaches together. i started to respond to ms rühle concerning magnets. the college will consider my proposal to adopt a targeted measure to require specific warnings on magnetic toys, and this would fill the gap until the relevant standards properly address this risk. as you know, this process is a little long, but that is not up to the commission. this is legislation which we are simply executing concerning the way we implement on our standards. i would like to dwell for a second on the opinion expressed by mr matsakis. my line is quite simple, because i believe that mr harbour answered in a very consistent manner. i do not think that dangerous toys have a passport, and we should address the danger from wherever the danger comes. let me just remind you that although 50% of the dangerous toys in europe come from china, i am surprised that we have not discussed at all where the other 50% comes from. i have to tell you that 30% of dangerous toys come precisely from europe. that is why i really insist on safety, regardless of passports. we must consider again how important confidence is to our markets. i am not going to outsource that responsibility. article 1 of the general product safety directive states that all producers should only produce safe goods, and that whoever places a good on the market for the first time – be it the importer, the retailer or the producer – should check the safety of toys, for which he is liable. with reference to ms iotova, i would like to answer in bulgarian because it was in that language that she put her question. моят отговор беше съвсем конкретен, според стандартите на комисията. това, което направихме през тази една година, имаше за цел да подобри законодателството. да, част от това законодателство е свързана с индустриалните стоки и е в портфолиото на друг комисар, но ние работим по много от въпросите заедно. част от въпросите, които се зададоха, засягат и директивата reach, което отново не е в моето портфолио, но отново ние правим необходимото, за да може да се осигури безопасността на базата на съществуващото законодателство. направиха се многобройни срещи с всички участници в този процес - и с производителите, и с органите в съответните страни, и с търговците на дребно, и с много от неправителствените организации. аз искам освен това да ви кажа, че ние не правим по някакъв начин оценка и не определяме страните на нови и стари в това отношение. безопасността на стоките е еднакво важна и в новите, и в старите страни. уверявам ви, че има стари страни-членки, преди голямото разширяване с дванадесетте нови страни, които също имат своите сериозни проблеми и аз нямам намерение да ги изоставя. но, разбира се, отговорността на комисията по отношение на приложението на законодателството, и особено в новите страни-членки, е нещо, което безспорно е много близко до сърцето ми. затова това, което аз правя в новите страни, е повече разговори с властите, повече настояване да се включи бюджет, национален бюджет, за да може този бюджет да помогне да се развият органите, които да осъществяват контрол на пазара. мога да ви кажа, г-жо йотова, че българският пазар разполага със 180 инспектори. вчера, всъщност днес сутринта, имах разговори отново с всички участници в тази верига на безопасност и ние сключихме този "коледен пакт", в който освен производителите, както се случи на европейско ниво, този път в българия участват и търговците, участват и държавните органи. след така настойчивите разговори, които имах с министерство на икономиката в българия, проверките са увеличени четири пъти. така че аз ще продължа да работя в тази посока и, както и предишния път имах удоволствието да го направя, и сега, от пленарна зала, ви каня да се присъедините и да направим нещо заедно. уверена съм, че така ще имаме по-голям успех. i would like to end where i started, which is to say that all our actions should be proportional and based on solidarity and subsidiarity, which will give us additional strength to tackle this very important problem. i have listened carefully to all of you, to your kind words and to your calls to step up our work. if at any point there are specific cases which you would like to discuss with me, i would be more than happy to continue doing this.
member of the commission. mr president, i agree that fire is a permanent threat to consumers’ lives. research estimates that the number of fatalities per million inhabitants per year is 10.8 in the uk, 6 in spain, 11.8 in france, 15.7 in sweden and 7.3 in germany. so, as commissioner for consumer protection, this is a matter of major concern for me. thank you for remembering this important issue. let me recall the tragic case involving a british family whose two children were killed by carbon monoxide poisoning in a hotel room in corfu in october 2006. i have received several letters from you about this case. we contacted the greek authorities and they informed us that the hotel where the accident happened had its licence immediately revoked and has not been operating since then. i know that legal proceedings are taking place in greece and i hope they will come to a clear conclusion very soon. this is an emblematic case, but unfortunately this is not the only one. fire safety in hotels has been at the centre of discussions with the member states for the last 20 years. first, the results that have been achieved so far. council recommendation 86/666/ec on fire safety in existing hotels has helped to improve safety levels, especially in those countries where no or scarce regulation was available. furthermore, the construction products directive sets up specific requirements in the event of an outbreak of fire for all construction works, including hotels. several measures have been adopted to ensure a consistent application of this directive in the member states, such as a common system for classifying fire resistance of construction products and a number of harmonised european standards in the fields of fire-fighting, alarm and alerting equipment. in addition, the requirements of the council recommendation addressing the risks linked to electrical lighting have been implemented by the low voltage directive. however, there is still a lot of ground to cover in making all hotels in europe equally safe, whether existing or new and regardless of their size and accommodation facilities. as we know, the requirements are for the hotels that have at least 20 rooms. in its various discussions with the member states, the commission has noted that no common way forward for an eu-wide action has yet been agreed upon and that the proper enforcement of national legislation is, so far, the main priority. this issue of compliance is indeed a problem that should not be underestimated, and i am really sad to say this. this is why i have asked the major hotel chains present in europe to come to brussels for a meeting with me on 8 february 2008. obviously, until we have this legislation in place, we should take our immediate action. we will discuss the hotel safety issue and i will report back to you on the results of this consultation. if we can do it together with parliament – if parliament would like to participate in this meeting on 8 february – i will be more than glad to have this meeting with you. the collection of eu-wide data and statistics is a critical point: absence of statistical definitions and homogeneity in the way fire accidents are registered in the member states makes comparability a very difficult and inaccurate exercise. i would like to move on to the point of standardisation. standardisation without the support of a legal framework, such as a european directive or even a revised recommendation, would severely reduce its impact, and the ultimate objective of ensuring fire safety in hotels would be frustrated as a result. coming to the issue of sprinklers: their efficiency in reducing the devastating effect of fires has been largely demonstrated, but the cost of their installation and maintenance is not always compatible with the type of hotels that are mostly present in europe, such as small, family-type hotels. next to this, the decision of whether sprinklers or any other fire-fighting device should be compulsory in hotels falls within the exclusive competence of the member states. i would be glad to discuss with the member states and to support such measures if they are ready to take such steps. parallel to these developments on the regulatory side, it should be mentioned that hotels are adopting self-regulating performance-based codes and design methods. i think that hotel chains such as accor should be really supported in their efforts. the commission is not only dealing with fire safety in hotels under its profile as a service, but is also targeting, in a comprehensive strategy against fire risk, all those products that are largely present in hotels and most likely to be either the source of a fire or its accelerant. the initiatives of rip cigarettes, on which the chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, ms mccarthy, gave us a very important contribution, flammability of upholstered furniture, and nightwear and child-resistant lighters are the pillars of such a strategy. i am looking forward to continuing our cooperation on this very important issue which is a major concern for all of us. i would like once more again to thank parliament and especially the president because we are taking concrete measures with what is in our hands right now.
member of the commission. mr president, i will immediately make a commitment before you that i will address this issue during our meeting with the tourist sector. this is not a secret; we have told you that this meeting is very much provoked by our conversation and by the very sad loss of two children. how to make this legislation obligatory is part of the possible way of thinking, but we should really look very carefully at the discussion in the council and see what the opinion of the member states is, and to make a good balance between what some of the member states are already doing – they are some way ahead – and what they are ready to do at the level of obligatory measures taken by the community. i am absolutely convinced that we need to address the safety of services and, more than convinced, i included this in the strategy for consumer protection 2007-2013. the 21st century is not a manufacturing one. the 21st century, i believe, will be much more the century of services, which is why i am convinced that these issues should be addressed through the concept of the safety of services, focusing on where we need to legislate to do this and where we need to rely more on self-regulation – which could very usefully be stepped up – to do our best and to cooperate very closely with member states, which, in the end, will provide support, if this legislation is approved.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the common framework of reference on european contract law by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-0073/2007 - b6-0386/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, this is not just a courtesy: it is always a great pleasure to listen to such distinguished lawyers talking about one of the most important things to have happened in recent years in the area of civil law. however, i know that you want me to be as practical as possible. so let me just tell you that in 2008 the commission needs to decide on the scope – in respect of the time schedule, content and form – of the cfr, and how to carry out the above work in terms of methodology, human and financial resources and distribution of work amongst the dgs concerned: justice, freedom and security, the internal market and services, enterprise and industry, the secretary-general, and health and consumer protection. a meeting of director-generals or their representatives will take place on the 11 december – which means tomorrow – and the intention is to prepare a college decision in 2008 on the scope, contents and form of the cfr. as you know, and i kept you informed, i asked the college of commissioners about the cfr and sent them a note on the subject this year. on optional instruments, the commission has announced in the single market review that it will look at the merits of such an initiative in the area of financial services, and i think that this is a good sign. all of you referred to the framework directive relating to the consumer acquis. i believe that this is a very good exercise and, whatever we are doing with consumer credit or with the timeshare, we are trying to avoid this concentration on the horizontal instrument because i believe that we currently need a discussion on the timeshare in parliament. but we need to define the framework scope, and i believe that we will have an excellent test of how united we are when we harmonise the main pillars of contract law as a backbone during the framework directive. i will, of course, gladly undertake to keep you personally informed of what is going on in this very important field.
i have received, in accordance with rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 december.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the tenth anniversary of the ottawa convention on the prohibition of antipersonnel mines.
we'll pass it on to the council. the debate is closed.
mr president, commissioner, we are all in agreement with you that you want to put an end to subsidies which encourage overproduction and have unacceptable adverse effects, but we cannot accept your proposal to make wine, which is first and foremost a crop rooted in a particular region, an increasingly standardized product which can be marketed all over the world and which can be modified according to fashion and marketing! i would like to stress two points. first, the absolute need to protect geographical indications and designations of origin, which are regularly called into question and which nevertheless enshrine the link to the soil that characterizes the european agricultural model. we ask you to promote this model and not sell it on the altar of the supermarket for the sole benefit of the soup vendors. secondly, much greater attention has been paid to the ecological cultivation of the vine, which still requires a great deal of inputs and chemicals. in this connection, we ask for specific support for organic wine, for which the specifications are being drawn up. the future lies in the biodiversity of the land, the crops and the tastes, the development and promotion of the quality and the extraordinary richness of european vines, and these are the principles which should form the basis of this reform.
the commissioner, beyond its technical aspects of envelopes, premiums and plantations, this project - the third in 15 years - is really three ideas in the service of one objective. the first idea is malthusianism. the commission does not like the winegrowers, so it wants to pull out, throw away the grapes, prohibit the grape harvesting, curb production, just as we have created a shortage of milk or wheat. in fact, the second idea is capitalism of profit laissez-faire, laissez-faire of plantations, imports, mixtures of water, wood chips, "pinocchio wine", imported must to make a global wine soup. the third idea is globalism: after the single market, the single currency, the single wine; the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including the one on the protection of the environment, which is to be adopted by the council of ministers in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the protection of the environment. the wine-growing cmo will eventually become a real estate cmo. i am therefore the representative of the indian wine growers. i do not want your scalp, commissioner, i simply want the people of the vineyard, who have been producing happiness for over 2000 years, to be allowed to live in peace.
i hope you will hear the message from the committee on agriculture, which has made important changes to your reform proposal. i support the rejection of the automatic liberalisation of planting rights in 2014, particularly for wines protected by designations of origin and geographical indications. for other wines, the decision to liberalise planting rights should only be taken after the effects of the reform of the cmo have been measured. as regards the chaptalisation, i think it is important that we do not lose our strength on this issue. the important thing is to maintain the oenological practices that make up the quality and identity of european wines. i would like to speak more particularly on the question of table wines. the european commission's proposal provides for the possibility of referring to a specific provenance for table wines: for example, wine from the coasts of provence, wine from andalusia, wine from tuscany, etc. this will inevitably create confusion in the minds of consumers and unfair competition between wines with designations of origin, which comply with strict specifications, and table wines, which enjoy a great deal of freedom of production. so let us stick to the current legislation, the only reference being that of the state in which the wine is produced: wine from spain, wine from italy, wine from france. as regards the information on the label, i think it is important to mention the quality of the bottler: independent winegrower, producer group or other. the wine-growing profession as practiced in europe enjoys a positive image, which is not necessarily the case for wines produced in other parts of the world. i think it is therefore important to be able to communicate on this subject. in conclusion, i should like to congratulate our rapporteur, who brought a large number of members together on a compromise text, in an often passionate debate, giving clear messages for the european union to remain the world's leading wine producer, to ensure the future of more than one and a half million wine-growing enterprises and to maintain its position as the leading exporter.
madam president, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr castiglione, for having significantly changed the commission's position. we are faced with a paradox: on the one hand, we have never drunk so much wine in the world and, on the other hand, in ten to fifteen years' time we will be witnessing an unprecedented increase in wine consumption in the world and yet we are told that there is european overproduction. i therefore feel that rather than overproduction there is a crisis of commercialisation, and marketing essentially, and that is why i would not want the reform which is being proposed to us today to be tempted by the slightest levelling down to align itself with the new producing countries. let us remember what has happened to european industry. today, the first european industrial power to manufacture high-end goods is germany. it has remained in the high end, it has refused to level off its production from below and it is now the world's leading exporting country, despite the arrival of china and india on the international scene. i don't think we can sell the quality of our vineyard and its brand image. so we must not give in to the crude industrialization of wine which would mean that tomorrow there would be a heineken wine, a danone wine, a coca-cola wine, a pepsi-cola wine. i have the impression that the commission is tempted to say: let us liquidate the small and free the big. i'm sure we'd lose our souls! that is why i ask you, commissioner, to ensure that everything that makes wine quality and everything that can improve it - yield reductions, marketing aids, the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin - is preserved, not only within the union but also outside it, in the context of the major multilateral trade negotiations. i think this is absolutely essential, otherwise we would probably lose one of the most important elements of our agriculture and of our european civilization: wine is a product of culture and civilization. that is why we cannot give in to the mirages of the market and industrialisation.
madam president, madam commissioner, yes, a reform of the com is desirable, but are the means put forward by the commission the most adequate? from brussels, we can understand the mathematical equation between the fall in production and the fall in the number of producers, but from the south-west of france, from the plains of italy, the spanish or portuguese coasts, commissioner, i assure you, it is not the same and this is a subject which should not be looked at through the prism of the economist. viticulture is about men and women living off the fruit of their labor. the vineyard is their life, and they cannot be driven out without worrying about what their daily life will be like. what is the logic of wanting to remove planting rights and proposing to liberalize them completely from 2013 onwards? the second question is: why do we want to abolish this regulatory instrument when there is no certainty as to what the market will be like? if we really want to combat overproduction, i propose that we start by ordering the uprooting of illegal plantations. but as you and i know, there are a few hectares of them in europe. the report also provides for a wider variety of measures available through national support programmes. this is a good thing, because the commission's proposal on this point is very restrictive. i regret that the part devoted to crisis prevention is not sufficient. we know how much wine production varies from year to year, depending on the unpredictable weather, and measures to prevent crises will only help to mitigate these fluctuations. finally, i would like to conclude by saying that i understand the rapporteur's caution on the sensitive issue of enrichment, but it is regrettable that authorization is not being proposed for the combination of additive and subtractive enrichment methods, which would reduce the use of sucrose. the general direction of the report seems to me to be in the right direction and i will support the excellent work of the rapporteur.
in writing. the european commission has a very difficult time breaking out of the stereotypical approaches it applies to all sectors without distinction. wine cannot be treated like car parts or some other kind of industrial manufactured product. it is a production that shapes regions, cultures and lifestyles. as for the reform of the cmo, if necessary, it must help to preserve european viticulture, not to make it disappear or disfigure it. it must support the adaptation of producers - in particular the restructuring of the downstream sectors - and must aim to enable them to regain the internal market. on the other hand, restrictions on planting rights should not be lifted. they are the guarantee of control of production and of maintaining its quality. finally, as regards crisis management tools, if parliament improves the situation compared with the commission's initial proposal, i can only regret that crisis distillation - which, if made compulsory, would no longer give rise to the excesses we have seen - is no longer included in the range of possible instruments for managing cyclical crises.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to begin by thanking parliament for its efforts on this report and, of course, especially the rapporteur mr mulder and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development. i know from various talks that mr mulder closely follows this topic, and my services and i have carefully assessed the different amendments that have been proposed. i have read with great interest the report drawn up by mr mulder. i really appreciate the strong, dedicated interest of both mr mulder and the european parliament on this topic. i also appreciate the support that the rapporteur repeatedly expressed for cross-compliance in his report. as i have said several times, this system is right and necessary and it needs to stay if we want society to support our agricultural payments. i know that we are completely on the same line. i could broadly agree with the explanatory statement accompanying the amendments proposed in the report. in particular, i can endorse the call for having the simplest possible system without watering down its efficiency. i think we have fulfilled this objective to a large extent with the proposal concerning the control and the sanction system. of course, we have the possibility and the chance to continue this work in our health check, where we will mainly focus on the scope of the application of the cross-compliance system. as regards the amendments tabled to our proposal for a council regulation, we all have to keep in mind that the discussions were very lively in the council. our initial proposal has evolved and we now have a compromise text agreed by the commission that is the result of intense discussions. the portuguese presidency has, as far as possible, reflected in the compromise the ideas that you have been raising in the preparation of your report. on the concrete amendments to the legal provisions you are now proposing, i have to say that they are not relevant to the council regulation we are discussing just now: a number of them concern the control rules that are under commission competence and, as i said, the new commission rules will soon be finally approved. i think mr mulder’s main concerns have been taken on board, and this is the case, in particular, for the improved flexibility that member states will have to adapt the control system to their administrative organisation. we have also widely extended the possibility for prior notice of controls. another set of parliament proposals has been discussed in depth at the council and the compromise reflects all those different opinions. it is a case of the possibility of getting rid of the 10-month rule – i think fixing a date is a much better idea – the follow-up for the de minimis and minor infringement cases, and the phasing-in of full cross-compliance for the new member states applying the simplified system. we want to stick to this compromise text, which was intensively negotiated. finally, we will take the opportunity to discuss your proposal to extend the period for the prolongation of the single area payments scheme (saps) system; we will have this opportunity within the discussion on the health check. as you might have noticed, i personally consider this a very good idea. i will be back for final comments.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank and congratulate mr mulder on his work and also on his method and on the various consultations he has conducted. in its report on the implementation of the conditionality of agricultural aids, the commission acknowledged that the initial phase of the application of this system was rather difficult. it has set itself the objective of increasing its acceptance by all actors. it recommends that questions arising from the community framework be distinguished from those relating to national implementation. it stresses the importance of the principle of subsidiarity, the need to adapt standards and requirements to local risks and requirements, and the importance of a common framework guaranteeing equal treatment for european farmers. this double layer of rules has made the implementation of the system very difficult. information to farmers was not sufficient; the risk criteria were not used extensively; the management, control and reduction system is too complex; the accounting for minor non-compliances has not been adequate; the control rates are not harmonised; the prior notification of controls is problematic. i personally do not wish to call into question the spirit of conditionality, which meets the legitimate expectations of our society: respect for the environment, traceability, food safety, transparency. i would like to stress, however, the burdensome nature of the regulations, the difficulties of applying them on the ground and the negative perception of some farmers, who feel that their professionalism and know-how are being called into question. i therefore support the need for simplification. i was disappointed by the commission's proposals, which were very limited, but i hope that parliament's proposals will be taken up and that the commission will make more ambitious ones when it comes to the health check. i would like to stress that i do not entirely agree with the compensatory logic that because european farmers are subject to strict production conditions (animal welfare, environment, veterinary practices) they receive agricultural aid. agricultural aid would in a way restore conditions of fair competition with farmers in third countries who are not subject to the same production conditions. i think that it is because farmers receive public aid that they have to respect certain production rules in return. the aim is to establish a genuine contract between farmers and the european union. we have to go from coercion to contract, sort of. i am therefore pleased that my amendment on this subject has been adopted and that the farmer is required, when making his single application and declaring the area used for agricultural purposes, to also commit to respecting criteria of public health, animal welfare and respect for the environment. the reductions in payments must be different depending on whether the infringement is intentional or merely due to negligence, and i have also insisted that the penalty be proportionate to the importance of the area concerned by the non-compliance on the farm, particularly where polyculture and livestock farming are combined. the same rules must also be binding on farmers in the different member states and it is therefore necessary to ensure a harmonious transposition of the regulatory management requirements contained in the directives. i also welcome the adjustment measures for the new member states. on the other hand, while i am in favour of introducing a de minimis threshold, above which member states may decide not to apply a reduction in direct aid, i am totally opposed to raising this threshold to eur 250 as proposed in amendment no 16. if this were the case, most infringements leading to aid cuts would not be punished and the system of aid conditionality would no longer make sense. i therefore ask you to support mr mulder's amendment no 31, which proposes a threshold of 100 euro, a compromise which i think could be supported by all.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank our colleague, mr jan mulder, for his report and for his method. i am glad that this parliament is looking at the mechanisms of conditionality of cap aid which, since the major reform of 2003, have shown the limits of a system whose rules are often too rigid and which have transformed the profession of farmer into that of an ad hoc official of the european administration, while they are carrying out a vital mission of humanity: feeding it. the 2003 reform is undoubtedly a step forward which must enable our agriculture to protect the environment and health, and it was in this spirit that we voted in 2005 for the new eafrd regulation which succeeded the eaggf guarantee. if i may intervene in the debate today, i do so as the cobu's permanent rapporteur for the structural funds to underline - as many of my colleagues do - how important it is to reduce excessive bureaucracy in the management of these funds. i think, again in the budget, that it is absolutely essential, firstly, that the actors in the agricultural economy and rural development, who are the first sentinels in environmental protection, should be able to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens in order to concentrate on their primary activity, that is to say, pursuing the quality agriculture we expect, an agriculture which respects the environment. secondly, i would also like the administration to concentrate its controls on really timely issues to ensure an adequate cost-benefit ratio. i think it is essential that the rules we set ourselves do not impede the use of the available funds, for which we fight so hard in every negotiation with the member states in the council. it is not normal to see such under-consumption of appropriations at the end of 2007. i shall therefore vote in favour of all these measures as long as they are geared to reducing the administrative burden.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cap should in theory ensure food security, price stability and production in the union, and decent incomes for all farmers. unfortunately, in the name of the dogma of unbridled competition, the cap 2003, with its system of decoupling aid, represents a further step towards abandoning these objectives, which are vital for europe. the utps contribute to the serious difficulties of sectors such as wine, milk, meat, beet, fruit and vegetables. the principle of ecological conditionality of the dpu is a deception designed to sell this reform to the idiots who claim to be ecological because it is trendy. how can we imagine strengthening environmental protection by increasing agricultural competition and at the same time trying to lower the purchase prices of foodstuffs? these two requirements are contradictory: it is impossible to combine the reduction of production costs with the raising of ecological standards. similarly, decoupling the premium from the maintenance of the suckler cow herd would have the immediate effect of eliminating natural carbon-capturing grasslands, which are particularly effective in combating greenhouse gas emissions. the protection of the planet and the maintenance of high-quality beef production in europe imply that we must reject decoupling. more generally, we need a different agricultural policy!
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
chairman of the econ committee. madam president, the committee on economic and monetary affairs voted on mrs ieke van den burg's report on 21 november and the council took a decision to the same effect last week. it is not the first time that we have had to take urgent decisions on these matters and we wish to support the commissioner in his desire to achieve a stabilized system. but in this context we take this report as an opportunity to send him some strong messages. the first is that we need to determine whether or not the idea of a definitive country of origin system remains the objective of the european union. we also need to give member states more flexibility in using reduced rates for basic goods with social, economic, cultural and environmental objectives. we also need to give member states the space to use reduced rates for policy purposes. finally, we need to allow reduced vat rates definitively when it comes to promoting labour-intensive services. the european parliament is ready to play its part and will support the commissioner in his determination to reach a viable solution in this area.
we now adjourn the sitting pending the formal presentation of the sakharov prize. we shall then proceed with the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. for once we were tempted to vote in favour of a report by this parliament on vat. the committee was in favour of abandoning the objective of a definitive system based on taxation in the country of consumption, which alone justified further harmonization of rates. it also favoured the application of the subsidiarity principle, which would allow member states to apply a reduced or zero rate of vat to services provided locally, such as catering or other areas, in order to meet social, educational, cultural and other objectives. it also provides for the maintenance until 2010, when the vat directive is to be reviewed, of many derogations which should have expired in 2007. all of this is fine with us. however, the desire to maintain european vat legislation and the desire to achieve identical rates at all costs in the name of simplifying trade and customs formalities in intra-european trade cannot satisfy us. taxation is a matter for the sovereign states and the disparities in one type of taxation often outweigh the inequalities in another. so they are not always illegitimate.
in writing. the commission has been wrong about vat time and again. in the 1980s the cockfield report called for a range of vat rates. in the end, there is only a 15% floor and 5% floor for the normal and reduced rates. then the european commission wanted vat at the rate of the country of origin. the practice has imposed vat at the rate of the country of destination. it was a temporary scheme, it is becoming definitive, the "bolkenstein vat" has not been passed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's budget is not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. the commission will at least provisionally give way on its list in annex h to the sixth directive of 1977. because she finds out that a german has little chance of taking his mercedes for a cross-border lunch at the low-vat restaurant. it is a pity that it did not realise in 1993 that without border controls, intra-community vat was an inexhaustible mine of massive fraud. the philosophical logic of vat, a smart tax because it is economically neutral, is inaccessible to most commission officials. that explains their incessant legislative failures for the last 20 years.
in writing. as rapporteur, i welcome the adoption of this report on the establishment of a joint undertaking for the innovative medicines initiative (imi). the establishment of this public/private partnership between the european federation of pharmaceutical industries (efpia) and the european commission is a key and promising step forward for large-scale research programmes. the european commission must look at the needs of europe from a different angle. limi will have a total budget of eur 2 billion for the period 2008-2013. the european commission's €1 billion contribution will be paid to smes and universities. in return, the large companies will match this amount by a contribution in kind. they will involve these same smes and universities by providing them with tools and methods to better predict the safety and efficacy of medicines, smart infrastructures and knowledge management. this cooperation will enable large companies, small research centres, smes and universities to put their research projects into practice. the imi will thus contribute to improving knowledge transfer within universities and enterprises, and to the involvement of small enterprises in european research.
, in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the member states to take the necessary measures to achieve 'good ecological status' of the marine environment by 2020. the marine environment is home to vital resources and its ecosystem provides essential services, such as climate regulation and oxygen production. policies on shipping, fisheries, energy and tourism have evolved separately, sometimes leading to failures, inconsistencies and conflicts of use. a more comprehensive approach was needed, taking into account all aspects of a policy for the sustainable development of the european maritime area. member states will have to develop marine strategies in several stages for the waters under the sovereignty of their marine regions. these strategies should lead to programmes of measures to achieve good ecological status by 2015. states sharing the same region or subregion will have to cooperate to ensure coordination of the different elements of the marine environment strategy. the effort must be continued with the creation of marine natural parks as the grenelle de l'environnement has stressed. the report provides for the creation of protected areas but could have been more restrictive.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report of all the pollution, air pollution is the main concern of 54% of the french. it is therefore important to provide daily information to the public, especially to sensitive persons, on particulate matter in ambient air. as chairman of the loire air quality network since 1991, i welcome the introduction of standards for the finest, often most harmful, particles which were not regulated until now, which will allow better account to be taken of the increase in respiratory diseases such as asthma, bronchitis and emphysema. the preservation of outdoor air quality must not be forgotten in the indoor environment where we sometimes spend more than 80% of our time. studies on indoor air quality are not given much attention, although its impact on health is certainly at least as important as that of the outdoor environment. the new directive will also require member states to install particulate collection points in urban areas. this measure is in line with the work we are carrying out in france within the grenelle de l'environnement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ortuondo larrea report on the revision of the rail interoperability directive, because interoperability is the key to the renewal of the european rail system. the railway will only be able to compete with the road once again, particularly if it becomes continental in scope, which depends mainly on the ability of trains to cross borders. the administrative boundaries have been considerably reduced, but technical barriers remain. i am therefore pleased that this text was agreed at first reading, because there is an urgent need for concrete progress in this area. with this text, which now clearly makes rail interoperability a political priority, the european railway area should take a big step forward.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the general budget of the european union reflects the heavy savings trends reflected in the current financial perspective. it will amount to €120 billion in payment appropriations, corresponding to 0.96% of the member states' cumulated gni. all this is very modest, very far from the real needs of the political project presented by european decision-makers to the council, the commission and here in parliament. the causes, we have often mentioned here, are national selfishness which undermines the common edifice, the excessive caution of the commission in implementing our budgetary guidelines, or the union's overall inability to find innovative and realistic projects. this year again, under the guidance of our excellent rapporteurs, including mr virrankoski, we have had to find solutions to develop policies which we consider essential and new pilot projects which citizens are looking forward to. this year we have again seen the very narrow financial framework for european intervention in the world, which does not make it easy for us to pass on the commitments relating to palestine and kosovo. but this year, a project broke through that rigidity: galileo. and let me thank in particular commissioner grybauskaitė, mr romero, president böge and mr virrankoski, and all the members of cobu, elected members and directors, who, with their firm conviction and their negotiating strategy, made it possible to obtain a financing agreement with the council. i would like to say: 'it is fortunate that the commission and parliament were there', but i do not want to forget the role of the portuguese presidency around mr santos, who, with his know-how and his ability to listen, managed to unblock everything. it should be remembered that, at the end of the negotiations, it was the whole of europe that got galileo to be financed entirely by community funds. together with the european institute of technology, this package amounts to eur 2.7 billion without prejudice to any of the union's policies. this fact of joint political demand is rare in the budgetary history of parliament. the socialists interpret it as a sign of hope not only for autonomy in the union's satellite guidance from 2013 but above all as a sign of parliament's ability to assume its powers and take its responsibilities in drawing up the future budget of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, many of us voted in 2006 for the multiannual budget on the financial perspective, which is known as 'death in the soul'. we were well aware that the contribution of the member states would be insufficient to meet the major challenges of a europe now made up of twenty-seven member states and, above all, half a billion european citizens. this lack of budget, compounded by the disengagement of the private partners who were previously involved in the galileo project, has exposed us to serious problems and has caused us concern. i am therefore glad that parliament has been heard this time after a very long battle with the member states in the council. this 2008 budget is indeed a victory for the europeans and a victory for parliament too, and i would like to express my sincere thanks to our rapporteur general, kyösti virrankoski, and to the whole team around him for the difficult negotiations they have conducted, as well as to president böge and the elected representatives and the administrative members of cobu. i am pleased that after hours of intensive negotiations we have reached an overall level of payment appropriations of almost eur 120 billion, corresponding to 0.96% of the union's gnp, thanks in particular to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument which will make it possible to increase considerably the cfsp appropriations under heading 4, with a particular effort in favour of kosovo and palestine. and then, to conclude, as a member of the committee on transport, i would like to join my colleagues in congratulating myself on the funds allocated to galileo, which is a major and indispensable project, enabling europe to maintain and also improve its position as a space power and to ensure our independence vis-à-vis the other countries of the world. it is a great success not only politically but also in terms of employment, attractiveness and above all the readability of the european construction for our fellow citizens: it is simply a great success for our future.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to welcome the interest of the annual report before us. this is a substantial body of work which gives us an exhaustive overview of the initiatives taken during a year, under two presidencies, to implement the union's human rights policy. of course, it is not a trivial matter. it is a practical tool and a reference document. however, i think mrs andrikienė is right, this report lacks a sense of perspective, analysis and critical thinking, and as a result, it does not draw conclusions from the facts it sets out, and therefore it lacks recommendations. the failures or successes of this policy are not sufficiently highlighted. i hope and i am sure that this will be the work of the members in the report which parliament will draw up in the spring. they will have to move in this direction. there are also some awkward silences in this report. the chapter 'ms ludford spoke about it' which is devoted to human rights in the context of the fight against terrorism fortunately ends with reference to the work of parliament on the cia flights and extraordinary renditions, but it says nothing about the council's inaction in terms of continuing the investigations, bringing those responsible to justice and even less about compensating the victims who have been unjustly transferred, imprisoned or tortured. similarly, the chapter on asylum and migration is silent on the massive violations of the rights of migrants; the commission has not yet taken stock of the implementation of the cascade readmission agreements, the quasi-militarised management of the borders, the thousands of people who are dying trying to reach our shores, even though the work of parliamentarians on these issues is consistent and regular. the report also fails to explain why our member states are putting themselves in a very embarrassing position vis-à-vis our partners and international law by refusing to ratify the convention on the rights of migrant workers and their families. our internal policy on these issues has consequences for human rights outside the union. i welcome the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights, which will help us to look at ourselves more wisely from now on, including in britain and poland. analysis of successes could also be useful to inform future strategies. mrs ferrero-waldner is right: the union's decisive role in the adoption by the un human rights council of promising and demanding labour mechanisms, such as the recent adoption of the resolution on the moratorium on the death penalty, must be analysed. an active presidency, a mobilized council, an aggressive parliament, tenacious civil society organisations and the emergence of europe as an effective global actor are very good news and very encouraging.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. dear colleagues, 'a new man of human rights has been born who has only the name in common with his ancestor of 1789', these are the words in which the philosopher marcel gauchet sums up the charter of fundamental rights which has just been proclaimed here and to which article 6 of the treaty of lisbon gives binding force. in many respects, as we know, the many rights it enshrines contradict the rights and freedoms protected by our national constitutions. european law is superior to national law, even constitutional law. what, then, is left of the principle of secularism in the face of article 10 of the charter, which states that freedom of religion implies freedom to manifest one's religion in private and in public? what will remain of the principle of equality in the face of articles 20 et seq. of the charter, which list victims' rights based on group membership? what is left of the principle of freedom, which is a right to self-determination, in the face of articles 6 to 19, which confuse it with rights of claim, the mere power to demand a benefit from others? we would like to accelerate the transformation of the citizen from an actor into a vulgar consumer, a passive provider of services, which is the only way to do it! to those of my colleagues who would be attached to the centuries-old rights and freedoms of their nation, protected by their constitution, i say only one word: wake up!
mr president, i am grateful for this report, but would like to point out that our human rights are still selective – they are politically correct. even in this house we could not hold a photographic exhibition on the atrocities in chechnya, because we were afraid that the russians would not like it. concerning our human rights dialogue with china, there was no mention of the 30 to 40 million girls who are missing, demographically-speaking, in china. where are those children? they have been aborted, murdered after birth or abandoned, or are in the hands of organised crime. therefore, next time, our mission should be to take up this matter with the chinese authorities. are things any better in the eu? i by no means want to make anyone feel guilty. all i am asking is for you to consider what the basis of humanity is. why do we point a finger – quite rightly – at those countries which have the death sentence when we also have a death sentence in the eu, with over one million children in the eu being murdered before they can be born? all i am asking is whether this is humane. can we build a sounder society when human life does not have an absolute value? our first mission is to defend the defenceless, those who are the most vulnerable. that is called real solidarity. this may not be politically correct thinking, but we have to ask where the values lie. are they negotiable? can human rights values depend on a majority reached one day, which may be a minority another day? to put it simply, the first human right is to be born. i am very happy i was born, and i am sure my colleagues are happy that they were born. by seeing the absolute value of human life, we can build a society of compassion and love. we cannot build a better tomorrow on sand that is wet from the tears of unborn children.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to the interparliamentary meeting between the pan-african parliament and the european parliament to highlight two points for which a common vision is needed, embedded in a common strategy. it's like love, it's not just words, it's actions and proof. so there are two points where we could implement a common vision to really fit it into a common strategy. the first, commissioner, as you mentioned, is budgetary control. we are called upon to control the output and therefore it is absolutely imperative, and it is up to us alone, to budget the edf in such a way that parliamentary control can be exercised. and what is, of course, an outlet for us, becomes a recipe for our colleagues in the african parliaments. it is absolutely imperative that they should be able to control, through national parliamentary control, what is a recipe and what, particularly in a policy of budgetary support, often becomes an important element and lever of their national policies. so it is high time we got moving so that we could budget this edf and give them, possibly by helping them, the means of budgetary control. the second point i would like to stress is the need for joint action within the framework of international humanitarian law. this right - and you have pointed this out, commissioner - is being flouted and trampled underfoot, which is totally unacceptable, and often for the rather surprising reason that it is because of war. international humanitarian law is a law that applies only in war situations, not in peace. so we can insist on this together, the european parliament and the pan-african parliament, that anyone who has ever violated this international humanitarian law, especially in a phase of conquest of power, cannot be excused, and that we can then, if necessary, exercise sanctions on those who have been guilty of it. but these sanctions will only be of real interest, will only be really perceived if they are relayed on the african terrain and if these kinds of passive complicity that we can sometimes witness cease. i think our colleagues in this house would be very honoured if we were to discuss this matter together.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr council representative, mr commissioner, i should like to start by saying that we attended two summits on behalf of the european parliament delegation: the pre-summit interparliamentary meeting with our colleagues from the pan-african parliament and the official summit meeting. mr president, i think you are not aware of the status we had there, that is to say, we had the degrading status of observers: the european parliamentarians, although they had done a good job before, were not allowed to attend the official summit. i would like to say that i believe that we as parliamentarians represent the peoples of europe, just as the heads of state or government do. so it would be good if we were also represented at the next summit. on the other hand, as regards the official summit, it was an excellent initiative and good news that it could take place after seven years of failed attempts. but i think the big lesson we have to take from this summit is that to see the african continent emancipating itself and organizing itself as an african unity, that's good news. and in this connection, i recall the discussion we had with the commissioner at our pre-parliamentary summit, when we were stressing the contradiction between the political expression of the european union's vision and new approach to its partnerships and the pressure exerted by the european union to sign the economic partnership agreements. i now ask the commissioner: what about these partnerships, these interim agreements which should be signed, because, nevertheless, i will remind you that the african countries have refused these kinds of agreements and this pressure. finally, commissioner, another matter, another matter of concern: the nuclear question. the question we as greens ask is: why have we opened a dialogue with african countries on the nuclear issue? african countries now need renewable energy. our technologies, solar, photovoltaic, wind, are really suited to africa. so why, when we know the difficulties that this entails, for example in iran today? why, mr vice-president, and the question i am asking is very important? i would like to know which country forced the european union to include the nuclear issue in the strategy? is that my president, vrp of nuclear power worldwide? this is absolutely incredible! africa needs renewable energy today!
madam president, in lisbon africa and europe have been talking politics at the highest level and that is very good news. i would like to make sure that they are speaking the same language, particularly on three key issues. first, an equal partnership. alpha konaré emphasized this in the rostrum: africa does not need charity or paternalism. and the lisbon declaration confirms this: we will develop a partnership between equals. but europe has often taken this commitment lightly or carelessly, imposing its own agenda whenever its interests were at stake: on terrorism, on migration and, now, on economic partnership agreements. then, a partnership of the peoples. we are also waiting for action on this matter. the new partnership must involve civil society and representatives of the people, i.e. parliaments, in an even more systematic way, in particular by supporting the capacities of african parliaments. that is the message of the joint statement of the european parliament and the pan-african parliament and i hope that this message will be heard. finally, on the issue of migration, europeans and africans had a real opportunity to send a strong political signal that would have put human rights at the heart of our partnership. i really believe that lisbon will have been, i fear, a missed opportunity on this point. the new strategy still places more emphasis on border protection than on the rights of migrants. europe will thus be able to continue, here and there, to flout the rights of migrants on its soil because, in fact, it has made very few commitments in its action plan on migration, mobility and employment.
in writing. i am pleased that we have reached a balanced agreement with the council. this should enable us to implement this text quickly, which is a definite step forward for the european union and passenger safety. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this extends the process started with the european blacklist, which allows each passenger to be protected in the same way regardless of the airport he uses in the community. before concluding, i would like to mention another point which i think is important. the recently adopted funding for galileo includes 50 million from the budget of several european agencies, including easa. i have always supported the galileo project, which is of particular importance for my region, and i am very pleased that we have finally reached an agreement on its financing. but i would like to stress that we cannot increase the capacity of an agency and reduce its budget. the easa must not be affected by this puncture.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament has approved, after some amendments, the proposal for a directive on the legal protection of designs. i regret that the text adopted provides, in the very short term, for the abolition of protection for designs, particularly for visible body parts of cars. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a serious accident. the european union regularly stresses the decisive role of intellectual property protection for the competitiveness of enterprises. for many years the institutions and the member states have been working to promote the adoption of community rules on intellectual property in the internal market. the present proposal is in total contradiction with this policy and will open a major breach in the community's protection of industrial property rights. this protection should not be denied to automobile spare parts or to many other complex products which are the result of original artistic creativity and considerable investment. contrary to what is claimed, but never established, the removal of protection for car spare parts would not bring any benefits to consumers. the benefit to the final consumer is not shown in terms of price/quality ratio. in fact, a study commissioned by the european commission shows that full liberalisation of the car parts market would not necessarily benefit consumers in terms of prices because of the number of intermediaries between suppliers of spare parts and the final consumer. the abolition of protection would in reality benefit only economic operators who would not have to bear the costs of creation and would not, unlike manufacturers who have to look after their image, have the same concern to respect the characteristics which the buyer believes he can expect from the product. the european commission's proposal could therefore encourage the production of lower quality spare parts or even indirectly encourage counterfeiting. for all these reasons, i regret the position adopted by the commission, and i have said so and i continue to support the two amendments tabled by myself and 50 of my colleagues which provide for a transitional period of eight years for the protection of designs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal is intended to allow companies other than manufacturers to manufacture spare parts and, in so doing, to reduce the price of parts and insurance. this is the idyllic presentation which was made to us a moment ago by the commissioner for the internal market. there is no evidence that these benefits for consumers will be real. the countries that have removed protection have not seen any obvious progress. the commission's own studies confirm this, and our rapporteur, klaus-heiner lehne, has just told us so. on the other hand, the abolition of intellectual property rights in many industries, not just the automobile sector, is directly contrary to the economic and commercial strategy of the european union. it is opening the door to counterfeiting, it is giving dangerous competitors, such as china or india, the opportunity to go into rampant production of these materials. this is the exact opposite of the lisbon strategy, which sought to make intellectual property the weapon of competitiveness and innovation. we would be giving our competitors the opposite signal to this strategy and that would be contrary to europe's interests in the context of globalisation. in the end, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is out of date. it is based on an ideological approach which, in 2007, is completely wrong, given that we are now engaged in a vital battle with the new economic giants for survival in our industry. this is no time to disarm! commissioner mandelson is going to beijing to force china to respect intellectual property and here, at the same time, we are questioning it. in sum, this proposal should be simply abandoned as unrealistic and irresponsible. now that we are engaged in the debate, we must behave like good legislators. that is why, at the very least, we support the rapporteur's compromise and call on our assembly to vote in favour of the amendment signed by 53 members and which provides for an eight-year transition period.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the next european council should be pleased to note the signing of the treaty of lisbon, which is due to take place tomorrow in the portuguese capital, and the proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights, which will take place here today, in a few moments. the european parliament has also called for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to be completed quickly so that it can enter into force on 1 january 2009. the lisbon treaty, as we have said, will provide the union with a stable institutional framework for the coming years, which will enable it to devote itself fully to the political challenges of the future, in particular climate change and globalisation, as was stressed at the informal meeting of heads of state and government on 19 april. in this context, the european council should adopt a declaration on globalisation. it will stress that in the face of the global challenges we face, the european union has both the opportunity and the responsibility to act. to this end, it is essential that the union should take advantage of its internal and external policies. i am thinking of meeting the objectives of the lisbon strategy for jobs and growth, of pursuing the ambitious energy and climate change package adopted at this year's spring european council, of defining a comprehensive response to the recent turbulence in financial markets, of promoting free trade and openness, of working with our partners to pursue strong and coherent development strategies, of developing a comprehensive migration policy at european level and of deepening the instruments and capabilities of the common foreign and security policy and also the external security and defence policy, in order to enable the union to play an increasingly important role in building a world that is a safer world. the european union must also help to ensure that globalisation is a source of opportunity rather than a threat and that it contributes to people's well-being. we also hope that a reflection group will be set up at the next european council with the aim of helping the union to assess and respond more effectively to the challenges of the next 20 to 30 years. the european council will take stock of progress made in the area of freedom, security and justice. we must mention, first of all, the abolition of internal border controls for the new member states, which is a measure of great significance and importance for the daily lives of our citizens. the implementation of migration policy and, in particular, the progress made in implementing the comprehensive approach to migration to africa and the mediterranean, as well as to the regions bordering the european union, the east and the south-east, should also be examined. in this context, the first euro-mediterranean ministerial meeting on migration was held, which was taken into account in the preparation of the joint strategy and action plan for the second eu-africa summit, as we mentioned yesterday. other aspects to be examined in the area of freedom, security and justice are the efforts to be made in the fight against terrorism, in particular with regard to radicalisation and recruitment, and progress in judicial cooperation. on economic, social and environmental issues, the european council will take stock of the work done in the relevant areas in preparation for the next cycle of the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, to be adopted by the spring 2008 european council. the discussion of the heads of state and government at the informal meeting in october sought to reinforce the external dimension of the lisbon strategy and confirmed that the revised lisbon strategy must continue to provide the appropriate framework for the main challenges facing us, in particular the challenge of globalisation. he also confirmed that europe was making progress and that the objectives set remained adequate, so the new cycle should, in its broad outlines, preserve the stability needed to consolidate results, although the pace of reforms should be accelerated. the european council will stress the need to deepen european competitiveness through the benefits of the single market, in conjunction with a sustainable industrial policy and the promotion of innovation and skills. the development of the external dimension of competitiveness and the improvement of the conditions under which consumers and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, operate will also be emphasised. in the field of employment and social affairs, the european council will confirm the agreement reached on common principles of flexicurity, emphasising the role of the social partners in the design, implementation and monitoring of relevant policies. the european council will also highlight the results of the european year of equal opportunities for all, inviting member states to intensify their efforts to prevent and combat discrimination. i should also stress the importance of pursuing the energy policy for europe set out by the spring european council. the progress made on the third package of the internal market for electricity and natural gas and the debate on the european strategic plan for energy technologies will also be highlighted. the european council will also review the implementation of the sustainable development strategy and is expected to conclude that the objectives and priorities under the seven major challenges set out in the strategy remain fully valid. it should also welcome the commission communication on an integrated maritime policy and invite the commission to present the initiatives and proposals contained in its action plan. as regards external relations, it is expected that the european council, on the basis of the discussions of the ministers at the last general affairs and external relations council, which took place on monday, will focus on the process of determining the future status of kosovo, in particular an assessment of the negotiating period. since, as you know, no agreement has been reached between belgrade and pristina, the european council is also expected to discuss the role which the european union can play in this process and the course of action to be taken to resolve this issue, ensuring the stability of the region and contributing to its rapprochement with the union. the european council will underline the importance of the various summits held in the last six months, in particular the summits with brazil and africa. the summit with brazil was, as you know, an unprecedented initiative and a first, and the eu-africa summit had very encouraging results, which i had the opportunity to highlight yesterday in this very house. finally, progress in relations with other regions, particularly the mediterranean, and in the field of development cooperation will be highlighted. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council conclusions reflect the results of the intensive work carried out this semester and demonstrate that the main objectives of the portuguese presidency have been achieved. the european union will continue to have a very ambitious agenda ahead of it. we believe that the next presidencies will continue to make progress towards a europe of higher growth, social welfare and sustainable development, strengthening its role globally and in its relations with its partners at bilateral level, but also at multilateral level. thank you very much, mr president. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the last european council in lisbon in october, we were able not only to reach political agreement on a new treaty, but also to launch a debate at the level of heads of state and government on the european interest and how best to promote it in the era of globalisation. tomorrow the treaty of lisbon will be signed and on friday the european council will begin its work, seeking concrete results for a europe which serves the citizens in the age of globalisation. i think it is important to stress the link between these two events. europe solves its institutional problems, but it does so primarily because it has the interests of its citizens in mind and because it also wants to project their interests and values on a global level. the two routes are, after all, two routes to the same goal. the signing of the treaty of lisbon is much more than a formality. it marks the agreement of 27 states on a treaty, but also marks their commitment to a common will for europe. it is undoubtedly a very powerful symbol of the way forward since the deadlock of 2005. the proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights, which will be made in this house in a few hours' time by the president of the council, the president of the european parliament and the president of the commission, is also a significant demonstration of how the european union wants to keep citizens' rights at the heart of its activities. the european council on friday will give us another opportunity to show a european union that wants to take a stand against globalisation. part of this positioning has to do with the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. the truth is that what we are consolidating now is precisely the external dimension of the lisbon strategy, it is essentially the idea that europe has to respond to globalisation with a proactive, confident stance and not with a desisting stance. just yesterday the commission adopted a major package of communications and decisions preparing a new cycle of the strategy for the period 2008-2010. mr president, the lisbon strategy is working: it is creating growth and jobs. we now have the best figures since the 1980s in terms of job creation. the lisbon strategy is helping to position europe and european citizens to succeed in the age of globalisation. the lisbon strategy has given europe a common, pragmatic economic agenda, fully respecting national differences. however, complacency would be fatal to europe's prospects of shaping globalisation. much more remains to be done: progress is uneven between policy areas, and some member states are moving much faster than others. yesterday's package responds to the need for europe to act, to face up to growing uncertainties in the global economy, and to the need for an even higher priority for the social dimension, education and skills, but also information and communication technologies, flexicurity, the need to have a common energy policy and to fight climate change. the declaration on globalisation that the european council is about to adopt fully recognises the role of the lisbon strategy. the declaration should set out our conviction that the union has every reason to feel confident about its future. today's european union is showing how the preservation of european political, economic and social values and the defence of european interests are fully compatible with a proactive approach to globalisation.today we are well placed to continue the internal reforms, to strengthen our ability to compete at global level and, at the same time, to maintain our values of economic and social cohesion and solidarity. today, we are well placed to provide the global vision that the world needs for a multilateral order, a system of collective security, open and fair trade and sustainable development, which respects the environmental balance of our planet. today, we are well placed to pursue european interests in the partnerships and in the relations with our allies and the world's other great powers. two weeks ago, together with the president of the european council, i was in china and india for the summits between the european union and these two emerging powers. it was fascinating to see the pace of economic development in that part of the world. we need to be attentive to what is going on in asia. it is true that economic development has helped to take millions of human beings out of poverty. i have no doubts their progress will have a direct impact on future generations of europeans. the crucial question is: what are we going to do in the face of such a structural transformation? we should have no illusions: globalisation also means deep changes in the world balance of power. the truth is that, not many years ago, here in europe, when people spoke about globalisation, they were thinking mainly about westernisation or, sometimes, americanization. today, when we in europe talk about globalisation, many people think, above all, of the growing, emerging economic powers in asia. so the world is changing, and i believe this is also making the need to adapt our common european project to the new challenges more obvious. that is why, today, there are conditions for accepting the declaration on globalisation that european union leaders will adopt this week. it is more obvious than ever that even the greatest powers of europe cannot tackle the challenges of globalisation alone. it is obvious that, more than ever, we need a strong european union. i believe that the rise of asian powers on the one hand and the awareness of the climate change challenge on the other are, in fact, two very important driving forces for the european union, because they show us that there is a challenge called globalization and that there is also an opportunity to seize it. therefore, i think that this week's european council will have a very important meaning and a great significance. some years ago it would have been impossible for european leaders to agree on the declaration on globalisation they are about to support. now it is quite clear that the goals of the european union are not just internal: the goals of the european union are also global. we need to promote our interests and to promote our values in the new global order that is emerging. that is why i think we can take very important decisions this week. we should do so with full confidence in our capacities, above all trusting the ability of european societies to rise to the circumstances. in particular, we should not forget that in europe we have impressive human skills, great traditions of knowledge and critical knowledge, the capacity to adapt. we have sophisticated scientific and technological knowledge. more importantly, we have free societies organized under the rule of law, and this gives us a great advantage in a world that is changing and changing fast. this is the european way of life. to preserve it and to improve it is our best investment. with the right policy agenda, we can face globalization with confidence. globalisation has specific challenges. one of these is mass migration, which is, to some extent, a new phenomenon in europe at least with the dimension it has taken recently. last week the commission adopted a communication on migration, which will be discussed in the european council. it stresses the need to see the issue in an overall perspective. it is, of course, central to our border controls and security, but it also has huge economic and social implications, and demands to be a central theme in our relations with partners worldwide. migration is close to the concerns and interests of citizens. it cannot be tackled by any individual member state on its own. as i have said several times, also in this house, it is completely absurd in a european union of 27 member states, where we have freedom of movement of people, to have 27 policies of immigration. we need to have a common approach to immigration, and we need to recognise that the problems some of our member states are facing should also be considered european problems. (applause from the left) we need an integrated policy, one which makes sense to european citizens, to immigrants and to international partners. the goal of our document presented to this council is to spark debate, first at the european council, but also in european societies, including, of course, this parliament, and launch a process leading to a comprehensive policy. by addressing an issue that is a central concern of european citizens, just one day after the signature of the lisbon treaty, the union continues its approach, one which is based on concrete results for europe and concrete results for our citizens. this is the right way to move forward, and i think this week's european summit can take us a step further in our wish and our will to shape globalisation and shape it with our values. (applause from the left)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon european council is the return of the europe of results, the europe of more. for european citizens, this council is about more freedom of movement and more integration. many institutional problems were resolved and two years of deadlock and uncertainty were coming to an end. tomorrow in lisbon, 27 signatures on the reform treaty will seal our common destiny: a european 21st century based on our shared values, on our prosperity, on our security and on our solidarity. we hope to be able to apply our new way of working as from january 2009. this is important because the provisions of the lisbon treaty will have an effect on the next european elections and, consequently, on the appointment of the president of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, the charter of fundamental rights is the significant innovation of the lisbon treaty because it clearly answers two fundamental questions: who are we? what are we doing together? the charter is an example of our shared values and is also the result of a consensus, namely unity in diversity. and if one neglects either of these two terms, one meets with the opposition and reluctance of the people. i hope that the spirit and the letter of the european charter of fundamental rights will apply in the widest possible european space, since it is true that this charter enshrines the membership of everyone in the european union and its link to a european community of shared values. the reform treaty also extends the scope of democracy by giving the european parliament greater power, establishing a fairer voting system in the council, giving an active role to national parliaments as guarantors of subsidiarity, and by bringing the citizen closer to the right of legislative initiative. this parliament will have more duties and responsibilities towards its citizens. this requires greater rigour on the part of our assembly, and also greater visibility. my group is prepared to make its contribution as a legislator and a source of ideas. i also support the proposal to set up a think tank. his role as a scout for the next 20 or 30 years is crucial. if we want to build a europe based on prosperity and security, on values too, and on shared solidarity, we must be able to think about the future of the european model of society. with ratification completed, we can focus on the demands of our citizens for more europe. and it is at the european level that we must address issues related to climate change, energy, immigration and security. the second decision to be taken in lisbon is more than symbolic. this is the extension of the schengen acquis to the member states which became members in 2004. freedom of movement is a sensitive issue, especially for citizens who have suffered under the yoke of occupation and who have been deprived of their freedom. living in a community of shared values is not compatible with making a difference between citizens moving within the european union. however, equal treatment also implies equality before the law. if these principles are ignored, social cohesion will not be possible and our peoples will turn their backs on europe. i also welcome the expansion of police and judicial cooperation between the member states. in an open europe, this cooperation makes it possible to combat effectively the scourges of human trafficking and illegal immigration. ladies and gentlemen, the european council on thursday is a step forward towards a more open, more democratic europe, capable of taking action. but a europe which guarantees unity in its diversity is also a factor of stability within its borders and of peace in the world.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have a wonderful event here. the president of the council and the council have been diligent, and you have given a wonderful contribution here. i'm not sure what the contents were, but the headlines were right. the commission's senior manager made it clear to us that the commission had accepted the challenges of globalisation. he said globalisation 87 times and challenges 82 times. so it must be true. then to the wedding that martin cares so much about. it's interesting, indeed, that the same bride is getting married for the second time. that's rare, even at the weddings you've always been to. only the bride has aged a little, she's more old-fashioned these days, less sexy than she was in rome. but this wedding is necessary. we're all in today. since i'm in today and i wasn't in today, it's gonna be okay. that's the difference. before i address two important issues, i should like to mention the surreal event hosted by the british prime minister in lisbon. he has discovered that a subcommittee of the high commission of the high commission is meeting in his parliament, and that is why he cannot be present at the signing of what he does not want to sign, but still wants to sign, but then he signs it at the dinner. it's surreal, but that's britain today. it's not my problem, it's your problem! i would like to address two serious issues. first, there is kosovo. there's a jewish joke that says, "when you have only two choices, always choose the third". we have two choices. we have a conflict if we do not recognise the independence of kosovo. if we recognise independence, we will also have a conflict, with kosovo or with serbia. we must now show firmly as the european union how capable we are of action, and not just how capable we are of speech. we need to develop an agenda 2020 to strengthen the rule of law in this region, an agenda together with kosovo, serbia and bosnia-herzegovina. we must strengthen the rule of law throughout this region. we need to develop an environmental and climate pact. we must develop a regional development plan, i.e. trans-balkan networks, with the perspective of accelerated rapprochement with the european union with the aim of integrating all these countries into the european union at the same time. the only way we can prevent conflict is not just to offer europe the bracelet, but to help it develop. it will be seen whether the 27 will not only be able to marry brides, but will also be able to take difficult children on board so that peace can finally develop in this region. it's really about the wedding night. the second point is equally dramatic: iran. the council will have to decide on that too. we can say that the threat of a nuclear bomb in iran is apparently no longer there, if we can believe american intelligence. we're all like little children, we always believe what we want to believe. if they say something we don't like, we say, "you're lying". when they say something that suits us, we say, "you're right". i don't know who's right, but i'd like it if they were right this time. but in iran there is not only the problem of the possible nuclear bomb, but in iran there is also the problem of freedom or its suppression. in recent years, there has been an incredible intensification of the oppression of the people of iran. i think europe has a role to play in this. it's not just about averting the threat of the atomic bomb. it's also about the freedom of the people in iran and how we help civil society to achieve that freedom. there are heads of government who think they are wise because they give wise advice and wise, do great things for europe. but to think that you can sell nuclear power stations to the whole world, whether to libya - a terrorist dictatorship - or to tunisia, algeria or morocco, and then find out at some point that everyone wants a nuclear bomb, that is hypocritical. the new york times yesterday wrote what we have all been saying for 30 years: those who use nuclear power for civilian purposes will eventually use it for military purposes if necessary. and we sell nuclear power plants to all the african, american and other countries and think we're wise. we're stupid for doing this. it should be said. (applause from the centre)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, the next european council will take place in the wake of the signing of a new treaty, in the wake of a particularly important summit between the european union and africa and also, let us not forget too quickly, in the first phase of implementation of the annapolis process. as regards the treaty, i think the union would be making a serious error of diagnosis if it considered that this summit agreement marks the overcoming of the crisis of confidence between whole sections of our society and the current economic and social orientations of the union. this problem remains, and it would be better to recognize it and prepare to respond to it. i think that a similar leap of lucidity is necessary in our relations with africa. the chairman of the african union commission, alpha konaré, called on europe to break with the paternalism. he stressed that africa, and i quote, "could not be a game to be kept or a new territory to be conquered". he said, and i quote again, that the logic of economic partnership agreements has a dramatic cost to the people of africa. significantly, it was on virtually the same day that seven latin american countries created the bank of the south to free themselves from the international monetary fund and reduce inequality in the region. the union must respond to this general demand for a fairer and more dignified partnership, including in its treatment of migrants. finally, the middle east, which is apparently not on the council's agenda. how could the union have accepted, in annapolis, to be completely excluded from the structure responsible for monitoring the implementation of the road map? will it stand by and watch the violations of the agreement, as was the case last week with the east jerusalem settlement? in general, what are our real ambitions for europe and what are the means we are giving to make it a reality? this is a favourite theme for the next european council.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the portuguese presidency. the signing of the lisbon treaty and the eu-africa summit will remain highlights of european history. but these magnificent successes should not be tarnished by what follows. i would like to express two concerns in this connection. the first concerns the ratification of the future treaty. the abandonment of the draft constitution and its replacement by an ordinary treaty means that, except in ireland, there is no longer any obstacle to parliamentary ratification in all member states. this is a key element of the political agreement reached at the european councils in june and october. if, in the meantime, a government has changed its mind, the minimum of loyalty to its partners is to inform them before the signing and not afterwards. i am sure, mr president-in-office, that the portuguese presidency will ensure that this basic loyalty is strictly respected. the second concern, which many colleagues have mentioned, is the situation in the western balkans. we have known for eight years that kosovo's independence is inevitable. and today, despite the considerable efforts of javier solana and the commission, we are as embarrassed as we were eight years ago. we have repeatedly said that the western balkans are destined to join the union. we intend to conduct a beginning of a common foreign policy. yet each successive eu presidency has only managed to pass the baton to the next presidency. it's not 1991. sixteen years and 300,000 deaths later, the countries of the union must show that they have learned the lessons of this painful past. the future of the balkans will not be decided in washington or moscow or even new york, but here in europe, between the peoples directly concerned and between european neighbours, friends and partners.
mr president, the year 2007, under the german presidency, followed by the portuguese presidency, will go down in the history of european integration as the year of the most gigantic contempt for the peoples and democracy. the treaty to be signed tomorrow in lisbon is neither simplified nor consensual. it is simply a return to the constitutional treaty rejected by the french people. most of you, and mr giscard d'estaing, are very happy about this. i therefore want to address the most solemn warning to my french colleagues who support this new constitution. these provisions create a new state. this state is imposed on our people against their will, so it will not be legitimate. this has a clear but terrible consequence: the institutions of the european union and the acts which they enact must be considered illegitimate. we are therefore about to be charged with an imperative duty dictated by the law of nations, namely, the duty of disobedience. i have nothing more to say.
i just want to say a word. i was very shocked this morning, too. we are in a democratic parliament and we do not need to make noise to attract the television cameras as we did this morning. communication here is for everyone. i would simply say to the people who caused the commotion this morning in a house where democracy and freedom reign, that what they have done is not worthy. we shall discuss this again this afternoon at the conference of presidents, so that it does not get worse. (applause from the left)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like, on behalf of my staff and, i hope, on behalf of my whole group, to condemn in the strongest terms the anti-european, chauvinistic and unworthy demonstration we witnessed this afternoon. (applause) my group is certainly in favour of a referendum on the new treaty and has questions and doubts about certain articles of the charter. but what happened this morning had nothing to do with that and there must be no confusion. we are for a community of values, we are for the promotion of fundamental rights, we are for a europe of democracy and there is no room in our ideal for chauvinism and indignity! (applause from the left)
i think it is unnecessary to add that we, like all our colleagues, were quite shocked by what happened. but i would like to say to my colleagues: 'don't get too dramatic! if there are fifty lunatics in a room, there are seven hundred people who are against them and don't make a big deal about it because there are fifty mentally retarded people who have disturbed what was going on just now". let's just calm down, calm down, and, graham, let's not ask for their physical release. i believe that a free parliament is one which tolerates madmen, even if they are unpleasant. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, in the request for waiver of immunity and the request for expulsion from parliament, i was quoted. ladies and gentlemen, learn the names of the members first and then you can speak again.
in writing. in the lehne report on the legal protection of designs, i decided to support and co-sign an amendment proposing an eight-year transitional period before a global liberalisation of intellectual property rights on spare parts which are used to give the original appearance to complex products, such as motor vehicles. at present, the impact studies have not shown a significant price decrease for these parts for consumers in the member states where liberalisation has been achieved. moreover, it seems to me that the european union is acting against its interests in this matter. other parts of the world are protecting their industry with industrial property rights and the european union, which is also showing its will to protect consumers and to fight against counterfeiting, is not making the right choice here. the economic equilibrium of the automobile sector and the safety of european citizens are at stake.
in writing. the proposed directive on the legal protection of designs proposes the total liberalisation of the market for spare parts, particularly in the automobile sector. the rapporteur's text largely modifies this proposal by introducing, in particular, the possibility for member states to maintain their legislation on strict design protection for another five years. by preserving the manufacturers' monopoly on the manufacture of spare parts, the aim is to avoid the relocation of community jobs to countries such as turkey, brazil or korea, where production is carried out at lower costs and with lower quality. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of south africa. since spare parts are manufactured without any responsibility on the part of the car manufacturers, there is no a priori guarantee of the conformity or quality of the spare parts. the main objective must be to protect and safeguard users, above all economic and political considerations. after the postal services, railways, energy and electricity, brussels is now tackling the car industry. the logic of ultra-globalist and ideologically driven liberalisation knows no bounds. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. i welcome the general approach of the report which revises in depth the european commission's proposal, which included a massive grubbing-up of 400 000 hectares of vines. this position did not take into account the social realities of the profession and would have led to the development of wastelands and a deterioration of landscapes. the report considers that the removal of trees is a potentially interesting measure; it will be offered on a voluntary basis. another positive proposal is the possibility of implementing restructuring measures in the sector. the european wine sector needs strong and competitive operators to face international competition. the commission's contribution to crisis prevention is necessary but not sufficient. in view of the variability of production, the proposed operations will only mitigate fluctuations. there is a lack of a genuine crisis management system, which is updated in relation to current measures. finally, i regret the absence of any indication on the label of the use of enrichment by the addition of sucrose, which would have allowed clear and transparent information to be given to the consumer.
in writing. the commission wants to make the vine-growing people of languedoc-roussillon, of the occitan cross, disappear on the red background of a century of revolt from 1907 to 1976, from marcelin albert to andré castéra, this people who go from the rhône to the garonne, to install on these lands the pensioners of anglo-saxon europe, the tea drinkers who will take the place of the men of the grapes and wine in the minervois, the corbières, the costières or the vines of the picpoul. a crime against civilization! and all this is done behind the false pretence of overproduction, when the whole truth must be told. there are 150,000 hectares of illegal vineyards in spain and italy. we must pluck these vines of injustice; the overproduction is in fact an over-import of 12 million hectolitres per year; the pacific plants the vines we pluck; and when china drinks... the world will run out of wine.
in writing. my colleagues and i have overwhelmingly approved giuseppe castiglione's report on the wine cmo. i have supported four amendments which i consider to be fundamental to the preservation of the european wine sector, and more particularly that of burgundy and franche-comté, but also to the improvement of its competitiveness. i voted for amendment no 271 which opposes the european commission's proposal to end the use of captalization. it is essential to maintain the wine-growing traditions of chaptalization in force in many regions of europe, including burgundy and franche-comté, of which i am the elected representative. i also supported amendments nos 33 and 223 which oppose a total liberalisation of planting rights as from 1 january 2014: it is in the interests of wine growers to wait until the grubbing-up scheme is over to see how effective it is before considering liberalisation. finally, i voted for amendment no 107 which aims to maintain the wine benefits. i am generally satisfied with the amendments voted by parliament and i have supported this report and i hope that it will be able to exert a positive influence on the agriculture council from 17 to 19 december. the interests of our regions are at stake.
in writing. terrorism is a common threat to the security of all eu citizens, more than ever before. the epp-ed group has therefore made the fight against terrorism one of its priorities for action and has called for a resolution to this effect. the proposed resolution stresses the difficult but necessary balance between security and respect for individual freedoms. in our european democracies, it is necessary to ensure that the instruments put in place in the fight against terrorism are proportionate, so as not to compromise the individual freedoms of each citizen. however, it must not be forgotten that the european union's primary objective is to defend the right to life and security of every european citizen by preventing and combating terrorism. it is regrettable that many provisions, particularly disproportionate and sometimes unjustified, have upset the balance of this text. despite the amendments tabled by our group, the text finally adopted in plenary does not conform to the spirit and the line we are defending in this area, which is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. epas should not be limited to free trade agreements in the sense of the wto, and should not put the already fragile economies of overseas communities in difficulty. these agreements must be a genuine partnership, creating a new economic and commercial framework which is conducive to the development of all the territories concerned. i thank the members of the european parliament for adopting my amendment, which recalls that overseas communities are at the heart of these preferential and reciprocal agreements with the acp countries. the special situation of the outermost regions must be taken into account more consistently in these negotiations, on the basis of article 299 (2) of the treaty. in addition, the octs neighbouring acp countries must also be given special attention, in compliance with the association agreements already binding them to the union, pursuant to article 299 (3) of the treaty. although the current discussions are difficult, particularly as regards the protection of local markets and the list of sensitive products, i ask the commission to find compromises which respect the specific interests of the octs and the overseas departments concerned.
for the greens/efa group madam president, we are having a discussion today with mrs ferrero-waldner, and i welcome that. however, at the 10th eu-china summit held in beijing on 28 november, the european union was represented by its president, the commissioner responsible for external trade and the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs. so it is true that since 2000, trade between the european union and china has increased by 150% and that it is, unfortunately, much less easy to produce statistics on the worsening human rights situation in china. there is nothing taboo about discussing human rights issues alongside trade issues. everyone can see the connection between these and, for example, freedom of association, the ability of workers in china to mobilize, to demand better working conditions. this general attitude is deplorable, especially as it is leading us astray, whereas the 2001 decision promised china's openness and progress in the field of human rights and democracy. the chinese people are waiting for this promise to be fulfilled and they are calling on us. his aspiration to open up through the organization of the games is denied and this leaves a deep taste of bitterness. not only have the games so far been an opportunity to reinforce a policy of increasing repression, but even worse, the organisation of the games itself has perverse effects and is a pretext for serious violations. i am thinking of forced expropriation or exploitation of migrant labour. this is not surprising when we learn from dissident hu jia that the head of the beijing security bureau is also the one in charge of organizing the olympic games in beijing. perhaps we will finally find a way to be surprised and denounce it when the measures of intimidation and repression are even more drastically targeted at foreign journalists, which has already begun, because they are already prevented from working. the arrest, for example, of two agence france-presse journalists on september 12 shows that the regulations introduced in january 2007 are only applied occasionally, and only to the extent that the subjects covered are not inconvenient for the regime. the commitments made by china remain unfulfilled and its efforts to break them go as far as the establishment of blacklists. there is now a blacklist of 42 categories of people considered persona non grata during the olympics, from the dalai lama to falun gong to dissidents of the regime. in january this year, negotiations for a new eu-china framework agreement were launched. we welcome this, because a new agreement also means a new clause on human rights and democracy. this means a new space for exchanges on human rights with the chinese authorities. however, 2007 was also the year in which the legal seminar preparing the "human rights" dialogue was cancelled because the chinese authorities refused the participation of two ngos, including the well-known human rights activist sharon hom. the union's firmness at that time was entirely salutary. at the same time, of course, it raises the question of the continuation of such seminars. our position is that we must do both. it is very important to continue to organise legal seminars. at the same time, we cannot accept the dictates of the chinese authorities on participation in these seminars.
mr president, here is yet another report on the alleged rise of extremism in europe. the council, the commission, the political groups - they have all come, they are all here. as usual, this rhetoric is intellectually worthless, politically outrageous, morally perverse. intellectually, it was null, because all the new ideas - in religion, christianity, which some of you dare to claim, in politics, liberalism or socialism, in science, ideas today as obvious as the roundness of the earth or its rotation around the sun - were considered extremist, heretical, subversive, unacceptable. it's not enough to demonize an opinion to discredit it, you have to say how it's wrong. the political scandal is caused by you, by you who are in power and who, instead of solving problems, are displaying a fighting programme of the opposition. you are thus revealing your inability to solve the problem of immigration-invasion of which you are either deliberately or through cowardice, the viscous collaborators. you are admitting your economic failure, your social failure, your cultural failure, your moral failure, your educational failure and, instead of changing your political catastrophe, you are thinking only of eliminating those who protest or criticize you. but it is morally that your attitude is most repugnant. you fraudulently equate acts of violence or terrorism with the legitimate reaction of the peoples of europe against the destruction of their identity. you guys are such truffles! you want to muzzle these peoples and deprive them of political representation: you are the pharisees of democracy! as the scripture says, whitewashed tomb, all painted white on the outside. you talk about human rights, freedom of expression, european values, tolerance, but all of it is just a corpse and rottenness inside. you have a mouth full of these rights, and you deny them to those who don't think like you. all of this would be hideous if it weren't grotesque. the next generation will judge you as the barbarians who betrayed rome. may the barbarians at least treat you as you deserve.
mr president, racist acts and crimes are on the increase in europe. roma, migrants and all those who are different continue to face multiple discrimination in the areas of employment, education and housing. we want a european union based on humanist values of tolerance and protection of fundamental rights. in this context, the framework decision on combating certain forms of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law, which our parliament voted overwhelmingly for on 29 november, is really necessary. we will thus be able to combat racist and hate speech in the same way, everywhere in the european union. extremist parties exploit fear of the other, fear of the foreigner to offer an easy answer to the challenges posed by globalisation. and those who claim to impose national preference to find answers to everything are irresponsible. the real answer to the challenges of globalisation is a global take on the challenges facing humanity today. and withdrawal, let's not be afraid to say, is a path to disaster.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this very worrying issue of the rise of extremism in europe, the whole of the european institutions must indeed mobilise to stop the development of these extreme right-wing movements, which are all the more dangerous as the values they convey are increasingly accompanied by violations of human rights carried by a racist ideology. such a drift within the union itself is unacceptable! in line with the text of the written declaration and the resolution tabled by the pse on this subject, the commission's action must therefore be twofold in my view: positive action to seek, in collaboration with the member states, appropriate political and legal solutions, on the one hand to condemn violations of human rights and, on the other hand, to carry out preventive action, in particular for young people, to make them aware of the fundamental values of the union. in addition, we must commit ourselves to ensuring that no european fund can be used by an institution or body which promotes values or language which incites xenophobic and racist violence. i would like to mention the specific case of radio maria in poland, which applied for european grants, even though its positions are notoriously inconsistent with the principles of human rights. i therefore take this opportunity of the commission's presence here today to ask again that no european credit be given to media which are a platform for the dissemination of racist ideas and whose impact on the population is vast and potentially very dangerous.
member of the commission. mr president, once again we have the opportunity to discuss this serious health threat in the european parliament. it was only a few months ago that we had the opportunity to discuss the community action plan regarding this health threat. our concern does not, of course, relate only to the european community, but also to the whole world. we are concerned with the rise of infections, with the number of people who are affected and living with hiv worldwide, and the number of 33 million people, for us, is too high. therefore, we want to take action within the european union but also coordinate with all the other international players outside the eu to tackle this issue globally. this also matches the new european community health strategy, which includes a global role for the european union in the area of health. areas we can concentrate on: first of all, to prevent infection – this is very important. at the same time, to make sure that testing is available, and treatment and care where needed. to achieve all this, we need to raise awareness, and this is a very important factor; this is something where we are lagging behind – i will come back to that in a minute. but also the social stigma. this is one of our major concerns, and in a way this works as a vicious circle, because the social stigma prevents people from wanting to test themselves and learning whether they have been infected, and therefore, they could infect others. they do not seek treatment and do not get tested, with all the negative effects. this is more worrying among young people, and this is our main concern and target. our studies and polls show that, among young people, there really is a lack of knowledge – one could say there is ignorance when it comes to these health threats. so it is important to show to them in a balanced way, in a way that presents information and on the one hand does not create panic but on the other hand does not lead to complacency, that it is a serious disease; there is no cure for it, but they can protect themselves – and they can be shown how to do that – and at the same time that they should not be afraid of fellow citizens who have the infection, who have the disease. we have seen two extremes from the eurobarometer. some young people think that there is nothing to worry about: you take some antibiotics and it goes away. on the other hand, just by touching infected people or even sharing a glass with them or through a kiss one can catch the disease. so we see two extreme views regarding this health threat, and neither deals effectively with our aim, which is to control the spread and further infections. world aids day is an important day and gives us an opportunity to discuss and raise awareness; but we should not limit ourselves to this one day, and that is why i am happy that, within the european union at least, we will be discussing these issues continuously. but when it comes to young people, we have to remind ourselves that we had very active, very effective, very aggressive campaigns in the 1980s which managed to reach the goal of raising awareness, but then we stopped and we forgot that a young generation, a new generation of young people became sexually active after the end of those campaigns. in fact, some of them were born just before the end of those campaigns, and they did not benefit from those awareness-raising initiatives that were taking place then, and that is why we have the results i have just mentioned. we know that, through simple messages, simple methods, role models, celebrities, opinion leaders, giving a good example and explaining the situation, we can achieve the awareness that we would like to achieve. this year, our initiative was to propose to the health ministers of the european union that we would all go simultaneously into schools and discuss these problems with young people on world aids day, to see what they know, tell them what we know, and have an exchange of views. we had a positive response: more than half the member state ministers followed that approach. we went into schools – i also went – and it was an eye-opener: the debates and discussions with young people, understanding, first of all, what they know or do not know about this disease, and also some practical problems. they know, for example, that the use of condoms is the best protection, but at the same time, how can they get them? they are too embarrassed or they are worried or they are shy. so we see some practical effects that we never thought were problems, never thought we would have to face in europe. but they are still there. also, because we want to talk to young people in language that they understand, the commission this year took the initiative of producing a new tv spot addressing the prevention of hiv transmission. this was done through a competition among young people, and the best one chosen, the winning entry, was by a polish student. we produced that, and it was broadcast by several tv channels and was also used in the school visits. this is an important strategy which we must follow: we have to talk to young people in the language they understand. but, as i said earlier, the challenges arising from hiv and aids are present well beyond the european union boundaries. it is true that, worldwide, there has been some good progress in terms of access to hiv-related services, especially low-middle-income countries. now, about 95% of people infected with hiv live in those countries. thanks to an unprecedented increase in international funding in these countries, the number of people receiving treatment has considerably increased, from 100 000 in 2001 to 2.5 million people in 2007. these are impressive figures; nevertheless, more than 70% of people in need of arv treatment in these countries do not receive it or do not have access to it. this shows that we still have a long way to go. the european action is financed through a wide array of financial instruments both at national and global level, such as the global fund, for example. there are also other financing mechanisms through public private partnerships. progress has been achieved through these joint efforts with the international community, but we still have a long way to go, and this requires strong cooperation among the european institutions. as i said at the beginning, our principal goal is to bring the number of new hiv infections down and work towards the best possible solutions in terms of support, treatment and care for those who are already living with hiv/aids. i therefore want to emphasis this once again: fighting the stigma – the social exclusion, the discrimination of the disease and people suffering from it or being affected by it – is very important and unless we do that we will never be able to control the situation. to do that, we need to raise awareness campaigns and increase them. this is why the motto of the european commission in this action against aids is ‘remember me’, because it is a forgotten disease at all levels, or at least it has become one. we will now bring it back to the forefront; but it is not just for the citizens, to remind them of the existence of this disease, but also for the decision-makers, to make sure that they put it back at the top of the political agenda and take all the necessary actions. in this respect i am counting – and i know i have it – on the support of the european parliament.
mr president, yes, aids is killing too many people. he has done too much, he is still doing and he will do too much. unfortunately, many children will be infected before they are born. the figures are alarming, they've been quoted and i'm not going to go back on them. unfortunately, aids is increasing in the member states of the european union and also in third countries, and to combat this new wave of the epidemic, it is essential to strengthen prevention, treatment, care and support, and through partnerships, which are absolutely essential. in addition to prevention, we must facilitate access to information, facilitate access to counselling, treatment and social services. we must reduce the negative impact of this disease, because unfortunately it is still a taboo disease that we dare not speak about freely. so to achieve this, it is important to mobilise resources and research, to coordinate efforts, to finance specific projects. only if all actors work together to establish an effective partnership can we make a meaningful and lasting contribution to stopping this epidemic. what is striking is that young europeans today have not followed the effective prevention campaigns that we had in the 1980s. european societies must take responsibility and provide young people with the information they need about hiv and aids. the latest opinion polls show that young people are shockingly ignorant of the disease. fifty-four percent of young people in the former member states of the european union believe that one can contract hiv by drinking from the same glass as an infected person. this highlights the need to raise awareness and invest in prevention and information on condom use. and how much is this condom? it also shows that we must not stop along the way, forget this old disease. we need to have the right messages of awareness. messages that are probably better suited. we're making an effort right now. we need to spread more modern messages that really reach the young. until recently, hiv counselling and testing was primarily done on the patient's own initiative, for reasons of ethical considerations. in retrospect, it can be seen that this approach has been hampered by the lack of availability of services and by the fear of stigma and discrimination. in poor countries, the voluntary nature of testing is a serious obstacle to the fight against the pandemic. what is the real capacity of poor, uneducated patients to formulate informed consent? how could someone who's never heard of the virus give consent? and what is the benefit of getting tested if one lives in a country without social security? recent surveys in sub-saharan africa show that only 12 percent of men and 10 percent of women have had a test and received the results. we must not let our guard down because the danger is still there!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aids remains one of the scourges of the 21st century, despite the exceptional efforts of the international community over the last 20 years, even if at times the guard has been lowered. i would remind you that the seventh item on the list of millennium development goals, adopted in september 2000 at the un, was to stop the spread of aids by 2015, and that by that date the current trends had begun to reverse. the current situation in developing countries, particularly in africa, where the number of people dying of aids has continued to rise, requires that we redouble our efforts to achieve this goal. in this respect, european intervention can be oriented around several axes. firstly, the strengthening of cooperation, particularly with the local authorities in the south, which are the only ones capable of proposing lasting solutions for the reception of the sick, for prevention, for the supply of medicines, for the implementation of information and prevention measures and for the overall management of health services adapted to the needs of the local population. secondly, solutions must be found to address the shortage of health workers in poor countries. europe must intervene through concrete programmes with the necessary funds to enable these professionals to practice their profession in their own countries under appropriate conditions and in adequate structures with essential equipment and medicines. finally, long-term action against aids is inseparable from a firm commitment to facilitate access to affordable medicines for people in developing countries. as many patients in developing countries have already developed resistance to the first generations of treatments they have received, it is essential to provide mechanisms to ensure that the latest therapies are available in the generic version in these poor countries. i therefore take the liberty of calling on the commission, particularly in the context of the ongoing negotiations on bilateral and regional agreements, in particular epas, not to include any provisions which could limit the ability of the countries of the south to use all the flexibilities provided for in the trips agreement and the 2001 doha declaration in order to protect their patients. i'm finished. the unacceptable situation of these millions of people who die of aids every year requires the european union to take responsibility. we must not just say it, we must do it.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, i thank the rapporteur for the text he has proposed. i agree with many of mrs kauppi's remarks. we started to look at this text before the summer and i think that those who thought it was timely have been comforted by what has happened this summer. what happened this summer has raised the question of guarantee systems. we cannot live in a system where many market players are cross-border players, or with deposit guarantee schemes which are not at least harmonised or, at any rate, developed on the same basis, and this is due to competition but also to trust in market mechanisms. i was very struck, during my various trips this summer, which did not concern only the nordic countries, by the question of the guarantee system, which was systematically put to me as a crucial question. of course, i know the answer from the commissioner's services, which is to say: 'but, after all, if you add up all the guarantee systems at european level, you have only a tiny fraction of the sums needed to deal with crises.' this is not a sufficient argument to respond to the handicap in terms of competition and in terms of confidence in the market mechanisms, especially since it leads to perverse effects in the strategy of companies which, as a result, arbitrate between subsidiaries and branches on the basis of the wrong reasons. with all these elements in mind, i asked my group for support. my group tabled an amendment asking the commission to speed up its work and to take account of the expectations of the citizens, who do not express this as a priority and strong demand, but who ask to be reassured about the mechanisms of the european financial markets and the correctness of their mode of intervention. a good deposit guarantee system at european level could only help. i believe, commissioner, that it is your responsibility to assess the state of confidence in the functioning of financial markets at european level. it seems to me that we cannot simply wait for further studies in this respect. you must make things happen faster and we can move forward on a more harmonized basis, with a more transparent and clearer reading of the deposit guarantee mechanisms as they operate at the level of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, i thank the rapporteur for his text. in this document we deal with recurring topics. for example, what are the barriers between institutional, professional, and private investors? some people want to believe that there is some sort of "great wall of china" between the two. i don't believe it, and recent events have shown us how financial innovation spreads from class to class and eventually reaches the final saver. so the fiction of legislation which is entirely built on the existence of two types of investors - informed and professional investors on the one hand and investors who are small savers on the other - is in my view dangerous. there is a gradual shift in products and we know it well. that notion may exist but we must deal with it with lucidity. the second point i would like to raise, which is also found in other texts on financial markets, is that of investor information. of course, it is essential that everything is done about it because the complexity of financial innovation is a new element that has not been taken into account and has not been addressed until now. but that is not enough, it cannot replace the responsibility of the distributors of products and i think that needs to be recalled. thirdly, commissioner, i think you have failed to articulate the implementation of the mifid directive with the ucits directive. is it normal that mifid has been implemented in the member states even before its articulation with the ucits directive is known? i think we would be in a better balance if it had been otherwise. the rapporteur referred to the taxation issue in terms of merging funds. i think that we should not forget the problems also in terms of product placement, which can be hampered by obstacles of a purely fiscal nature. finally, i would like to come to the socialist amendment, because the reality of the market for these products is not the same depending on whether one is addressing a country which produces such products, a country which consumes them or a country which is both a producer and a consumer. we have introduced the idea of reciprocity which would not only apply to the opening up or access to markets, but also to the nature of regulation and supervision. i think this is an absolutely essential element because the idea that a country outside the european union which only produces such products could access our markets on any terms on the grounds that we would have access to its market, when it would not be of interest to any european consumer, does not seem to me realistic, or it seems to me a theoretical argument which is not acceptable. the rapporteur sometimes tells us that reciprocity would be contrary to wto rules. but, commissioner, what did we do when we agreed to rules of equivalence with the united states? that's exactly what we're asking you to use here. finally, this would not be realistic, since we would not have harmonisation within the european union. well, if the negotiation of equivalence with third countries could lead us to define a common level of regulation and supervision within the european union, i think we would have made very great progress.
mr president, on this point i agree with what mr corbett has said. i would just like to add that i was here this morning at the sitting to hear the group chairman, mr bonde, apologise for what happened yesterday to the bailiffs. what is unacceptable is that we are attacking, with words or phrases, i would not even say too strong, but frankly disgusting - excuse me for the term, but i use the same language - the staff of our parliament, which has only done its duty as the president and the presidency asked it to do. i see that there is no official apology, so we will have to take the necessary measures to defend the staff of parliament. that's why i'm here this morning.
mr president, commissioner, two years ago, following the lifting of quotas, the textile sector experienced a real big bang. to try to remedy this crisis, you, mr commissioner, are advocating transitional but palliative measures, with the ambition of controlling and limiting imports of certain chinese textiles. in a few days' time these safeguards will no longer exist and trade in textiles will be subject to the watch of a european union-china joint eye, which i hope will be attentive and vigilant. our concern today is how this joint surveillance system will be put in place. what guarantees do we have to ensure that this double control will be adequate and effective? the textile sector has always been a globalist sector in terms of both production and consumption, but it has suffered the consequences of a certain degree of globalisation. but this globalisation can be anticipated and regulated. this requires the political will to create a competitive environment for our european textile industries. we must move towards fair and reciprocal market access conditions. we must continue to use the trade defence instruments at the disposal of the european union without fear, because protectionism is not protectionism. we must make the fight against counterfeiting our priority. the europe of tomorrow will not have any industry if we do not defend its intellectual property rights and know-how. the application of the same rules of the game by all and for all is the only way to offer all parties involved a win-win scenario. i therefore hope that in 2008, mr mandelson, we can look together in a more serene atmosphere at the promising future of the textile sector.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, with just a few weeks to go until the end of the negotiations on the memorandum of understanding providing for restrictions on imports of chinese textiles, it is essential that the european parliament adopt a strong position on the future of its textile sector, whose structures and methods of organization are threatened by brutal competition with china. the joint resolution we are proposing today calls for a clear commitment from the european commission and the member states on several points. firstly, to ensure that the enterprises and workers in the sector, which are facing the risk of major restructuring, are fully supported by adequate social measures and by the allocation of european funds to support the modernisation of their production structures. secondly, we must work to strengthen the competitiveness of the european textile sector within the broader framework of a strong and ambitious european industrial policy. this objective cannot be achieved unless we turn words into action and invest heavily in research and development. moreover, faced with unfair competition from some of our competitors, who base their comparative advantages on social or environmental dumping or both, europe needs effective trade defence instruments. this greater efficiency will not be achieved by hasty reform, which would weaken the union's means of protection, but by a more transparent and predictable use of existing instruments. finally, europe must make the euro-mediterranean partnership the foundation of an integrated production area which takes advantage of the proximity of the mediterranean countries to be more competitive on the international textile market. the development of the mediterranean countries with which we wish to establish a stronger partnership depends on our ability to offer them concrete commitments on policies and areas of activity of common interest.
mr president, when i spoke in this house on the same subject in july 2005, i said that the lessons we would learn from the textile crisis would ultimately help us to maintain and develop other sectors of the european economy. i think we've made some progress, but not much. we are always calling for more research and development and for the commission to ensure that intellectual property is respected. these are important but not sufficient factors. i am thinking that instead of being a factor for increased trade and economic development, the wto and its rules are a brake. trade is obviously a source of growth, but to do so it must go both ways. the textile question reflects two fundamental problems: the absence of an industrial policy in the union and the question of the european interest. as regards the european interest, i welcome the commission communication entitled 'the european interest: meeting the challenge of globalisation' published at the beginning of october, which states that 'our basic rules must not compromise our ability to protect our interests or our ability to maintain the high standards we apply to products to ensure the protection of health, safety, the environment and consumers'. we will not tolerate third countries wishing to operate in the european union circumventing the rules applied in the internal market. commissioner, let us start by applying these principles to the textile industry!
mr president, i should first like to thank mr david martin for the quality of his report. in the context of the negotiation of this future trade agreement with korea, we must remember that our priority must remain multilateralism because we know that the excessive proliferation of bilateral agreements is detrimental to the regulated multilateral structure to which we belong. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. the future free trade agreement with korea must be modern and include binding environmental and social standards such as those enshrined in the ilo's fundamental conventions on promoting decent work. furthermore, following our parliament's commitment to allow greater access to generic medicines, i welcome the inclusion of public health provisions and the respect of our wish not to include in bilateral agreements requests that would limit our partners' ability to make use of the flexibilities provided for in the atypical doha declaration agreement. however, despite its positive aspects, it is unacceptable that this text does not refer to the fate of workers in the free zone of kacacsong, as our rapporteur wished, and i regret this.
before voting begins, mr schulz will ask for the floor to recall the rules of procedure.
i have here before me this pile of papers which gives you an idea of the work we still have to do this morning. some colleagues, however, asked to speak. i do not wish to open a very long debate. mr daul asked to speak, mrs muscardi asked to speak, and i'm giving them one minute. (brouhaha) i know.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, i will be very brief. i was in the chamber at nine o'clock this morning, waiting for an apology for the personal attack on the bailiffs. i didn't find any and i filed my statement this morning at nine o'clock so i'm not going to do it again.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, are there any other group chairmen, i say 'group chairmen' because i am not going to give the floor to every one of the 785 colleagues on this subject, who wish to speak? i don't see a group chairman, so that's closed. (applause) for my part, i will simply add what a poet said, that the most beautiful hymns are sung under bombs. i think that what we heard here yesterday was, in that respect, wonderful! (applause) mr salafranca would like to speak on another subject.
i think, mr salafranca, that the applause of the members of parliament shows you, of course, that the house supports your statement. it will be transmitted. mr pirker's last request for a procedural motion, and then we shall move on to the vote.
i think we have covered all the points we wanted to address before we tackled the votes. the agenda now calls for votes. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i comment on the outcome of the adoption of the european union's 2008 budget, let me say that today is a particularly grateful day for me, not only as a european but also as a portuguese. i am referring, of course, to the historic event of the signing of the treaty of lisbon, which will take place in just over an hour in the capital of my country. after the enlargement of the european union to 27 member states, this is another decisive step in the construction of a europe that will make it more democratic, more representative, more agile and more effective in its functioning than ever before. let me give you a brief preview of the portuguese presidency's achievements and highlight three important successes for the future of the european union. i am referring to the agreement which makes it possible to sign today the treaty reforming the european union, the treaty of lisbon, the european union-africa summit and the european union-brazil summit. we have now also been able to add an important event, namely the agreement we were able to reach on the financing of the strategic project which is the galileo programme. ladies and gentlemen, today you have the second reading of the 2008 budget, the last stage of a long negotiating process which has nevertheless ended very successfully. i am pleased to note the agreement reached between our two institutions at the conciliation meeting on 23 november, which fully considered all the proposals we had agreed on that date in the 2008 budget. in accordance with the procedures, i should like to point out that the council can accept the maximum rate of increase resulting from your second reading. i would point out, however, that some minor adjustments are still needed in the classification of expenditure, on which the council reserves its rights. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to express once again my gratitude to the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr reimer böge, to the two rapporteurs, mr virrankoski and mr itälä, to my colleagues in the council, to commissioner dalia grybauskaite and to all those who have contributed to the successful conclusion of this very demanding budgetary procedure, which has culminated in this act of approval by this parliament.
mr minister, you have said, among other things, the sentence i was expecting. i therefore note that the budgetary procedure has been completed in accordance with the provisions of the treaty and the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. i also note that, under article 13 of the interinstitutional agreement, the council and parliament agree to accept the maximum rate of increase in noncompulsory expenditure which will result from parliament's second reading. the budgetary procedure can therefore be declared completed and the budget definitively adopted. (applause) you know that our president is currently in lisbon where there is a small signing ceremony. my powers as vice president end here. the official signing of the 2008 budget will take place on tuesday, 18 december, in the plenary in brussels.
all this will be forwarded to the competent authorities.
before we proceed to vote on the final report, let me dedicate this final vote to a colleague who will be leaving us in a few days' time and who has done a fabulous job for us here in the european parliament and for europe as a whole. this is, of course, jean-louis bourlanges. (applause) jean-louis, i think the warmth of the applause says, more than any other speech, how much we're going to miss you. all our wishes go with you.
in writing. the paradox, if not the entire hypocrisy of the european parliament, is that it loudly proclaims democratic principles and values while largely flouting them by refusing to apply them when it does not suit it. this was the case yesterday when the european parliament, meeting in plenary, solemnly proclaimed the charter of fundamental rights in a general chaos, thus ignoring the objections from the sovereignist benches who were calling for a referendum on the adoption of the new constitutional treaty. the european parliament discredits itself by refusing to discuss and by stigmatising its own elected representatives who are concerned with the preservation of national identity and sovereignty. freedom of expression is only valuable if political opponents can also benefit from it. the right-thinking political groups seem to think that there is an illegitimate speech that must be prevented at all costs. while parliament is committing itself by demanding the charter of fundamental rights, the elected representatives of the national front are loudly reaffirming that they do not share the same conception of human rights and that they will continue their fight for respect for the sovereignty and identity of the nations of europe.
in writing. the national front, vlaams belang and fpoe are not extremist, racist or xenophobic parties. in a spirit of unhealthy and false amalgamation, all the so-called "well-thinking" parties are endeavouring to brand them as extremists simply because they are concerned with promoting the preservation of national identity. democracy is in danger, but the culprits pre-designated by the system are not the right ones. it is not those who criticize and challenge policies, especially immigration, who are accused of being extremists. no, it is those who systematically muzzle freedom of expression in the name of human rights and political correctness and who in reality only mask their failures to solve the immigration, insecurity and identity issues they face. by increasing the number of laws to combat extremism in europe, parliament could have taken pride in its contribution to the maintenance of democratic principles and values. unfortunately, this is not the case, and far from targeting radical islamism or totalitarian communist regimes, parliament is once again indulging its anti-national and globalist obsession.
in writing. it is astonishing how hemiplegic the european parliament can be: it only looks to the right! the various resolutions proposed by the pse, the liberals, the greens and the communists only consider extremism from the 'far right' point of view. what about radical islamists and trotskyists and communists of all stripes? not once are these extremes targeted. it is an insult to all the victims of totalitarian communist regimes and to all those who suffer daily from the dogmas and practices of radical islam. the european parliament does not condemn these extremes. they simply do not exist because they do not participate in the standard terminology of political correctness that is in force in this chamber. in a spirit of respect for the principles and values of democracy, equality and tolerance, the socialist group does not hesitate to 'welcome the dissolution of the far-right group independence, tradition and sovereignty' before calling for stricter conditions governing the formation of political groups in parliament. the leitmotif of these elected officials is to systematically demonize their political opponents in order to impose their well-thought-out thinking on everyone. these resolutions are thoughts of hypocrisy, blindness and obscurantism. we will vote against it.
in writing. the enlargement of the european union commits us to solidarity with the people of the 431 000 km2 of the black sea. this solidarity is expressed in the 'agreement to open negotiations with turkey', the implementation of the 'neighbourhood policy' with georgia and ukraine, and the 'strategic partnership' with russia. the violence of the storm brings us back to the effects of climate change. and in our neighborhood. they require a risk management policy that integrates both prevention and protection of biological diversity. the storm had trapped four ships and killed eight sailors. a russian cargo ship had also broken in two, releasing 4,000 tons of fuel oil on a migratory route for diving birds from siberia. the european union has set up a team within the monitoring and information centre. this initiative must be completed. to prevent future disasters, the eu must ensure that high safety standards are systematically applied to the russian cargo fleet. the eu must impose on its russian partner that oil be transported by double-hulled cargo ships. the time has come for the bisec parliamentary assembly to call for the application of the european standards of the european maritime package.
in writing. massive imports, the perverse role played by a strong euro against a deliberately undervalued foreign currency, social and environmental dumping, counterfeiting, piracy, dangerous products, the existence of non-tariff barriers which affect european products: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the trade relations with china. why, then, did you accept china's accession to the wto? we voted against it. why do you refuse to see that liberalizing trade with countries which have decided not to respect the rules - liberalization which you never question - leads only to economic disaster and social disintegration in regions and entire sectors? why did you agree to the end of textile quotas and the unemployment of tens of thousands of european workers? you are concerned about this today, but you only talk timidly about possible trade defence, possible safeguard measures and joint export controls. it's not enough. it's not enough. but that's it. so even if this resolution has no more effect than a plaster on a wooden leg, we shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. the textile sector in france and europe since the end of the multifibre arrangement has turned some of our regions into economic and social deserts. there is now precariousness and poverty for thousands of women and men who have lost their jobs. the destruction of these enterprises, of this social fabric, in the name of globalisation and europeanist ultra-liberalism, is the symbol of one of the european union's greatest economic failures. for years this logic has led to the relocation of our production, even of the best quality, in all other economic sectors to other countries in the world: north africa and especially asia. this global rebalancing has in reality brought nothing to third countries, except the aggravation of economic slavery for the benefit of a small elite within the chinese factory and the permanent establishment of unemployment in europe against the background of a persistent economic crisis. it is clear that the global competition encouraged by the wto is the main reason for the widespread impoverishment and lack of european dynamism. it is urgent that the european union should put an end to this madness and finally put in place community protection and preference.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, today this parliament is celebrating a europe on the move. the treaty of lisbon is signed. its ratification has begun. i congratulate hungary, the first of our member states to do so. with the lisbon treaty, our shared values of democracy, freedom and solidarity and our objectives of peace, security, environmental protection and prosperity reaffirm our common destiny. yes, the treaty of lisbon gives our union greater cohesion. our integration process, which began fifty years ago, continues: always united in diversity! it is this diversity of origin, culture and language which is europe's true wealth and which the treaty of lisbon enshrines. inclusion is the strength of a pluralistic europe. we, the legislators, have a duty to explain to our fellow citizens. let's make this simple. the european union and the nation-states are together. they have a shared competence. they decided to share some sovereignty. let us ask europe what it is competent for and let us ask the nation state what it is competent for. for its part, my group will continue to campaign for the lisbon treaty and the european charter of fundamental rights, which seals our shared values. i hope that this will be explained, understood and, above all, respected by all, and that this treaty will also be supported by the greatest number of our fellow citizens. from 2009, the new institutional framework provided for by the lisbon treaty will increase the powers of this parliament. it is important to know that as from june 2009, the results of the european elections will determine the composition of this parliament and will have a bearing on the appointment of the president of the commission. needless to say, my group intends to convince the vast majority of our fellow europeans to vote for a epp-ed leadership, a leadership capable of leading a socio-economic strategy to respond to globalisation and population ageing, a leadership capable of investing in research and development, developing a european area of justice and security to better combat crime, illegal immigration and terrorism, a leadership capable of making the right choices for the protection of our environment, sustainable development and our energy independence, a leadership capable of leading a foreign policy that allows europe to speak with one voice. this is the basis for the competences of a united europe and of future governance, and european governance. that is what is needed today in kosovo to maintain peace. peace and stability in the balkans, on the doorstep of the union, is the business of europeans. but good european governance is also good governance for the medium and long term. and we support the decision of the european council to set up a think tank to measure the future impact of decisions taken today here, in the heart of our democracy, to seek answers to the challenges facing a united europe in ten, twenty or thirty years' time, to reflect on the union's development strategies. and only strong governance can break down the reluctance and opposition to the fight against global warming. the bali report is a striking example. europe needs to take a leading role on climate issues, first in poznan in 2008, where the next climate negotiations will take place, and then in copenhagen in 2009. we have a great responsibility here as european politicians. it would be a crime to mortgage the future of our children and grandchildren. it is up to us to convince our american partners of this. climate and good european governance are also on the agenda today, here in brussels, where the ministers for agriculture and fisheries are meeting for their annual marathon of discussions on production quotas. let us not overlook the impact of climate change on food production. we have already seen a sharp rise in food prices last august. here is another one involving wheat and rice, with prices never reached. here too, european citizens expect europe to respond and to take concerted and coordinated action. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have built 50 years of peace, we have succeeded in creating a single market, we have abolished internal frontiers, we have a central bank and a european currency, we are working on a common foreign policy from amsterdam, we have europol, eurojust. we are creating an area of security and justice by extending and deepening schengen. the demand from europe is stronger. the treaty of lisbon brings the union out of the negative spiral it was in. for me and my group, the construction of europe in the 21st century is once again becoming synonymous with enthusiasm and ambition. from a free trade area to a genuine political europe, we are talking again about the european project and we are ready to make choices. in this new globalised world, there is no room for everyone to be by himself. our member states, no matter how large or populous, have no chance of achieving prosperity unless they play the game of integration. thank you to the president of parliament, thank you to the president of the council, thank you to the president of the commission, happy holidays to us all, and above all, our best wishes for the adoption of the treaty in 2008 for the other 26 countries. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, we have just heard a lot of self-congratulations. but i think that a european council at the end of the presidency should logically also be an opportunity for the heads of state and government to critically assess their action in the light of the challenges to be faced. such a check-up is all the more necessary as the financial crisis rages, as the global warming movement is leading to a showdown with an uncertain outcome, and as the international community tries to revive a peace process that is supposed to resolve the most iconic conflict of our time. about the financial crisis, first of all. for once the truth is coming out of the mouth of a financial times columnist, martin wolf. what is happening is a huge blow to the credibility of the anglo-saxon model of financial capitalism, he writes. when will the european council become so lucid? more generally, is it the time to fan the flames of free competition at the expense of social guarantees and trade union rights, as illustrated by the two appalling judgments of the court in the viking line case and, more scandalously, in the vaxholm case? is the union planning to meet the challenge of globalisation by plunging into the spiral of social uncertainty? do you think that europeans will accept this unraveling of their achievements in the name of the market and the grail of competition? you are making yourself comfortable, mr barroso. a poll doesn't tell you how to trust a person any more than a swallow in the spring. about the weather, then. europe is taking the lead in this fight and the emission reduction targets set by the 27 are indeed moving in the right direction. but what about concrete measures, since industrial lobbies are weighing on the decisions of the highest bodies in the union? we shall have a better idea of this tomorrow when the commission presents its new standards for carbon dioxide emissions from cars. finally, aid to palestine. good for the financial commitment, provided of course that it is kept. but where is the political commitment of the union? when will the clear demands for the lifting of the 550 military roadblocks, the end of the siege of gaza, the effective freezing of settlements in the west bank, the release of prisoners, the end of humiliations? when will the self-censorship of the occupier end, in the words of the report by mr de soto, the former united nations representative in the middle east? these are three of the many areas in which the credibility of the european project is gained or lost.
